While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
The euro < EUR = > was up 0.67 percent against the dollar at $ 1.1784 after rising to a three-month high earlier in the session above $ 1.18 .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Poland has finished assembling a 9,200-strong multinational stabilisation force it will command in central and southern Iraq , Defence Minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski said on Wednesday .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
" That obligation to pay rent continues unabated notwithstanding the heinous attacks of Sept . 11 and the destruction of 1 World Trade Center , " the suit says .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
BaFin and the head of the principal finance group , Robin Saunders , were not immediately available to comment .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
Pratt & Whitney had said that 75 per cent of the engine equipment would be outsourced to Europe , with final assembly in Germany .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
A key question was whether France , which infuriated Washington by leading the charge against U.N. authorization for the war , would vote " Yes " or abstain .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
Claudette , the first hurricane of the Atlantic storm season , hit the mid-Texas coast July 15 with 85-mph wind .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Aileen Boyle , a Simon & Schuster spokeswoman , declined to comment on any potential legal action .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
Hurricane warnings were posted Friday along parts of the lower Texas coast as Tropical Storm Erika sped across the Gulf of Mexico and headed for landfall .
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX climbed 10 points , or 1.10 percent , to 943 .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
At the hearing yesterday , High Court Judge Frank Kapanda ordered the men immediately released on bail , evidently unaware they had already left the country .
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
AutoAdvice is available as a one-year subscription at $ 400 per CPU , scaling from one to 50,000 CPUs .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Tony Blair has taken a hardline stance arguing nothing should be done to lessen the pressure on Mugabe at the gathering in the capital Abuja .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
Tenet has been under scrutiny since November , when former Chief Executive Jeffrey Barbakow said the company used aggressive pricing to trigger higher payments for the sickest Medicare patients .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
" This is not a scaled-down version of the Oracle Enterprise Edition or Standard Edition [ database ] .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
Rumours swirled among market participants that Japan may have intervened overnight when the yen appreciated to 116 per dollar .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
Both bidders agreed to assume about $ 90 million in debt owed on the planes .
While Mr. Qurei is widely respected and has a long history of negotiating with the Israelis , he cannot expect such a warm welcome .
" Let 's show we won 't let them off , " said Marc Blondel , leader of the Force Ouvriere union .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Health Minister Peter Coleman said about 300 people had been killed and 1,000 wounded in the past few days .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
Friends of Animals president Priscilla Feral said she would spend the weekend considering the possibility of further legal action .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
The vulnerability affects Windows NT 4.0 , NT 4.0 Terminal Services Edition , XP and 2000 , as well as Windows Server 2003 .
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The rats that consumed the tomato powder had a 26 percent lower risk of prostate cancer death than the control rats , researchers found .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
Mr Howard said he also had faith in the system under which Hicks could be tried .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
BOB HOPE , master of the one-liner and Americas favourite comedian , died with a smile on his face yesterday just months after celebrating his 100th birthday .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
The statewide unemployment rate fell to 6.4 percent , down from a revised 6.7 percent in August .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
Bolivia 's army fought to stop columns of protesters from streaming into the food-starved capital on Wednesday as a popular uprising against the president spread .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Utah 's median household income also took a hit , falling 1.8 percent , from $ 48,875 to $ 47,978 .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
The conservancy helped in the purchase of the land from the Estate of Samuel Mills Damon for $ 22 million .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC lost 4.95 points , or 0.33 percent , at 1,486.14 .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
The three chains have replaced most of the 70,000 striking workers with temporary employees to keep their stores open .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
On Wall Street , trading resumed with some glitches from the blackout that continued to affect parts of New York City .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
" Deviant cannibalistic tendencies " were the primary motivation for the murders , and Brown 's body was mutilated , authorities said .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" He really left us with a smile on his face and no last words , " daughter Linda Hope said .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
" We 're just dealing with bragging rights here , who wins and who loses . "
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 98.30 , or 1.1 percent , while bond values fell , too .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
Kodak earned 85 cents per share excluding one-time items in the quarter a year earlier .
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
Beagle 2 is attached to Mars Express by what is known as a Spin-Up and Ejection Mechanism ( Suem ) .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
A senior law enforcement official , discussing the case on grounds of anonymity , identified the suspect as Ahmed Mehalba .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Daniel C. Clark and James Hargadon ; a former priest , Bruce Ewing ; and two teachers are awaiting trial .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The manufacturers include Fujitsu Ltd . , Mitsubishi Electric Corp. , Motorola Japan Ltd . , NEC Corp. , Panasonic Mobile Communications Co . Ltd . , and Sharp Corp.
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Less than 20 percent of Boise 's sales would come from making lumber and paper after the OfficeMax purchase is completed .
" We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has improved significantly since our last decision to lower interest rates , " Duisenberg said .
The Washington Times first reported yesterday that Army Capt. James .
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Likewise , the 30-year bond US30YT = RR slid 23 / 32 for a yield of 4.34 percent , up from 4.30 percent .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
The redesigned Finder also features search , coloured labels for customized organization of documents and projects and dynamic browsing of the network for Mac , Windows and UNIX file servers .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
In Britain , temperatures threatened to top the 37.1 C ( 98.8 F ) all-time high .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Shares of Genentech , a much larger company with several products on the market , rose more than 2 percent .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
The teen was in critical condition with life-threatening wounds , police said in a news release .
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The parents want her kept alive ; her husband says she never wanted to be kept alive artificially .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
The legislation , which now goes to the full House , would amend the state 's 1988 corporate takeover law .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
The government identified the alleged hijackers as Francisco Lamas Carón , 29 , Luis Alberto Suarez Acosta , 22 , and Yosvani Martínez Acosta , 27 .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
Altria shares fell $ 1.17 to $ 42.51 and were the Dow 's biggest percent loser .
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
Three Federal Reserve speakers and the Fed 's anecdotal summary of U.S. economic conditions could help firm expectations .
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
Shares of Tampa-based Outback Steakhouse Inc. closed at $ 44.50 , up $ 1.78 , or 4.2 percent , on the New York Stock Exchange .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
He was then given leave to appeal against the sentence to the Supreme Court of Appeal .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
" We haven 't decided whether to use an unbroken or dotted white line , but this is an experiment worth introducing , " said David Richardson , the ICC 's cricket manager .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
By 2040 , the county 's population is expected to be 985,066 , compared to the 2000 population of 860,454 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
" And if that ain 't a Democrat , then I must be at the wrong meeting . "
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Only 29 families of frogs are known and most were identified and described in the mid-1800s and the last in 1926 .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
Rep. Dan Gelber , D-Miami Beach , argued that the freeze is for only a few months .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
Both were declared dead about 6 p.m. at Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said he would fight any extension of the cable 's use .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In early afternoon trading , the Dow Jones industrial average was up 7.58 , or 0.1 percent , at 9,381.79 .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In early U.S. trade , the euro was down 1.06 percent at $ 1.1607 < EUR = > .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
After hours of debate , the Senate passed the reform package 32-4 .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
In 2002 , the West Nile virus infected 4,000 people and took 284 lives in the United States .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index stood at 53.7 in September .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
The company 's shares fell 3.6 percent to close at $ 66.89 on the Nasdaq .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Attorney John Barnett , who represents Morse , showed photos of a scratch on Morse 's neck and the officer 's bloody ear .
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
The group expects to roll out the first products by the second half of 2004 .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
Darren Dopp , a Spitzer spokesman , declined to comment late Thursday .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
The dollar 's slide against the yen was curbed by wariness that Japanese authorities could intervene to stem the yen 's rise .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
But he will meet the French President , Jacques Chirac , privately .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
In the United States , 20.7 percent of all women smoke .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The 30-year bond US30YT = RR grew 1-3 / 32 for a yield of 4.30 percent , down from 4.35 percent late Wednesday .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 16.95 , or 1.1 percent , to 1507.76 , its first slide in five days .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Island Def Jam must pay $ 52 million in punitive damages , and Cohen must pay the remaining $ 56 million , the jury said .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
Yang would dine on shredded pork with garlic and kung pao chicken washed down with Chinese tea , state media said .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
The benchmark 10-year Bund yield was down 5.2 basis points at 3.60 percent .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
US Special Forces troops are training Colombian soldiers at military bases in the region to protect the pipeline , which transports crude from Colombia 's second-biggest oil field .
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
" I started crying and yelling at him , ' What do you mean , what are you saying , why did you lie to me ? ' "
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
The Mariners torched Randy Choate and Juan Acevedo in the eighth for four runs and a 12-5 bulge .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
Other retailers that will be affected are Argos , part of GUS , and privately owned Littlewoods .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Although they no longer get the glory , desktop PC exceeded IDC 's shipment expectations in the second quarter , Kay said .
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
She had been barred on the grounds that her headscarf would violate the state 's neutrality in religion .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Justice Clarence Thomas , joined by fellow conservative Justice Antonin Scalia , dissented .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
Results from No. 2 U.S. soft drink maker PepsiCo Inc . ( nyse : PEP - news - people ) were likely to be in the spotlight .
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Peterson told police he fished alone in San Francisco Bay on Christmas Eve , returning to an empty house .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
The 30-year bond US30YT = RR dipped 14 / 32 for a yield of 4.26 percent from 4.23 percent .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
His birth on 4 May is revealed today in the journal Science .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Since being drafted into service in 1971 , it has racked up a record 45 accidents , with 393 deaths .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Negotiators talked with the boy for about an hour and a half , Bragdon said .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
Police official S.K. Tonapi told Reuters at least 40 people had been killed and more than 100 wounded .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
PFP Legislator Kao Ming-chien ( ) , the fifth Taiwanese expert invited by the WHO to join the conference , will arrive in Malaysia today .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
An animal rights group waited Friday to find out if it has succeeded in putting a stop to a state-sponsored program allowing hunters to shoot wolves from airplanes in Alaska .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
The battles marked day four of a U.S. sweep to hunt down supporters of Saddam Hussein 's fallen regime .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Negotiators talked with the boy for more than an hour , and SWAT officers surrounded the classroom , Bragdon said .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Seven people were taken to hospital today after a second derailment on the London Underground in less than 48 hours .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
A month ago a military C-17 transporter returned to Baghdad when an engine exploded .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
The court then stayed that injunction , pending an appeal by the Canadian company .
At first , the animals ’ performance declined compared to the sessions on the joystick .
Think Dynamics , which is based in Toronto , will become part of IBM 's Software Group .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
There are more surprises than you can possibly imagine , " Gov. Gray Davis told reporters at a campaign stop in Compton .
Both figures were below consensus expectations , but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain , fueling a dollar rally .
Sentenced to 20 years to life , she was granted parole last month despite the opposition of relatives , friends and colleagues of the slain men .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
The man , who entered the post office in Lakeside shortly before 3 p.m. , gave up to deputies about 6 : 30 p.m.
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Peter Smith , a planetary scientist at the University of Arizona , leads the $ 325 million Phoenix mission .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
" This is extraordinarily fast , " said Matt Geller , an analyst at CIBC World Markets .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
A New Castle County woman has become the first Delaware patient to contract the West Nile virus this year , the state 's Department of Health reported .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
The MPx200 , which will sell for $ 299.99 , is now available through AT & T Wireless ' mMode service .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
The Thomson First Call consensus was for earnings of 19 cents a share .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Companies that fall under that definition are subject to much less stringent regulation .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
They cover more than 300,000 UAW workers and 500,000 retirees and spouses .
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
The benchmark 10-year note US10YT = RR slipped 16 / 32 in price , sending its yield to 4.48 percent from 4.42 percent late on Thursday .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
McNair was stopped after a police officer saw his vehicle weaving on a downtown street before pulling into a convenience store , the arrest report said .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
Graves reported from Albuquerque , Villafranca from Austin and Ratcliffe from Laredo .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sales at Ford fell 0.1 percent while sales at DaimlerChrysler rose 7 percent .
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
Rosenthal declined comment on the Garrett situation Tuesday but said in a statement : " We had a big contract negotiation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index gained 16.02 points , or 1.62 percent , at 1,004.63 .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Stock Markets composite index added 1.16 points to 1,504.04 .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
A monthlong grace period in New York City ended May 1 , and now bars and restaurants that allow people to puff can face hefty fines .
She has also signed a contract with Random House to write two books .
She said he persisted and she eventually allowed him to fix her bike while she sat in the front seat of his car .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
The street-racing sequel " 2 Fast 2 Furious " won the pole position at the box office , taking in an estimated $ 52.1 million in its opening weekend .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
At 5 p.m. EDT , Henri had maximum sustained winds near 50 mph , with some gusts reaching 60 mph .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
Songs can be burned to CDs , but the same playlist can only be burned up to five times - Apple 's puts the limit at ten burns .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
Californias rate was 6.4 percent , down from a revised 6.7 percent in August and also down from the 6.7 percent posted in September 2002 .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
Dos Reis is scheduled to be sentenced in Danbury Superior Court this morning on charges of first-degree manslaughter and second-degree sexual assault .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI fell 86.56 points , or 0.94 percent , to 9,109.99 , after giving up more than 1 percent earlier .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
He said the Senate has confirmed 124 judicial nominees since Bush took office and " I don 't see much broken . "
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
U.S. forces recently apprehended some 40 suspected foreign militants near the Syrian border and are now interrogating them .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
The contractors convicted last month , Brian Rose , 36 , and Joseph Quattrone , 35 , are to be sentenced in January .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
I thought things went a bit overboard but I prefer to leave it on the field , " Sarwan said .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Maria de Jesus Quiej Alvarez and Maria de Teresa Quiej Alvarez did not leave the private jet during a stop for customs inspection at Brown Field .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Nine traffic deaths were blamed on the storm in North Carolina , Virginia , Maryland , Pennsylvania and Washington .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Mr. Limbaugh told his audience , which numbers 22 million listeners a week .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
If convicted , they face up to five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine on each of the 11 counts .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
" This is very serious , " said Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
" If it ain 't broke , don 't fix it , " said Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle , D-S.D. " I don 't see much broken . "
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
Gyorgy Heizler , head of the local disaster unit , said the coach was carrying 38 passengers .
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
The dead woman was also wearing a ring and a Cartier watch .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
Lawtey is not the first faith-based program in Florida 's prison system .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
FBI spokesman Steve Lazarus did not immediately return a phone call for comment on Friday .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
Responding later , Edward Skyler , a spokesman for the mayor , said , " The comptroller 's statements , while noteworthy for their sensationalism , bear no relation to the facts .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
Australia 's view on Zimbabwe " will not be changing , irrespective of the views of other countries , " he said .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Oak Brook , IL-based McDonalds is expected to launch several hundred restaurants by year 's end .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
" These are defining moments for players and organizations , " Anaheim coach Mike Babcock said .
The 3 { hours of recordings include conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as well as media inquiries .
Russia had closed checkpoints on parts of the border with China and Mongolia until June 4 , Itar-Tass news agency said .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
Scribner 's body was found floating in the city 's Portage Bay , where he lived with his wife in a houseboat .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
This was around the time Congress was debating a resolution granting the President broad authority to wage war .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
He was also expected to visit Yemen and Bahrain during his tour of the region .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The calculation shows that the number of deaths from pneumonia and influenza have exceeded the usual number for recent weeks .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
Martin , 58 , will be freed today after serving two thirds of his five-year sentence for the manslaughter of 16-year-old Fred Barras .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
Already suffering with the nation 's worst credit rating , the state is operating for the first time completely on borrowed money .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
Sony Ericsson also said it would shut down its GSM / UMTS R & D center in Munich , Germany , to increase profitability .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
The woman felt threatened and reported the incident to police , and around 2 : 30 p.m. Stackhouse was arrested .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
It reports a mailing list of 50,000 and support from about 500 congregations and 50 bishops .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
In December , he anticipated growth of 5.3 percent to nearly $ 154 billion .
An Associated Press report is included .
Cubs manager Dusty Baker sees his slugger struggling .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
In addition , it offered the United States and Israel a way to work around Mr. Arafat .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
While a critical success , Luhrmann 's opulent production of the Puccini opera will end with losses of about $ US6 million ( $ A9.2 million ) .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
French special police raided a farm in Corsica on Friday , capturing the top suspect in the 1998 murder of France 's highest official on the Mediterranean island , officials said .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
More than 400 people have been killed since August , including Afghan and foreign aid workers , U.S. and Afghan soldiers , officials and police , and many guerrillas .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
The festival kicked off yesterday one day after the Competition Commission delivered its final verdict to the Government on the proposed £ 4.1 billion merger .
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
" High-tech scam artists who think they can hijack the Internet should think again , " Ashcroft said .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
AMD will own a 60 percent interest in the new company and Fujitsu owns 40 percent .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
The state 's population was 6,080,485 in 2000 , according to the U.S. census .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Inflation-index bonds are carrying an interest rate of 4.66 percent .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > was off 4.86 points , or 0.49 percent , at 993.82 .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
Shares of Corixa fell 12 cents to $ 6.88 as of 3 : 59 p.m.
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
Gillespie sent a letter to CBS President Leslie Moonves asking for a historical review or a disclaimer .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
He had performed outside Cuba on several occasions , including shows in the US last year and in Brazil , South Africa and several European countries .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas told a news conference Monday that authorities were ``continuing to make significant progress ' ' in the case .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Their worst-case scenario is the accidental deletion or malicious falsification of ballots from the 1.42 million Californians who could vote on electronic touch-screen machines .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
ISC and NASCAR officials declined to comment .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
Under NASD regulations , Mr. Young can file a response and request a hearing before an NASD panel .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
With the power back on , state workers headed back to their jobs Friday morning .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Wells Fargo and Quicken Loans couldn 't be reached for comment Wednesday afternoon .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
Niels told an interviewer in 1999 he thought the Old Man would outlive him by many years .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Staff writers Selwyn Crawford and Colleen McCain Nelson and Brian Anderson of DallasNews.com contributed to this report .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
Associated Press Writer Curt Anderson at the Justice Department in Washington , D.C. , contributed to this story .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
The state wants to lower wolf numbers in approximately a 1,700-square-mile area near the village of McGrath .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
Gates dismissed the challenge from open-source programs such as Linux , which is gaining adherents in the public and private sectors .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
WorldCom 's financial troubles came to light last year and the company subsequently filed for bankruptcy in July , 2002 .
" The company has always made , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority , " the statement said .
A federal judge ruled that the monument violated the law and ordered it removed .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
The National Transportation Safety Board has subpoenaed Gansas , arguing his immediate testimony remains critical to its investigation .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
He urged patience from Americans eager for the service , which is intended to block about 80 percent of telemarketing calls .
Nvidia shares lost 58 cents ( U.S. ) or 3.46 per cent to $ 16.20 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Total sales for the period declined 8.0 percent to $ 1.99 billion from a year earlier .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
It will cost about $ 20,000 per eight-week course of treatment , comparable to other injected cancer therapies , a spokeswoman said .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
The nine largest airlines had $ 75.4 billion in revenue last year .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Whoever is selected will report directly to Robert Liscouski , the assistant secretary of homeland security for infrastructure protection .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Sen. Bob Graham , Florida Democrat , raised $ 2 million after getting a late start .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
AMD 's chip sales jumped 7 percent year-on-year to $ 402 million .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
The civilian unemployment rate improved marginally last month - sliding down to 6.1 percent - as companies slashed payrolls by 93,000 .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
Prosecutor Jim Hardin called the decision a victory for Kathleen Peterson 's family .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC lost 2 points , or 0.18 percent , to 1,649 .
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index < .SPX > was up 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
" This man gambled with our lives and we , the passengers , lost , " said Andres Rivera Jr . , who was also on the bus .
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Shares closed on NASDAQ just below their 52-week high , at $ 32.17 , up $ 1.54 .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Mr McDevitt has been granted control of three crucial aspects of policing in the Solomons .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
Hundreds of reporters and photographers swamped the courthouse grounds before the hearing , which was carried live on national cable networks .
" The question that has to be penetrated is , how did 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation ? "
Democrats argue they are not constitutionally required to redraw the lines , and that proposed maps would disenfranchise minorities and rural Texas .
This is just the latest movement in a continuing trend towards open source support of business applications .
He was arrested Tuesday night at a northwest Atlanta tire shop after a national manhunt .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
The ministers also intend to initiate plans for a national centre for disease control .
