The decision is likely to force the industry to take the more costly and less-popular route of going directly after file-swappers.
Expatriate New Zealander Stephen Richards, formerly global head of sales at Computer Associates in the US, has been indicted on charges of securities fraud conspiracy and obstruction of justice, along with former CA chief executive Sanjay Kumar.
LONDON : The euro approached its record high against the dollar as markets waited nervously for data on US capital flows, amid concerns about how the United States will fund its huge trade deficit.
A European Union judge has summoned all sides for a closed meeting today to consider how to handle the decision by two major opponents of Microsoft to drop out of an antitrust case against the company.
web sites) #39;s heart prob lem will make it even harder for John Kerry (news - web sites) to recover from his dramatic slippage in the polls, nervous New York Democrats said over the weekend.
Oil prices rallied to a record above $55 a barrel Monday on concerns over a winter fuel supply crunch, and as traders took comments from a top U.S. official to mean high prices have yet to really dent U.S. demand.
BHP Billiton #39;s Australian investors will collect $1.5 billion from a buyback announced by the global miner yesterday. But the move will leave foreigners with a stronger presence on the BHP share register because they can #39;t participate.
U.S. stock futures got a slight boost on Friday after a report showed U.S. retail sales rose in October, but the market still looked to open flat, pulling back from the previous day's rally as oil prices nudge higher.
Top U.S. retailers reported double-digit profit gains in the third quarter, with industry titan Wal-Mart Stores Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">WMT.N</A> leading the pack and brightening its outlook for the key holiday season underpinned by the recent drop in oil prices.
The Japanese economy is expected to grow just above 2.0 percent in 2005 and 2006, losing some steam on slower exports after an estimated robust 4.0-percent expansion this year, according to the OECD.
The price of crude oil dropped almost 8 percent this week, its biggest weekly decline since April 2003.
A bankruptcy judge granted US Airways authority Friday to immediately cut the pay of its union workers by 21 percent, saying the airline's situation is so dire that urgent action must be taken.
Yesterday, shares of Chalone Wine Group (Nasdaq: CHLN) rose some 13 following the announcement that 46 owner Domaines Barons de Rothschild (Lafite), after months
American International Group Inc., the world's largest insurer by market value, said on Thursday it was the target of a federal grand jury investigation into products that prosecutors say were concocted to help companies manage their earnings.
With President George Bush safely back in the White House, and with no need to face the voters again (American presidents are only allowed two terms), is he not duty bound finally to do something about America #39;s terrible twins - a current account deficit
ATLANTA (AP)--Telecommunications firm BellSouth Corp. said Wednesday that the new terms of its tentative labor agreement will change how the company #39;s contribution to retiree medical benefits is calculated and will boost benefit expenses by $3.3 billion.
President George Bush Friday, without ceremony, signed into law a $136 billion US corporate tax cut bill. The bill gives tax breaks to a range of businesses from farmers to Hollywood producers to large corporations.
US stocks rebound on sharp drop in oil prices to close with just a narrow loss. Wall Street drew support from upbeat earnings news from Johnson amp; Johnson and Merrill Lynch.
Merck Co. on Friday said U.S. regulators won't approve its experimental arthritis drug Arcoxia until the company provides more data showing it is safe and effective.
The U.S. economy is on track after a weak stretch and an uptick in consumer prices seems to have passed, Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President Robert McTeer said on Tuesday.
BRUSSELS: The European Union sought talks with Washington yesterday over US export tax subsidies that will survive last month #39;s repeal of a system the World Trade Organisation (WTO) had declared illegal.
Sprint (FON) and Nextel (NXTL) are in discussions to merge, with an eye to creating a wireless giant that could rival Cingular and Verizon Wireless in size and scope, according to two people with direct knowledge of the talks.
Broadcom Corp. on Tuesday announced that Scott McGregor, chief of Philips #39; chip division, will become its new president and CEO.
Applications for U.S. home mortgages declined last week as refinancing activity fell and mortgage rates were little changed, an industry group said on Wednesday.
McDonald #39;s Corp., the world #39;s largest restaurant chain, said CEO and President Charlie Bell has resigned to focus on his fight against cancer.
McDonald #39;s (MCD) third-quarter earnings rose a higher-than-expected 42 on a preliminary basis, the world #39;s largest restaurant chain said Wednesday, citing strong sales in the United States and a lower tax rate.
The major stock indexes ended 1 percent lower on Thursday after crude oil rose to a record $53 a barrel and drug makers like Pfizer Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PFE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PFE.N</A> and Merck Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MRK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MRK.N</A> sank on worry that the government may intensify scrutiny of that sector.
The suit is back, and America's boardrooms and bars are looking smart again.
U.S. blue chips ended lower on Monday after a disappointing sales forecast from the world's biggest retailer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">WMT.N</A>, overshadowed a two-day pullback in oil prices.
DreamWorks has pushed back the release date of Shrek 3 from a November 2006 release to May 2007. The date shift comes after a similar move by Walt Disney/Pixar Animation to push the date of Cars from a November 2005 release to May 2006.
Japan #39;s Supreme Court has reportedly approved the merger negotiations between UFJ Holdings Inc (ticker: UFJ) and Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group (MTFG).
Winners lost. Cereals bowled. Online storefronts schooled their offline storefronts yet again. In sum, it was another week of twisted holiday cheer.
World oil prices rose sharply again on Thursday after Russian oil giant YUKOS said a Moscow court's decision to effectively freeze its bank accounts threatened its ability to continue production.
George Soros was handing greater control of his $12.8 billion (R82.7 billion) money management firm over to his sons and spinning off his property, credit and buyout units, said a memo sent yesterday to investors and staff.
Robust U.S. economic growth will likely continue into 2005, but authorities should cut the budget deficit to reduce the risk to growth, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Rodrigo Rato said.</p>
The next version of the Windows operating system, Microsoft Corp.'s <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MSFT.O</A> flagship product, will ship in 2006, the world's largest software maker said on Friday.
No. 1 US satellite television provider DirecTV Inc. says it will launch four new satellites to expand programming capacity, particularly for high-definition channels and interactive services.
EMI Group PLC, the world's third-largest music company, on Friday said it and other music companies faced a New York probe into how music companies influence what songs are played on the radio.
Lenovo Group, China #39;s personal computer giant, Wednesday signed a definitive agreement with IBM to acquire Big Blue #39;s personal computer
Microsoft Corporation plans to create Russian versions of its Hotmail e-mail program and Microsoft Network online service, Associated Press reports.
Pfizer Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PFE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PFE.N</A> on Friday said it would take a third-quarter pretax charge of $369 million for a settlement with plaintiffs who allege they were harmed by products containing asbestos and other minerals once sold by a Pfizer subsidiary.
With the rise of the euro fast becoming a threat to economic recovery in the 12-country eurozone, calls are growing for the European Central Bank to clip the single currency's wings, either by direct intervention or a cut in interest rates.
SYDNEY : Prime Minister John Howard #39;s election campaign received a last-minute boost as new unemployment figures showed a larger than expected fall in the number of jobless, two days before an election he has fought on his economic record.
Union leaders representing more than 10,000 Atlantic City casino hotel workers in a monthlong walkout met into the night yesterday, considering the latest in a series of contract offers by the casinos.
10/22/04 - The board of the Walt Disney Company went on trial Wednesday, facing shareholder accusations that it simply rubber-stamped a decision
Donald J. Trump may have a new project for his apprentices -elping him try to figure out how to take his troubled casino company private after a proposed bailout fell through.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--As investors speculate about the future landscape of the Australian media industry, newspaper publisher John Fairfax Holdings Ltd.
Oil prices jumped anew Monday as Hurricane Ivan continued to ravage the Caribbean and forced the evacuation of some oil workers in the Gulf of Mexico.
At the ripe old age of 45, Barbie has been knocked off her perch in Britain by streetwise upstart Bratz in the Christmas battle of the dolls.
A discussion of Venezuela #39;s political crisis should not begin or end with a cautionary parable about Herbert Mathews, but his image is hard to shake.
Japan #39;s Nikkei average rose 0.67 percent at the opening on Monday after crude oil dropped back from record highs above $49 a barrel, encouraging some investors to return to the Tokyo stock market in search of bargains.
ChevronTexaco Corp.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CVX.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CVX.N</A>, the No. 2 U.S. oil company, on Friday reported a 62 percent rise in quarterly profit from record oil prices and gains from asset sales, but the results fell short of Wall Street forecasts.
Accor North America has reached an agreement with T-Mobile USA Inc. to install wireless Internet access throughout all of its Red Roof Inns over the next year, officials said.
Maruti Udyog Ltd. said on Tuesday that the Directors have approved a proposal that the forthcoming Diesel Engine Manufacturing Plant will be controlled and managed by Suzuki Metal India Ltd (proposed to be
U.S. oil prices slid below #36;46 on Tuesday, marking the third successive session of falls as Iraqi exports returned to near normal, although supply uncertainties kept the market close to historic levels.
Minnesota next week will begin issuing a first-of-its-kind driver #39;s license designed to thwart counterfeiters -n issue that has taken on greater urgency since the Sept.
SAN FRANCISCOAnalog chip maker National Semiconductor Corp. yesterday posted a higher quarterly profit, with sales in line with its reduced forecast on lower-than-expected demand for flat-panel displays and from Chinese wireless handset makers.
Depressed sales at Federated Department Store Inc. stores in Florida will cause third-quarter results to come in lower than expected, the company announced today.
Alitalia SpA said eight of its nine biggest unions agreed to a plan to split Italy #39;s biggest airline in two, enabling the carrier to receive a loan to stay in business.
Oil prices climbed for the third straight day on Wednesday as U.S. government reported a fall in heating oil stocks and cold weather gripped the U.S. Northeast, the world's biggest heating fuel market.
Australian media empire Publishing amp; Broadcasting Ltd. reported Thursday a 75 percent jump in earnings for the fiscal year ending June 30, thanks to a strong economy and a rebound in advertising revenue.
James Hardie Industries NV, facing aA $1.2 billion ( $880 million) bill to compensate asbestos victims, said Chief Executive Officer Peter Macdonald quit, a month after an inquiry found he misled investors about the costs.
CHICAGO United Airlines #39; union leaders are meeting today to review the company #39;s proposal for a further 725 (M) million dollars in labor concessions and the elimination of pension programs.
Iranian Defense Minister Ali Shamkhani said Saturday that Iran has achieved an amp;quoteffective deterrent power quot; to confront its enemies in the region, the official IRNA news agency reported.
Altria Group Inc.'s Philip Morris USA has initiated a long-awaited increase in cigarette prices, providing what some analysts consider the first sign of life in the U.S. cigarette market since 2002.
Oil prices crumbled another 5 percent to a 12-week low just above $43 a barrel on Thursday, suffering the biggest two-day slide since the Gulf War after a rise in U.S. heating oil stocks triggered furious selling.
NEW DELHI: A key communist ally of Indias Congress party-led coalition urged the government on Friday not to raise retail prices of petroleum products if possible despite soaring global oil prices.
The removal of painkiller Vioxx shows no drug is perfect. It is linked to heart attacks and strokes, but it has helped many. Patients must evaluate medications more carefully than ever.
Ad campaigns for the holiday season from retailers like Best Buy and Target aim to forge emotional bonds with consumers.
Online employment indexes that focus on Internet job listings may establish themselves as forward-looking indicators of trends that will appear later in the government surveys.
One of the tongue-in-cheek rules that we column-writers have is, quot;Often wrong, never in doubt. quot; Take a stand, don #39;t duck and weave too much.
U.S. stocks rose on Friday after reports showed U.S. economic growth in the second quarter matched economists' forecasts and consumer sentiment picked up above expectations in late August, but volume was feather light ahead of the upcoming Republican convention in New York City.
Discount retailing giant Costco Wholesale Corp. said Thursday that profits grew 21 percent in its fiscal first quarter, thanks to higher sales and more revenue from membership fees.
<p> </p><p> By John Parry</p><p> NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar dropped to record lows against the euro on Friday, succumbing to negative sentiment and erasing all of the U.S. currency's earlier gains following a robust U.S. October employment report.</p>
Stocks fell for the second straight week as investors recoiled from a major insurance industry scandal, record high oil prices, a worsening trade deficit and a mixed bag of corporate earnings.
When was the last time a consumer cyclical stock in the auto and truck parts segment soared over 100 in a single day? Today. China Automotive Systems (Nasdaq: CAAS) announced today that its 51
SEATTLE/NEW YORK: Microsoft has said it will pay $536m to Novell to settle an antitrust suit. It also resolved a 10-year dispute with a computer trade group.
LONDON Airbus has predicted that an average of 830 passenger aircraft will be built each year for the next two decades and that the new Airbus jumbo A380 will be so successful that Boeing will be forced to develop a competitor.
American Airlines slashed its fares to Miami yesterday by as much as 85 percent from several cities including Washington #39;s Reagan National Airport, possibly setting off a winter fare war on routes to Florida.
The Italian government's public offer of shares in electricity company ENEL will run from October 18-22, the economy and finance ministry said.
Three UK bankers must wait until the middle of October to see if they will be extradited to the US over an Enron-related case.
Hilton Hotels Corp. on Monday posted a 79 percent jump in third-quarter profit, as strong summer travel demand and higher room rates helped the company #39;s bottom line.
A ruling from the World Trade Organization could open the United States to offshore Internet gambling. A WTO panel says the federal government should drop its ban on Americans placing bets at online casinos.
Nordstrom Inc. #39;s income soared 71 percent in its latest quarter as the clothing chain continued to focus on improving merchandise and managing expenses.
Allstate Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ALL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ALL.N</A>, the No. 2 U.S. home and auto insurer, warned on Wednesday its third-quarter profits would fall well short of expectations due to more than $1 billion in hurricane-related payouts.
Cisco yesterday announced a deal to buy network monitoring firm NetSolve for $11 per share or approximately $128m. The acquisition of NetSolve, which is subject to stockholder and regulatory approvals, is expected to close in Cisco #39;s Q2 #39;05.
Riggs Bank investigators have found evidence of possible criminal activities by some former employees who managed the accounts of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet and have referred their findings to federal prosecutors, according to several sources.
US stocks rose on investors #39; hopes for a year-end rally, while the dollar eked out gains and oil advanced again on Thursday as OPEC ministers supported supply cuts by applying official output quotas.
London oil prices fell briefly through $40 on Thursday for the first time in three weeks, extending four sessions of heavy losses made as renewed exports from Iraq and higher-than-expected U.S. gasoline inventories encouraged big-money funds to take profits.
Academic institutions and researchers are widely viewed as impartial actors in drug trials. But that independence often comes with strings attached.
The economy grew at a faster pace this spring than previously thought, but was at its weakest level in more than a year, providing ammunition to both candidates in the final weeks of the presidential race.
The management of Gold Fields, the South African gold producer, was dealt a blow on Tuesday after shareholders voted against a proposed reverse takeover of Canadian gold group Iamgold.
Oracle #39;s acquisition of PeopleSoft will create a bigger competitor for Microsoft and put one of the Redmond company #39;s largest industry partners in the hands of a rival.
WASHINGTON : US manufacturing activity expanded for the 17th straight month in October, albeit at a slower pace, but energy prices squeezed profits, a survey showed.
A key gauge of future economic activity weakened for a third straight month in August as costlier oil spread worry among consumers and businesses, a report from a business research group showed on Thursday .
ConocoPhillips on Tuesday said third-quarter crude oil and natural gas production will be 7 percent lower than levels in the previous quarter due to scheduled maintenance in the North Sea and Alaska, as well as normal seasonal declines.
J.M. Smucker Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SJM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">SJM.N</A> on Friday posted an 18.5 percent rise in quarterly profit, but its shares fell as much as 5 percent as sales were nearly flat excluding an acquisition.
Most big companies are coming up with enough cash to keep their pension funds legally sound, after three years of extraordinary losses. Not so their government backstop.
U.S. stocks opened flat on Friday as Wall Street pulled back after a big rally in the previous session, with shares of computer maker Dell Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DELL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DELL.O</A> higher after reporting strong earnings late on Thursday.
Globe Telecom has joined a group of mobile-phone operators in Asia-Pacific to form a regional mobile alliance that will invest up to $30 million to $40 million over three years with an objective
America's factories saw orders for costly manufactured goods in July post the biggest gain in four months, an encouraging sign that the economy is emerging from an early summer funk.
Indian-born Lakshmi Mittal started out with a steel mill in Indonesia in 1976. By April of next year, the London-based entrepreneur will have bought Wilbur Ross #39;s International Steel Group
Blockbuster Inc. <BBI.N>, the largest U.S. video rental chain, on Thursday said it has contacted Hollywood Entertainment Corp. <HLYW.O> about acquiring its top rival for $700 million.</p>
LONDON National Grid Transco, the owner of Britain #39;s power and natural gas grids, said on Tuesday that it would sell half of its gas-distribution networks for 5.
The blue-chip Dow Jones average closed below 10,000 for the first time in about six weeks on Monday as a spike in oil prices to nearly #36;50 a barrel renewed concerns about corporate profits while analysts cutting recommendations hurt tech stocks.
Curt Schilling's masterful performance in Game 6 of the American League Championship Series isn't just the stuff that makes baseball legend. It's also the stuff that sells shoes.
The FedEx Corp., the delivery giant, reported Thursday its second quarter earnings soared due to a strengthening economy and continued growth in overseas and ground shipping.
SHANGHAI : Foreign exchange markets felt the impact of China #39;s growing economic muscle this week when a report claiming the country #39;s central bank had sold US Treasuries helped push the euro to all-time highs, underscoring market sensitivity about a
BT launches a new mobile phone service, three years after spinning-off its MM02 subsidiary.
The head of China #39;s central bank said on Sunday Beijing #39;s efforts to curb excessive credit growth were bearing fruit, increasing chances the country #39;s booming economy would achieve a quot;soft landing.
It #39;s all about Eddie. Wall Street is betting Kmart chairman Eddie Lampert will be able to add a successful combination with Sears, the biggest retail merger in history, to his impressive resume.
Intel Corp., the worlds largest semiconductor producer, said yesterday its third-quarter profit rose at the slowest pace in five quarters on record stockpile of computer chips, growing competition and slow sales of PCs.
The US Justice Department has begun a criminal investigation into possible wrongdoing at Riggs Bank, The Washington Post reported on Saturday, citing a letter from the US attorney for the District of Columbia to federal bank ...
Jonathan Neal, 24, bought a $400,000 condo in Northwest this past summer, while high housing prices have forced many of his friends to live with their parents.
SYDNEY: Australian housing finance figures show a weaker-than-expected 0.4 percent rise in the number of mortgages taken out during the month of August.
DirecTV reported a net loss of just over $1 billion in the quarter ended September 30th, compared to a loss of $23 million in the same period last year.
The South African company Gold Fields Limited announced Friday that the New York Stock Exchange has suspended trading in its stock.
A Hong Kong company has developed a virtual girlfriend for cell phones with video capability. Also: RealNetworks offers paid internet content hellip;.Vodafone, Nokia team up to simplify mobile software hellip;. and more.
Discount brokerage firm Charles Schwab Corp. said on Monday that its brokerage arm will lower retail equity trade commissions, and the pricing changes may reduce revenue for the next year while enhancing its competitive position.
SINGAPORE (Dow Jones)--China Aviation Oil Singapore Corp. (C47.SG) Tuesday said four executives have surrendered their passports to Singapore police as the investigation into Singapore #39;s worst financial scandal continues.
The Federal Communications Commission ruled that states are now barred from imposing telecommunications regulations on Net phone providers, which treat calls no differently than any other application on the Internet.
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK.L: Quote, Profile, Research) has agreed to disclose information on all clinical studies of its drugs to settle a lawsuit that accused it of withholding negative information about the antidepressant Paxil, the
Tommy Hilfiger, chairman and chief designer of the US fashion company, yesterday bought up clothing brands belonging to the stylist Karl Lagerfeld for an undisclosed sum.
Intel Corp. on Thursday said President Paul Otellini, a marketing expert, would replace Craig Barrett as chief executive, at a time when the No.
Louisville rings in the Christmas season with a 120-year tradition. The Salvation Army kicked off its kettle and bell ringing campaign Friday, called quot;Keep the Tradition Alive.
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday said it will cut 6,000 to 7,000 jobs, or about 10 percent of its work force, over the next 18
an oil giant with a corporate governance structure as complicated as its name -s trying to simplify. That was the good news Thursday, but the embattled
Wendy's International Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WEN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">WEN.N</A> shares rose 7 percent on Wednesday as investors welcomed news the company will write down the value of some of its struggling Baja Fresh restaurants and close several of them.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing biotechnology companies as part of a wider effort to ensure that companies don #39;t mislead investors
When it comes to ICANN, let #39;s just say quot;You Can #39;t. quot; Or rather, you can #39;t dispute its authority. In the latest phase of a long-simmering dispute between VeriSign (Nasdaq: VRSN
Kraft Foods Inc., the owner of Oscar Mayer Foods Corp., Madison, said Monday that it will sell its sugar confectionery business, including the Life Savers and Altoids brands, to chewing gum and candy maker Wm.
Harmony Gold yesterday undermined its ambitions to take over rival Gold Fields and create the world #39;s biggest gold producer by reporting a headline loss that was worse than expected for the first quarter.
GlaxoSmithKline PLC is in talks with the Food and Drug Administration about selling its Fluarix influenza vaccine in the United States this season because of the expected flu vaccine shortage this year.
Justice may be blind, but it ain #39;t cheap: Tyco International #39;s (nyse: TYC - news - people ) former chief executive and chief financial officer say their legal bills have topped $25 million and they want a second insurance company to pick up the extras.
It has been an extraordinarily eventful month for tycoon Wilbur L Ross. A few weeks ago the 67-year-old money manager turned steel baron married for the third time and friends predicted he would soon be slowing down to enjoy the #39;finer #39; things of life.
Advanced Neuromodulation Systems Inc. reported Friday that it purchased 3.5 million shares of Cyberonics Inc., taking a 14.9 percent stake in the Houston-based medical device maker, and expressed an interest in combining the two companies.
Manufacturers saw their fledgling recovery stumble in July on sharp declines in the production of beer and medicines, figures showed today.
Some mutual funds invest in stocks; others invest in bonds. Now a new breed of funds is offering the chance to own fine art.
Crude oil #39;s five-day plunge last week after failing to reach US $50 a barrel convinced more traders and analysts that the price will continue to fall, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
SAN FRANCISCO Symantec, the computer security giant, reached final agreement Thursday to take over the storage and backup program maker Veritas Software, making Symantec the No.4 independent software company in the world.
Merck amp; Co. has adopted a severance plan that offers some executives one-time payments of up to triple their salary plus other perks if the troubled pharmaceutical giant is acquired and they lose their jobs.
Telecom Italia (TLIT.MI: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday offered to buy out minority shareholders in its mobile arm TIM in a 21 billion
U.S. Treasuries broke a three-day rally and retreated on Thursday as investors turned cautious before the climax of the week - the August payrolls report.
The dollar held steady across the board on Friday as the market readied itself for a U.S. jobs report later in the session which is likely to set the tone for expectations of U.S. interest rate rises.
The US Senate approved modifications to the Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act Friday, clearing the way for House passage of the bill that would prevent taxing online purchases.
The dollar struggled to pull away from August lows on Wednesday as investors wondered whether the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates next month after another round of weak U.S. data in the previous session.
Americans stormed the nation #39;s shops the day after Thanksgiving, the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, lured by cut-price toys and consumer electronics.
Continental Airlines (CAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday finalized details of wage and benefits cuts for reservations and food service workers that the airline said
Shares of SuperGen Inc. dropped 17 percent before the bell on Monday after the company said it withdrew an application to market its pancreatic cancer treatment in the United States due to insufficient data.
Customers at the Blockbuster at Grant Street and East Sixth Avenue in Denver welcomed the company #39;s announcement to abandon late fees.
HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--China #39;s No. 2 telecom equipment maker ZTE Corp. (0763.HK) said Sunday it expects overseas sales to rise to contribute around 40 of its total revenue in 2006, compared with 13.4 posted in the first half of 2004.
Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) technology major Qualcomm Inc on Friday announced the opening of a research and development (R amp;D) in Hyderabad, to support its chipset development activities.
Shares of SuperGen Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SUPG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">SUPG.O</A> jumped more than 24 percent in trading before the market opened on Wednesday after MGI Pharma Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MOGN.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MOGN.O</A> said it would take a $40 million stake in the company as part of a cancer drug license deal.
The US economy is losing steam, the Conference Board said Thursday, reporting that the index of US leading economic indicators fell 0.3 percent in October, the fifth straight decrease.
The European Union said Monday it will lift sanctions against US imports following President Bush #39;s decision to remove illegal export subsidies.
AT amp;T Corp. swung to a third-quarter loss of $7.1 billion after recording huge charges related to the company #39;s retreat from traditional telephone services, which has included at least 7,500 more
Lovers' quarrels, family conflicts, and money. It's Britain's latest reality TV series.
Bolstered by investors, Oracle Corp. appears destined to complete its long-sought takeover of PeopleSoft Inc. unless its rival becomes more profitable and proves it is worth more than the $9.2 billion bid currently on the table.
The District of Columbia ranks ahead of all 50 states in women #39;s median wage, while Maryland is a close second and Virginia ranks eighth, according to a new state-by-state report on the status of women.
Sprint Corp., the telecommunications giant, said yesterday it will cut 700 jobs in its business solutions division as it stops selling business long distance services outside of package deals.
OPEC oil producers said on Thursday that Friday's ministerial meeting would focus on cutting back oversupply to support falling prices and that producers would have to reduce output quotas early next year.
Insurance claims for damage caused in the United States this year by four major hurricanes may reach $23 billion, surpassing payments on claims for 1992 #39;s Hurricane Andrew, an insurance industry group said on Friday.
PARIS Airbus announced Friday that it would move ahead with two new long-range versions of its widebody A330 aircraft to cobble together a competitor for Boeing #39;s planned new 7E7.
Attorneys for US Airways hope to convince a bankruptcy court judge in Alexandria today that without substantial pay cuts, the airline will go out of business.
GlaxoSmithKline escaped with a rap over the knuckles yesterday in the latest crusade against alleged corporate wrong-doing spearheaded by the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer.
The discount retailer Kmart announced yesterday an $11bn (5.9bn) acquisition of Sears Roebuck, bringing two of the best-known names in American retailing under one roof.
NYMEX crude oil futures struck another record at $48.90 a barrel on Friday before the prompt-month expiry, as surging violence in Iraq sparked fresh concerns over supply disruptions.
U.S. consumer sentiment surpassed expectations in late August after declining earlier in the month as oil prices eased from record highs and security fears abated, according to sources who saw a survey on Friday.
SAN FRANCISCO: IBM is reportedly in talks to sell its personal computer business in a deal that could be worth up to $2 billion and would cap a gradual withdrawal from the business it helped to pioneer in 1981.
U.S. industrial production growth nearly stalled last month as cool weather led to a drop in electrical output, which obscured a strong performance at factories, a Federal Reserve report showed on Wednesday.
You could say it #39;s been quite a ride for Harley-Davidson #39;s (HDI:NYSE - news - research) Jeffrey L. Bleustein. The motorcycle company said Thursday that Bleustein, 65, will retire as CEO, effective April 30, but continue as chairman.
FedEx Corp.'s <FDX.N> express air shipping unit has been ordered by the U.S. government to repay $29 million in excess funds received under an act established after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the company said on Friday.</p>
Boeing would lose last year's deal to lease and sell aircraft refueling tankers to the Air Force, while a plan to close some bases would go forward under a nearly $450 billion defense bill moving toward approval in the House.
Allied Waste Industries Inc. cut its 2004 earnings forecast for the second time in three months Tuesday saying sales growth was coming from lower-margin businesses instead of the more profitable landfill operation.
Regis Corp. (RGS) announced a deal to acquire Hair Club for Men and Women in which it will pay $210 million.
French aircraft motor maker Snecma and French telecommunications equipment group Sagem quot;will announce their merger on Friday, quot; a Sagem spokeswoman said.
U.S. Treasury debt rallied on Friday as a weak employment report revived talk the Federal Reserve might slow the pace of interest rate increases.
Royal Dutch/Shell Group said today it will spend $45 billion (US) and sell up to $12 billion worth of assets to reinvigorate its underperforming oil and natural gas business.
Freddie Mac, the second biggest provider of financing for US residential mortgages, said significant #39; #39; revisions are still required before it can resume quarterly reports of its earnings.
Office Depot Inc. plans to cut 900 jobs as it consolidates operations at eight call centers and offices in six states. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office Depot - the nation #39;s second
After touching 53 dollars a barrel, light crude for November delivery settled with a gain of 65 cents at 52 dollars, 67 cents. Oil prices have risen more than 20 percent over the past month, largely in reaction
Jack M. Wilson became president of the University of Massachusetts system in March, overseeing five campuses and 60,000 students. Among his goals: making UMass a driver of the state economy. He spoke with Globe staff reporter Robert Gavin about the school's role in economic development.
The dollar rebounded on Monday after a heavy selloff last week, but analysts were uncertain if the rally could hold as the drumbeat of expectation began for to the December U.S. jobs report due Friday.
With oil prices receding, North American stock markets seem poised to advance Thursday, the last day of the financial third quarter for many corporations.
Linx Printing Technologies says it is backing a 86 million pound takeover offer by US firm Danaher after a rival, lower, bidder withdrew.
Stocks kicked off the fourth quarter with a solid rally on Friday as investors bet the market would shake off continued uncertainty about the election, the
Santander Central Hispano is expected to announce that headcount at Abbey National will not drop by more than 4,500 in the three years after its takeover, a source familiar with the situation says.
NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Former star technology banker Frank Quattrone has asked a federal appeals court to seal some letters written in his support in order to protect his family #39;s privacy.
Among the 20 stock analysts who follow the fortunes of Google Inc., only one lonely researcher suggests selling the shares. I would join him.
The central bank is likely to keep interest rates at historical lows for now amid worries about weakening demand for electronics goods in the second half, economists said yesterday.
The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 171.88 points, or 1.22 percent, to 14,066.91. On Friday, the index had slipped 31.58 points, or 0.2 percent.
General Motors Corp. , coming off two straight months of disappointing sales, told dealers on Tuesday it will launch new U.S. sales incentives later this week.
The deal marks the last chapter in the history of two of Hollywoods most famous names - Metro Goldwyn Mayer, once best known for its musical hits like Singing in the Rain and its subsidiary, United Artists, the studio founded in 1919 by Charlie
WAL-MART Stores, the worlds largest retailer and owner of Asda supermarkets, has reported a 12.7 per cent rise in its third-quarter earnings.
HAVANA In his first visit to Latin America, Chinese President Hu Jintao came bearing billions of dollars worth of potential trade and investment agreements that prompted regional leaders to herald a new era of closer ties with the emerging economic
Health care professionals across the state say a new federal program that will give $1 billion to hospitals nationwide that provide emergency care to undocumented
Tokyo #39;s Nikkei average jumped 1.6 percent by the close on Friday as a rally on Wall Street and lower oil prices ignited broad-based buying, with weak Japanese GDP data causing only a brief stutter at the start.
Struggling air carrier US Airways (UAIRQ.OQ: Quote, Profile, Research) may petition a bankruptcy court to impose temporary concessions on its unionized workers in the event they fail to agree quickly enough to cost savings
China #39;s appetite for raw materials shows no sign of abating, with four Chinese steel mills agreeing to buy an extra $3.2 billion of Australian iron ore over the next 10 years, global miner BHP Billiton said Tuesday.
Qualcomm Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=QCOM.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">QCOM.O</A> may change the way it recognizes royalties from its licensees, which would reduce fourth-quarter pre-tax income by $298 million, the company said on Friday.
Hollinger Inc., one of the key companies in Conrad Black #39;s troubled business empire, has received approval to issue another $15 million (US) in notes to raise cash for its day-to-day operations.
Frank Quattrone, who was sentenced to 18 months in prison last week, accused the judge in his case of quot;callousness quot; for revealing his 15-year-old daughter #39;s emotional disorder and asked an appeals court to seal letters from family and friends seeking
Alltel Corp. wasted little time in seizing opportunities created by last months Cingular Wireless-AT amp;T Wireless merger, announcing plans Friday to buy most of the assets that US regulators asked Cingular to sell.
France #39;s public deficit will drop by about euro10 billion (US $12 billion) in 2005 to conform with European Union rules, the French prime minister said in an interview.
Stocks clung to a modest advance Wednesday despite a new record high for oil and gloomy third-quarter outlooks from several companies as investors awaited the government #39;s jobs creation report at the end of the week.
While taking a back seat to software and security efforts, hardware is still a big time concern according to our survey. Organizations are taking the opportunity to consolidate their environments as they replace
Most households and businesses will pay more for heating this winter as the prices of crude oil and other energy sources continue to rise.
French telecommunications equipment vendor Alcatel on Friday snapped up two US technology firms in acquisitions that will add wireless switching and IP conferencing technology to its portfolio.
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, December 6 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ - The Board of Directors of Gold Fields Limited (NYSE:GFI)(NYSE:and)(NYSE:JSE:)(NYSE:GFI) welcomes today #39;s decision by the High Court of South Africa in respect of its ability to vote ordinary
A Scottish banker who was told last week he will be extradited to America under new anti-terror legislation to face fraud charges and a possible 35 years in jail, has said his human rights were ignored.
A Las Vegas-based startup air carrier plans to be the US launch customer for Boeing Co. #39;s new 7E7 quot;Dreamliner quot; twin-engine jet.
HBOS has been granted access to sensitive financial information about Abbey National, indicating the seriousness of the UK bank #39;s intentions towards its rival.
All the major stock indexes were up Friday as investors continue to react favorably to a drop in oil prices and better-than-expected economic index reports.
U.S. crude prices rose to another new record on Thursday, rising 25 cents to $47.52 a barrel on evidence that high prices are not hurting world oil demand growth.
Like the big oil companies, the world #39;s mining majors are experiencing an embarrassment of riches due to very high commodity prices. BHP Billiton is in the happiest position: it is both the world #39;s biggest miner and has a substantial oil production ...
Sun Microsystems Inc. said Tuesday that it agreed to provide Vodafone Group PLC with its entire line of hardware, software and services for its wireless phone network.
The Boeing Co. is welcoming a decision by its European rival to build a plane that can compete with the Chicago company #39;s 7E7.
Ontario Finance Minister Greg Sorbara said government spending and revenue rose almost equally in the first six months of the fiscal year, leaving the provincial budget deficit unchanged
Russian authorities have assessed a new tax claim for $114 million on one of Yukos' smaller subsidiaries, the Interfax news agency reported Thursday, in the latest legal assault against the embattled Russian oil giant.
JOHANNESBURG (Dow Jones)--South Africa #39;s Securities Regulation Panel will next week hear objections from Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) to the takeover offer the company received earlier this week from Harmony Gold Mining Co.
Russian oil group YUKOS has filed for bankruptcy protection in a U.S. court in an attempt to stop the Russian government from auctioning off its main production unit on Dec. 19, it said on Wednesday.
American Express Co. said Friday it will cut 2,000 jobs, or 2.5 percent of its work force, in a restructuring designed to save more than $75 million a year before taxes.
Coca-Cola reports a 24 drop in quarterly income on the back of weak sales of its soft drinks, juices and bottled waters.
SPRINT and Nextel Communications are expected early this week to announce a $70 billion (36 billion) telecoms merger that will create Americas third-largest mobile-phone company, with 39m customers.
NEW YORK: US stocks ended slightly higher on Friday, helped by strength in technology after bellwether Intel Corp lifted its sales forecast, although a weak jobs report put a damper on Wall Street.
Tyson Foods, the worlds largest meat processor, said that its earnings would probably be less than expected.
Ford Motor Co. of Canada #39;s rivals will be watching closely today as the automaker makes a widely-anticipated announcement confirming its plans to build a $1-billion flexible manufacturing plant in Oakville, Ont.
The sharemarket kicked off the December quarter at a new high yesterday, but experts are warning that it will have trouble maintaining the momentum of the past three months.
The former chief executive of software maker Computer Associates International was charged yesterday with securities fraud in a multibillion-dollar accounting
International Business Machines Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IBM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">IBM.N</A> has settled for an undisclosed sum part of a potentially multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over its pension plan, a Wednesday court filing shows.
The price of success is $25 million, according to a filing Friday by the corporate rescue firm of Enron Corp.'s interim chief executive.
The FTSE 100 has fallen for the fifth session in a row, with insurers crowding the list of fallers after sentiment in the sector was damaged by news that New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer was suing a US firm.
Flute maker David C. Williams is known among the world's finest musicians for his artistry. But for 15 long years, he found it difficult to balance the expense of buying the materials he needs to craft his instruments against the unpredictability in orders for his handiwork.
There is more to Howard Stern's migration to satellite radio than meets the FM dial's eye.
JetBlue Airways Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JBLU.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">JBLU.O</A> on Wednesday lowered its estimate for third-quarter earnings, citing disruptions from Hurricanes Charley and Frances.
Canada #39;s entire mutual-fund industry faces short-term pain but could reap longer-term gain, observers said Tuesday after the news that four prominent fund companies face quot;potential enforcement proceedings quot; for improper trading.
In an effort to conserve cash, financially ailing US Airways Group Inc. said Monday that it plans to ask the Internal Revenue Service for permission to delay payments into the pension plans of two of its employee groups.
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday cut its earnings forecast after making a wrong bet on the direction of grain prices and demand for chicken
Leaders of the nation #39;s largest flight attendants union have unanimously voted to authorize a strike. They #39;re upset at how members are being treated during troubled times for many carriers.
U.S. Treasuries were higher on Friday, after cementing in Asia their New York data-driven gains Thursday and awaiting the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index later in the session.
Russian oil major YUKOS again warned on Thursday that it may be forced to cut output after saying that a Moscow court ruled this week that $2.6 billion of company funds could be seized by the authorities.
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.(MSO) reported a much wider quarterly loss on Thursday as its founder #39;s criminal conviction on charges of lying to investigators continued to weigh on the business.
Gold Fields Ltd. said Friday that it is suing fellow South African miner Harmony Gold Mining Ltd., charging that Harmony has misled shareholders in its recent hostile bid for Gold Fields.
Want to watch your HBO while waiting at the doctor #39;s office, or use your cellphone instead of a portable music player to listen to songs from your home digital jukebox?
Top U.S. electronics chain Best Buy Co. Inc. on Wednesday reported higher quarterly profit due to expense control and higher gross margins, offsetting sluggish sales growth.
The head of Fannie Mae is sure to come under fire when he testifies before Congress today. At a Capitol Hill hearing, Franklin Raines is scheduled to make his first public comments since an accounting scandal surfaced last month at the mortgage giant.
Beating its own and market expectations, software major Infosys Technologies on Tuesday reported a 48.64 per cent jump in net profit at Rs 447.
Riley Property Holdings LLC, a new company majority owned by affiliates of New York-based investment firm Cerberus Capital Management LP, agreed to purchase LNR Property Corp.
An assistant manager at Costco Wholesale accused the company of discriminating against female workers by failing to promote as many as 650 women to high-paying management jobs.
This year #39;s cotton crop is on pace to be the largest in US history, although hurricanes that have battered the nation in the past few months may reduce the final amount.
Tokyo stocks ended higher for the fifth straight session Wednesday on optimism for solid corporate earnings and hopes for economic recovery.
Conrad Black and other controlling shareholders of Hollinger used $400 million for personal perks, a new report says.
PepsiCo Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PEP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PEP.N</A>, the world's No. 2 soft drink company, on Thursday said quarterly profit rose due to tax benefits and strong performances from its key Frito-Lay snack and North American beverage businesses and raised its full-year profit forecast.
FALLEN Press baron Lord Black has indicated he is willing to loosen control of Toronto-based Hollinger Inc amid allegations in an Ontario court filing by Canadian fund manager Catalyst.
SYDNEY: Coles Myer Ltd, Australias biggest retailer, increased second-half profit by 26 after opening fuel and convenience stores, selling more-profitable groceries and cutting costs.
India #39;s central bank unexpectedly raised a key interest rate for the first time in four years, saying record oil prices and rising corporate demand for credit threaten to fuel inflation.
As many as 225,000 low-income Massachusetts families may become automatically eligible for discounts of 20 percent and more on gas and electric service next month under a new policy adopted yesterday by state regulators.
British American Tobacco, the world #39;s second biggest cigarette maker, today posted a 20 rise in third quarter profits, although it said it continued to be affected by the weakness of the dollar.
Invesco Funds Group and affiliate AIM Advisors say they have agreed to pay $450 million (250 million pounds) to settle civil lawsuits over improper trading, the third biggest
Microsoft Corp. said Monday that it will continue to expand its software development operations in India as it opened a new campus near Hyderabad.
Nigeria said on Monday it had banned the awarding of government contracts to Halliburton, the world #39;s second-largest oil services firm, following the theft of two radioactive devices from its Nigerian subsidiary.
Gazproms shares opened nine percent higher on Wednesday to reach 74 rubles apiece, as heavy buying continued on news of the forthcoming takeover of the oil company Rosneft and the early liberalization of the gas giant
Maxim Pharmaceuticals Inc. said a trial to confirm the benefit of its Ceplene drug failed to show an improvement in survival rates for patients with liver cancer, sending its shares plunging on Monday.
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Friday threw his support behind a bill to dramatically increase the number of California homes using solar power, reviving a legislative effort that seemed all but dead last week.
The Russian government set a starting price of $1.93 billion (1.6 billion euros) for its 7.6 stake in oil giant OAO Lukoil at an auction set for next month at which ConocoPhillips Corp.
Bank of America Corp. will move its Wealth and Investment Management division to its Boston offices. Of 10 senior executives that will be based in Boston, only two will come from Charlotte.
Shares in Pinault-Printemps-Redoute lost some luster despite the French luxury and retail group reporting a third-quarter sales rise, as analysts pointed to slowing demand at the company's major stores in France.
Oil prices extended a streak of losses on Tuesday as dealers anticipated that strong OPEC output and recovering production in the United States would boost lean stockpiles in time for peak winter heating demand.
Adult entertainment company Playboy Enterprises Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PLA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PLA.N</A> on Monday said it expects higher profit in 2005 than in 2004, helped in part by gains at its international television and online subscription businesses as well as recent efforts to reduce debt.
Indonesia is likely to ask the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) during its scheduled meeting later this week to revise upward its crude oil price band so
Russia #39;s OAO Severstal (CHMF.RTS: Quote, Profile, Research) made a bid for Stelco Inc. (STEa.TO: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday, promising to take on the debts
Arsenal may seek a full stock market listing as a means of funding itself after moving to its new stadium, its vice-chairman says.
The Dow Jones industrial average is down four points at ten-thousand-94. Decliners on the New York Stock Exchange hold a narrow lead over advancers.
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer #39;s blockbuster insurance industry probe, which has rocked Wall Street with charges of conflicts of interest, is likely to focus next on health insurance.
Two midlevel employees of the Zurich American Insurance Company pleaded guilty yesterday to criminal charges related to the rigging of bids that investigators say was organized by the Global Broking unit of Marsh amp; McLennan.
OXFORD, England Rich countries are ardent advocates for democracy all around the world. But when it comes to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, government of the many by the few is the preferred option.
Tokyo's Nikkei fell for a second straight session to close 0.99 percent lower on Tuesday as selling increased after the dollar's retreat below 103 yen, putting more pressure on exporters such as Sony Corp
Union workers went out on strike Wednesday morning at four San Francisco hotels, their contract bargaining having stalled over differences about wages, pensions and the term of a contract.
Circuit City Stores Inc. (CC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday reported a narrower quarterly loss as it kept a tight rein on expenses and sales of digital televisions
US consumer prices eased down by 0.1 per cent in July as gasoline prices dropped, while factory output rose and home construction rebounded, offering hope the economy has escaped its early-summer quot;soft patch. quot; ...
Investors' appetite for U.S. assets will eventually dwindle and the United States must reduce its budget deficit to prevent major economic damage, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said on Friday, in remarks that hit the dollar hard.
The world #39;s financial system is in better shape than at any time since the pricking of the dotcom bubble and the September 11 terrorist attacks threw global markets into turmoil, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday.
NEW DELHI: The government will set up a regulatory framework for infrastructure to create the necessary environment to attract $150 billion foreign direct investment in the sector for achieving seven to eight per cent growth, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
Japan #39;s Toshiba Corp. said Tuesday it has field suit against South Korea #39;s Hynix Semiconductor Inc. in Japan and the United States, alleging infringement of Toshiba #39;s semiconductor flash memory patents.
The dollar posted modest gains on Wednesday as investors awaited comments from the Federal Reserve chief that are expected to point to further rises in U.S. interest rates this year.
quot;And that #39;s the way it is, quot; Walter Cronkite, the venerable anchorman of CBS News, used to say. Here #39;s the way it is now: Americans don #39;t take the news on trust.
Automotive parts supplier ArvinMeritor Inc. (ARM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday said it plans to sell two businesses that account for about $1
In a nod to Wall Streets frustrations with his companys repeated failure to meet earnings expectations, Coca-Cola CEO Neville Isdell on Thursday cut Cokes long-term forecasts while announcing a big boost in annual marketing dollars.
HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (0291.HK) said it will issue 57.97 million new shares to its parent China Resources (Holdings) Co.
Negotiations over a new contract for D.C. hotel workers broke off early Monday as the union and representatives of 14 major hotels reported little progress in resolving the impasse between them.
The low-carbohydrate American beer Miller Lite, which is locked in a bitter brand war with its rival Bud Lite, was the star performer for SABMiller, helping the brewer to a 28 rise in half-year underlying operating profits.
Two separate reports indicate that Dell has continued to hold--and even extended--its lead in the PC market, defined as desktops, mobile computers (not PDAs), and x86 servers.
Marking what the companies believe is the beginning of continued cooperation in next-generation manufacturing technology, Toshiba Corp.
Centene Corp. (CNC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , which sells Medicaid government health insurance plans, on Tuesday said the acquisition of two new health plans would add to 2005 earnings, pushing its shares up 13 percent.
Boston entrepreneur Philip Guarino once thought that running a small enterprise would be a piece of cake. ''Having an MBA, I didn't think I'd need any direction," he said.
McDonald's Corp. said on Monday that Charlie Bell, its 44-year-old president and chief executive, had stepped down to focus on battling cancer just seven months after assuming the top post at the world's largest fast-food company.
Stocks fell slightly on Monday after a meeting of rich and developing nations offered no resolution to arrest the dollar's fall, adding to worries about the U.S. economy and foreigners' appetite for U.S. stocks.
SOARING global energy demand will leave the West increasingly in thrall to the Middle East, the worlds energy watchdog said yesterday.
Children's Place Retail Stores Inc. on Wednesday said it will buy Walt Disney Co.'s chain of North American retail stores and pledged to invest #36;100 million in them.
US stocks fell on Thursday, hit by a sharp drop in technology shares following a slew of sales warnings from semiconductor makers, and as oil prices rose nearly $1 a barrel.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Don Evans on Tuesday brushed off financial market concerns about America's massive trade deficit and stressed that a recent sharp uptick was fueled in part by surging energy prices.
Merger will make buyer No. 3 in marketMerger to make Penn National 3rd biggest casino operator. BILOXI - Penn National Gaming Inc.
M amp;T Bank Corp. said Tuesday that its profit jumped 19 percent for the quarter ended Sept. 30, helped by a slight rise in interest income and loans during the period.
Marsh amp; McLennan said late Thursday that five directors, who are also executives at the insurance broker, have stepped down from the board.
Oil prices fell sharply yesterday after briefly surpassing $54 US a barrel despite nagging concerns that the global supply buffer is too thin to handle a significant disruption of output.
_ A jury has ruled that Union Carbide was not fraudulent in how it sold asbestos for use by Kelly-Moore Paints in its interior finishing products.
Ebookers, the travel website, is being sold to US hotel and car rental giant Cendant in a 209m deal that means a huge windfall for chief executive Dinesh Dhamija.
Oil prices stepped back from this week's eight percent rout on Friday, holding well above $50 a barrel as analysts said it would take more than China's mild interest rate rise to stem demand growth from the world's second largest user.
Ilford Imaging, the world's largest producer of black and white camera film, is up for sale after going into administration.
Won #39;t confirm reports of 6,000, or 10 of the airline #39;s work force; may terminate pension plan. BRUSSELS, Belgium (Reuters) - The head of UAL Corp.
Nokia (NOK1V.HE: Quote, Profile, Research) , the world #39;s largest mobile phone maker, expects slowing mobile phone growth in 2005 but plans to launch
Electronic Data Systems Corp., which has delayed its quarterly earnings three times, reported larger third-quarter losses after taking a $375 million charge on its beleaguered Navy contract.
LONDON British Airways reported a 26 percent increase in second-quarter profit on Monday, but warned that it expected a tough winter, as fuel prices remain high, and competition stiff.
The 12th annual Kettle Kick-off Holiday Luncheon on Thursday raised $150,305 for Christmas food baskets, meals, toys and other services for needy people during the holidays and throughout the year.
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said it does not expect the US Food and Drug Administration to provide an answer on whether it can conduct a clinical
British Airways is in prime position for Europe #39;s most attractive potential airlines merger but analysts say strict ownership laws bar any speedy deal with Spain #39;s Iberia.
General Motors Corp. (GM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) and Ford Motor Co. (FN: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday posted weaker US vehicle sales for October after
South Africa's biggest retail bank says it is close to announcing a deal for Barclays to take a majority stake in its business.
The yen kept most gains against the dollar on Thursday after rallying to a four-week peak, but investors saw no reason to push it higher due to growing uncertainty about the outlook for the Japanese economy.
Oil prices continued their recent slide as optimism that supply would hold up this winter had more traders shifting money out of energy markets.
THERE has been no sudden and dramatic change in the gold price or the Australian dollar price against the US dollar to account for a deterioration in Sons of Gwalia #39;s gold reserves serious enough to tip the company into administration.
Quebecor World Inc., targeted by labour allegations of union-busting tactics, has been named in more charges from the National Labor Relations Board in the United States.
Chad K. Gifford is retiring earlier than initially expected as chairman of Bank of America, a title he gained when the bank acquired FleetBoston Financial Corp.
Microsoft Corp. MSFT.O and cable television provider Comcast Corp. CMCSA.O said on Monday that they would begin deploying set-top boxes powered by Microsoft software starting next week.
catapulted by more expensive energy and food - soared last month by the largest amount in more than 14 years. With inflation at the producer level accelerating sharply after months of being
Japan's Nikkei average moved in a tight range until late morning trade on Friday, underpinned by solid gains in stocks dependent on domestic business, such as Kao Corp.
The more than 5,000 US Airways flight attendants represented by the Association of Flight Attendants overwhelmingly voted in favor of possible strikes against the carrier.
quot;We believe that Oracle has nominated this slate to allow Oracle to purchase PeopleSoft for an inadequate price that does not reflect the Company #39;s real value, quot; PeopleSoft said in a statement.
A plant used to stem the hunger pangs of African tribes could soon be added to the meals of obese westerners desperate to lose their excess pounds.
MOSCOW : The battered Russian oil giant Yukos said a Moscow court had frozen its 34.5 percent stake in rival Sibneft, halting a reversal of their merger that would provide cash for Yukos to settle massive tax bills.
THE rise in the price of crude oil over the last several months has brought the 11 members of Opec an unprecedented windfall, so much so it has revealed some cracks within what was supposedly the cartel #39;s public unity on prices.
Vivendi Universal on Tuesday reported a sharply wider half-year net loss of 1.86 billion euros ( $2.28 billion), hit by currency translation losses linked to its entertainment
Opec members have split on whether their output should be increased in a bid to boost global supply that might cause oil prices to drop.
TIME Warner has reported an eight per cent drop in third-quarter net profit as it set up a 270 million legal reserve and said it will restate results for AOL Europe prior to 2002.
Retail sales during the important Thanksgiving weekend showed some strength, with sales measures released Monday reflecting year-over-year growth.
The US Food and Drug Administration Friday said it had approved Tarceva (erlotinib) tablets for patients with metastatic lung cancer.
The dollar sank to a record low against the euro and fell to its lowest level since January 2000 on the yen on Thursday as the market tested how far Japan and Europe would tolerate yen and euro gains on dollar weakness.
United Airlines agreed Friday to hire a consulting firm to review its pending business plan, a step sought by two unions in exchange for dropping legal action against the carrier.
The pressure on US Airways mounted last night after talks with its pilots aimed at cutting nearly $300m (163m) in costs broke down.
That #39;s the early forecast from the National Retail Federation, which sees sales escalating at a quot;moderate quot; 4.5 percent clip over last year #39;s robust results.
Wine and spirits maker Brown-Forman Corp. said Friday that heavy trading volume of its Class B common shares was due to sales from a quot;non-affiliate Brown family trust.
New Delhi: The United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government on Wednesday hiked foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the civil aviation sector from 40 to 49 per cent but barred foreign airlines from holding stakes.
Kroll Inc., an investigation and risk consulting company owned by Marsh amp; McLennan Cos. Inc. (MMC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , has appointed Simon Freakley as chief executive officer and president.
Oracle co-president Safra Catz said today Oracle's hostile $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft could drop by one-third to one-fourth.
Shares of Tommy Hilfiger Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TOM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">TOM.N</A> fell as much as 26 percent on Monday after a federal grand jury subpoenaed documents on commissions paid to a foreign subsidiary of the clothing maker.
A site for cut-rate Apple products has amassed a loyal following by taking the unusual approach of relying on readers for bargain-hunting tips.
Merck amp; Co. #39;s decision to pull its Vioxx anti-arthritis drug from the markets due to severe side effects left pharmaceutical sector mixed Thursday.
The world will be living with volatile oil prices for years to come, but this year #39;s price spike should not be serious enough to push the country into a recession, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said on Friday.
The European Commission on Wednesday expanded its investigation to determine whether public institutions in Europe gave an unfair advantage to Intel Corp.
but winds up costing consumers tens of millions of dollars a year - is being scaled back by two of the nation #39;s biggest cell phone carriers.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) is close to settling a class action lawsuit for $220 million stemming from allegations that it colluded with other brokerages to mislead Enron Corp.
The queue of newly jobless Americans shrank last week, providing a dose of good news to the labor market.
Eight months after their contract expired, London #39;s outside workers remain without a new deal. Contract talks are not scheduled and none have been held since June when new city manager Jeff Fielding arrived
Or it could be that double-digit declines in mobile phone sales in the first quarter suggested that they go with the country #39;s largest wireless service provider instead.
South African mining group Harmony has lost the latest round in a hostile takeover of rival Gold Fields when a court rejected an urgent attempt to appeal against a ruling frustrating its bid to create the world #39;s largest gold producer
Gordon Brown has not yet done enough to reduce the UK #39;s budget deficit, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday, before demanding that he explain whether
This fourth priority #39;s main focus has been improving or obtaining CRM and ERP software for the past year and a half. Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer has ruled out acting as the white knight for business software
The University of California at Berkeley and the government of Samoa have agreed to split profits from any AIDS drug researchers develop from a rainforest tree.
With poker's popularity growing because of televised tournaments, retailers are betting that playing cards and chips will be among the must-have items during the holiday shopping season.
Early in 2002, Commerce Insurance of Webster placed a nearly $23,000 bet on the gubernatorial candidacy of Democrat Shannon O'Brien.
The food at the Federal Corrections Camp in Alderson, W.Va., apparently is nothing to write home about - unless one is eating it with Martha Stewart.
US Airways Group Inc. said yesterday that sharply rising fuel costs in recent weeks have made the bankrupt airline's already dismal financial outlook even more acute.
Sarbanes-Oxley is a powerful tool for the SEC. It could also be very helpful for corporate raiders.
The US trade deficit, propelled by a record foreign oil bill, surged to $54 billion (R355 billion) in August, the second-highest level in history.
PepsiCo Inc. , the world's No. 2 soft drink company, said on Thursday quarterly profit rose due to tax benefits.
One person was killed and 18 injured in clashes in Iran linked to the collapse of an Islamic loan fund, Iranian state TV reports.
The competition between the country #39;s two satellite radio companies began as a race to the stars, with each fighting to be the first to launch satellites into space.
US Food and Drug Administration staff reviewers on Tuesday questioned clinical data for non-Hodgkin #39;s lymphoma drug Marqibo, made by Inex Pharmaceuticals Corp.
Wall Street was set to open slightly firmer on Thursday, recovering some lost ground after Wednesday's sell-off, but lofty crude prices and worry about profit warnings will cap investor enthusiasm.
Nike Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NKE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">NKE.N</A>, the world's largest athletic shoe company, on Monday reported higher quarterly profit on strong demand for its namesake products in the United States.
Cambridge Heart Inc. , a small, publicly traded company based in Bedford, has suffered a setback in its bid to persuade Medicare to mandate its tests for a registry of implantable defibrillator patients.
Beginning Wednesday, an unusual mix of Hollywood moguls, high-powered corporate directors and legal scholars will train their eyes on a relatively tiny courtroom in Georgetown, Del.
Shares of Herndon-based government information technology contractor DigitalNet gained as much as 27 percent in Monday trading, after a weekend buyout offer from BAE Systems.
The Nikkei average was flat in mid-morning trade on Wednesday, bolstered by bargain-hunting of a number of blue-chip stocks after U.S. stocks showed resilience despite a rise in oil prices to new highs.
The Boston law firm Testa, Hurwitz amp; Thibeault yesterday named F. George Davitt its managing partner.
Hotel owner Host Marriott Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">HMT.N</A> on Wednesday said its third-quarter loss narrowed as revenue per room rose, driven by an increase in room rates.
Consumer products company Jarden Corp. (JAH.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it would buy American Household Inc. for $745.
Colgate-Palmolive said today that it would close about a third of its 81 factories and cut more than 4,400 jobs over the next four years in a major effort to increase profit margins pressured by global competition.
The stock of Ivax Corp., a maker of generic drugs, fell to a 52-week low Monday after the company said competitive pricing hurt its third-quarter results, causing them to fall short of Wall Street #39;s expectations.
Air Canada has agreed to buy 30 Canadair Regional Jets from Bombardier Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BBDb.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BBDb.TO</A> in a contract valued at $821 million, the companies said on Monday, but the order falls 15 jets short of an earlier plan.
It speaks of grateful grannies and bowing bread-earners as Munificence plc divides between its investors excess booty earned from triumph on commerce #39;s high seas.
In the first major trial to test a drug only in blacks, an experimental drug developed by NitroMed Inc. added to standard therapy helped heart failure patients live significantly longer, researchers on Monday said.
In shift of tone, White House says high energy prices are now dragging on US economy. CRAWFORD, Texas (Reuters) - President Bush #39;s economic advisers are warning that high energy prices have become a drag on
A U.S. advisory panel began meeting Monday to debate whether certain antidepressants should come with stronger warnings about the chances of suicidal behavior in children and teens who take the drugs.
The shipping giant P amp;O, under increasing pressure from low-cost airlines and the Channel tunnel, today revealed plans to cut four ferry routes and slash its workforce by 1,200.
Russian oil major YUKOS said on Wednesday it had filed for bankruptcy protection in a US court and would seek an order from the court to halt the Dec. 19 sale by the Russian state of its main oil unit.
Plans to revamp the euro #39;s battered rulebook won key backing yesterday, as the European Commission bowed to the inevitable and called for more flexible implementation of the single currency #39;s widely flouted rules.
Shares in Bombardier Inc. fell to new lows Monday, partly due to the crash of another of its jets on Sunday, the third fatal crash of a Bombardier aircraft in two months.
Frank #39;s Nursery amp; Crafts, the lawn and garden retailer, declared bankruptcy Wednesday for the second time, and said it will start going-out-of-business sales as soon as it receives approval from Bankruptcy Court.
com September 16, 2004, 7:58 AM PT. This fourth priority #39;s main focus has been improving or obtaining CRM and ERP software for the past year and a half.
BEIJING: A top Chinese commerce official said Monday that General Motors Corp. hasn #39;t provided enough evidence to prove that a local company copied one of its car models.
BellSouth's approach to business has been stable, disciplined, anything but flashy. But now the company is slowly shedding its conservative approach.
US stocks opened slightly lower on Monday as chip maker Intel Corp. (INTC.O: Quote, Profile, Research) fell after a broker downgrade, weakening technology shares, while a drop in crude
Chancellor Gordon Brown tells the CBI his mission is to build a "shared national economic purpose".
Japan #39;s top carmaker Toyota Motor said its interim net profit rose 11.4 percent to a record 584 billion yen (5.5 billion dollars) thanks to brisk sales both at home and overseas.
Massachusetts Attorney General Thomas F. Reilly and the state Division of Insurance have each opened separate investigations of insurance companies and brokers to determine if any engaged in price fixing or other illegal sales practices that cheated customers out of the best prices for policies.
Ofcom today published its proposals to support the growth of greater competition, innovation and investment certainty in the UK telecommunications sector.
Oil prices rise again after US government data showed heating stocks remained 16 down on 2003 levels.
Shares of Genentech Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DNA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DNA.N</A>, OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=OSIP.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">OSIP.O</A> and ImClone Systems Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IMCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">IMCL.O</A> surged before the bell on Friday after rival AstraZeneca Plc <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AZN.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">AZN.L</A> said its lung cancer drug Iressa failed to show survival benefits in a major clinical study.
Almost one-third of Mesa Countys employers plan to hire additional workers during the final three months of this year, according to a survey by a nationwide temporary-services firm.
Pilots at US Airways Group Inc. resumed negotiations Wednesday with management on a new labor contract with the bankrupt airline, even as the company made clear that it will now be seeking greater concessions.
Citizens Energy boss Joe Kennedy, like his famous uncle Ted, opposes the huge wind farm proposal in Nantucket Sound, his backyard. But the "Call Joe-4-Oil" Kennedy is working hard to also become "Joe-4-Wind" elsewhere.
Bachelor, Master and Post-Grad degrees online from accredited colleges and universities. Business, Education, IT, Healthcare, more. Browse by degree or program. Request info and get started today.
Tight oil supplies could leave the global economy worryingly vulnerable for years to come, a senior International Monetary Fund official said on Thursday.
When solution providers look back on Symantec #39;s acquisition of Veritas Software, they will likely remember it as the moment security and storage officially became joined at the hip.
As his term as EU executive head comes to an end, Romano Prodi called the EU #39;s efforts to catch up economically with the United States quot;a big failure.
the sixth strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic - was 70 miles south-southeast of the western tip of Cuba around 2 pm on Monday.
Americans made more payments electronically than with checks in 2003, making it the first year electronic transactions surpassed paper payments, according to studies released Monday by the Federal Reserve #39;s financial services policy committee.
Japan's economy barely grew during the quarter ending Sept. 30 and in the April-June period it actually shrank instead of squeezing out slight growth, according to revised government data released Wednesday.
GENEVA: International airlines are heading for a near $US5 billion ( $NZ7.12 billion) loss this year, largely due to a rise in oil prices, the industry #39;s global body said on Tuesday.
German bank WestLB is to sell its stake in Europe's largest travel group TUI, owners of the Thomson and Lunn Poly brands.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--Stockland (SGP.AU) said Thursday it will pay A $825 million, plus working capital of A $21 million, for Lensworth, the property development business of Foster #39;s Group Ltd.
Bacardi Ltd. Monday said President and Chief Executive Officer Javier Ferran has resigned for family reasons after more than 18 years with the distiller.
Oil closed above $55 a barrel Friday for the first time as traders worried about low stockpiles of heating oil and strong economic growth in China.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">WMT.N</A> on Monday said it plans to increase its store space by 8 percent in the fiscal year beginning in February, including 240 to 250 more Supercenters and 40 to 45 new discount stores.
RAND is not unique among government contractors in continuing to do business with the government after being found in violation of labor law.
Asian shares were mostly flat to lower on Monday as investors kept a wary eye on stabilizing oil prices and looked past signs Japanese consumers were beginning to spend more freely.
The EU is set to back former trade commissioner Pascal Lamy for the top job at the WTO. A meeting of trade chiefs from the 25 member states agreed on the Frenchmans candidacy on Tuesday.
SAN FRANCISCO Intel, the largest semiconductor maker, has reported that its profit for the third quarter rose 15 percent from a year earlier, though it continued to struggle with an inventory glut that has reduced its profit margins.
Donald Trump #39;s casino company expects to decided in the next couple of weeks whether it can reach a new debt restructuring deal with bond holders, sell assets or whether Trump will take the company private, executive vice president
U.S. blue-chip stocks slid lower on Thursday, pulled down by industrial bellwether Caterpillar Inc. , but technology shares remained higher after eBay Inc. posted strong earnings.
Business confidence is rising in Hong Kong with a third of companies saying that economic prospects will improve in 2005.
Aviva Plc, the fifth largest insurer globally, will hire about 3,300 more people in India and Sri Lanka by 2007, as part of its strategy to outsource some of its life and non-life services.
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) suffered a setback this week when a committee of creditors scotched one of the company #39;s early debt renegotiation
A kibitzer said I should write about the decline of the truck market. He figured I would be ahead of the curve in saying that this market has peaked from oversaturation, changing consumer tastes, rising gas prices and the recent appearance of some very attractive sedans and wagons.
China will loom large over an Asia-Pacific summit in Chile, with the United States hoping that Beijing will loosen a fixed yuan-dollar link and cool, but not freeze, its red-hot economy.
Oil prices climbed Friday, closing above $55 a barrel for the first time, on worries that supplies will be stretched thin this winter while demand from China remains solid.
10/07/04 - Whatever meager goodwill was gained by the move yesterday - albeit tardy - by Congress to act on the contentious Foreign Sales Corporation - Extraterritorial Income Act (FSC-ETI) export tax mechanism has
Financial Secretary Henry Tang said Monday that Hong Kong #39;s extended streak of deflation is officially over after 68 months. quot;According to the trend of the consumer price index of the past few months, I believe
A Secret Service ink expert was acquitted yesterday of lying on the stand at Martha Stewart #39;s trial, a case the homemaking expert seized on in her bid to have her conviction thrown out.
CHINA has raised its interest rates for the first time in nine years to curb inflation and stop its fast-growing economy overheating.
Allstate Corp. (ALL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the No. 2 US home and auto insurer, warned on Wednesday its third-quarter profits would fall well short of expectations due to more than $1 billion in hurricane-related payouts.
TOKYO : Japanese automaker Honda is to spend 340 million dollars to quadruple capacity at its joint plant with Dongfeng Motor in Wuhan, China, to 120,000 units by 2006.
Delta Air Lines Inc. is on the brink of filing for bankruptcy, with the coming weeks critical. This weekend, the airline continues negotiations with its pilots union in Hollywood in order
US manufacturers cranked out more goods in recent weeks, while auto dealers moved more vehicles off their lots and trucking companies tried to find enough drivers to keep up with growing demand.
Announced job cuts in the technology sector soared 60 in the third quarter to 54,701, the highest figure since the fourth quarter of 2003 (82,328).
The European Commission approved Oracle #39;s proposed $7.7 billion hostile takeover of rival software company PeopleSoft on Tuesday, knocking down the last competition hurdle to the deal.
NEW YORK The dollar firmed against the euro on Tuesday, finding support from a growing chorus of European officials expressing concerns over the rapid ascent of their currency.
The European Commission on Friday said it was scrutinising a French tax scheme under which Vivendi Universal unlocked 3.8 billion ( $4.
The Office of Fair Trading has set the clock ticking on the process that could see the Barclay brothers #39; deal to buy the Daily Telegraph reviewed by competition watchdogs.
New York state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer is preparing to file his second civil suit against an insurance broker, San Diego, Calif.
Williams-Sonoma Inc., operator of home furnishing chains including Pottery Barn, said third-quarter earnings rose 19 percent, boosted by store openings and catalog sales.
Home appliance maker Whirlpool Corp. on Wednesday said third-quarter earnings fell, hurt by raw material cost increases and high oil prices, and guided its annual earnings estimate lower.
Media stocks opened mixed Tuesday, with Viacom and Sony among the largest percentage gainers. Free! Sign up here to receive our After the Bell Report e-Newsletter!
The IMF has said it will negotiate with Argentina after the country's debt swap, that was delayed until 17 January.
Crude oil futures were little changed, after plunging 3.9 percent yesterday, the biggest decline in almost three months, as a government report showed that US gasoline supplies were higher than expected.
The vaunted political and financial skills of Fannie Mae Chief Executive Franklin Raines may not be enough to save him professionally after a scathing regulatory report last week detailed pervasive accounting lapses at the mortgage finance company.
After taking a rest in June, the nation's consumers were full of energy last month, boosting their spending by a strong 0.8 percent, a hopeful sign the economy may be emerging from a summer funk.
Deutsche Telekom, the largest European phone company, on Thursday raised its forecast for net income in 2004 and said it planned to pay its first dividend in three years, after its third-quarter profit more than doubled.
With Oracle #39;s $9.2 billion tender offer for PeopleSoft set to expire Friday, David A. Duffield, PeopleSoft #39;s chief executive, accused Oracle on Thursday of spreading
Coca-Cola Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KO.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">KO.N</A>, amid signs that is it losing market share to arch rival Pepsi, on Wednesday warned that profit would lag Wall Street expectations for the rest of the year because of weakness in key markets and said there was no quick fix for its problems.
Air New Zealand will increase services to Western Australia, operating daily direct services between Auckland and Perth during the Australian summer.
PITTSBURGH The board of directors of the United States #39; largest flight attendants union today unanimously approved a resolution authorizing a nationwide strike.
National Foods Ltd., Australia #39;s biggest fresh milk supplier, increased second-half profit by 12 percent after selling more specialty cheeses and gourmet foods.
Bombardier Inc. shares fell to a historic low yesterday, the day after a New York bond rating agency cut the company #39;s debt rating to junk status, the latest bad news for the struggling transportation equipment giant.
Agriculture officials are testing plant samples from three Louisiana parishes and one Mississippi county for the fungus soybean rust, which damages crop production and forces farmers to use costly fungicide treatments.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission voted 5-0 on Tuesday to propose sweeping changes in how companies offer stock, including eliminating the so-called pre-offer "quiet period" for very large companies.
ORACLE IS considering dropping its hostile $7.7 billion bid for rival software maker PeopleSoft by one-third to one-fourth. Oracle co-president Safra Catz said that having seen PeopleSoft #39;s 2004 performance
US car thieves looking for newer models prefer the Cadillac Escalade EXT, a luxury pickup, and the Nissan Maxima, a midsize sedan.
Stocks rose on Tuesday, with blue chips touching a 2-month high, as oil prices fell and investors were encouraged by positive profit news from a number of companies.
na tough year on Wall Street, Israel A. Englander should be riding high. His $3.5 billion in hedge funds are up more than 8 percent - at a time when the stock market is barely up for the year.
WASHINGTON : The US economy will grow solidly in 2005 despite high oil prices, no matter whether President George W. Bush or John Kerry is in the White House, top business economists said.
Oil prices eased on Tuesday as fears of supply disruptions in Venezuela and Russia receded following a convincing referendum victory for Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and after Russia's YUKOS said it had received an assurance on September exports.
A look at this West Coast retailer reveals a market-crushing year-to-date run.
The number of Americans lining up to claim an initial week of jobless aid climbed more than expected last week, primarily because of hurricanes that have battered Florida, putting many people out of work, the government said on Thursday.
The blue-chip Dow Jones average was knocked lower on Thursday after drug maker Merck Co.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MRK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MRK.N</A>, a member of the Dow, recalled its widely sold Vioxx painkiller and oil prices hovered around $50 a barrel.
Your name is synonymous with searching the Internet, and you #39;ve just raised roughly $1.7 billion from investors by going public.
Two Montgomery County Council members who supported a campaign by employees of Comcast Cable Communications to form a union have been subpoenaed by company attorneys in a federal labor relations case involving a Rockville man who says he was illegally fired by the firm.
President Bush said on Wednesday a renewed drive to cut US budget deficits should help the weak dollar and that Tuesday #39;s Federal Reserve interest-rate hike showed Alan
Nortel Networks Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">NT.TO</A>, one of the world's largest makers of telecoms equipment, said on Wednesday it would miss by about two weeks its end of October deadline to release long-awaited restated financial results.
Mobile operator Vimpelcom is the latest Russian firm to be hit with a heavy bill for back taxes
Unocal Corp. and the Royal Dutch/Shell Group are withdrawing from a project to exploit oil and gas in the East China Sea, the companies said Wednesday, citing quot;commercial reasons.
NEW YORK Time Warner on Monday withdrew its bid for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer after failing to reach agreement on a price for the film studio controlled by billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian.
LONDON, August 18 (New Ratings) The insolvent Italian dairy food product company, Parmalat Finanziaria SpA (PAF.FSE), filed a lawsuit against its former auditors, Deloitte amp; Touche and Grant Thornton, today, seeking damages of at least $10 billion.
The Canadian arm of a huge tobacco company has asked a Quebec court to stop a provincial lawsuit claiming $1.4 billion in unpaid taxes on smuggled cigarettes.
Japanese game maker Nintendo Co. raised its earnings outlook for its fiscal first half, saying Monday a strong US dollar had helped its business.
Homemaking icon Martha Stewart on Wednesday said she wants to start serving her jail sentence for lying about a suspicious stock sale as soon as possible, so she can put her "nightmare" behind her and be home in time to plant her garden for spring.
GENEVA : A movement to counter the abolition of textile and clothing import quotas at the end of the year is gaining momentum, driven by fears that an unbridled China could wipe out competition because of its sheer production capacity, diplomats said.
Standard Poor's on Friday said ratings on about $30 billion of aircraft-backed debt could be threatened if creditors lost a legal dispute with bankrupt UAL Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=UALAQ.OB target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">UALAQ.OB</A> unit United Airlines over the right to repossess aircraft.
US textile-trade groups said yesterday that they would pursue safeguards that target the threat of Chinese imports flooding the US market once quotas expire Jan. 1. The groups - the American
GM is showcasing a range of near, mid- and long-term solutions for cleaner, sustainable transportation at China #39;s Challenge Bibendum, which is being held in Shanghai from October 12-14.
Discount retailer Kmart Holding Corp. said Monday that it named Aylwin Lewis as president and chief executive and a director, effective immediately.
Crude futures in New York settled 1.4 percent lower Monday, as Iraq #39;s resumption of some oil exports gave cause for mild profit-taking.
Yukos suffered a double blow Tuesday when the Moscow Arbitration Court rejected attempts by the oil major to cover part of a $3.4 billion bill in back taxes and postpone collection of the claim.
Media giant News Corp is planning a defence to block anyone from challenging the Murdoch family's control of the firm.
Hillenbrand Industries Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HB.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">HB.N</A>, which makes medical equipment and caskets, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose ten-fold, capping a year that saw sales helped by acquisitions.
Global Building Services Inc., a Newhall, Calif.-based company that provided janitorial services to Target stores in California, Arizona, Nevada and Texas, has agreed to pay $1.
A former executive at the Gaithersburg biotechnology firm MedImmune Inc. is scheduled to plead guilty today to criminal charges related to his allegedly improper stock trades, according to court papers.
Republican gains in the Senate from last month's elections have pumped new life into the administration-backed move to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drilling, prompting environmentalists to mount what one of them called "the fight of our lives" to defeat the proposal.
A fresh round of mass demonstrations over proposed cuts in welfare spending is set to take place in Germany.
quot;These things tend to be decided by egos as much as by financial logic, but HBoS has shown its ability with a level head to walk away from a deal.
A proposal for a $1.4 billion stadium for the New York Jets professional football team inched ahead on Thursday as the Empire State Development Corp.
British Airways (BAI1.FSE) has cancelled about 1,000 inbound and outbound flights from London #39;s Heathrow Airport over the next three months.
Chinese officials urged Russias biggest oil exporter Yukos Oil Company to stand by its earlier commitments to export crude oil to China.
U.S. chain store sales rose in the week ended December 4, as average sales were generally ahead of last year, but customer counts were down, a report said on Tuesday.
Chief among the trade disputes on the table will be a disagreement over the United States' 27 percent duty on Canadian softwood lumber.
Tokyo stocks fell Friday morning as investors sold banking issues after Japanese authorities began a criminal investigation into UFJ Holding Inc.
High foreign ownership of US debt is quot;a healthy situation quot; and the dollar will remain the world #39;s preferred reserve currency, Treasury Secretary John Snow said on Friday.
U.S. mortgage finance giant Fannie Mae said on Wednesday a Securities and Exchange Commission decision that it must restate earnings over accounting problems is likely to cut into its capital position.
Shoppers spent more freely in July as consumer spending rose slightly, though tepid growth in personal income raised concern about whether the trend will continue.
Microsoft's security-minded SP2 update to Windows XP finally makes it out the door, but not without stumbling.
The US Department of Homeland Security this week awarded BearingPoint Inc. a $229 million IT contract to help consolidate and manage the agency #39;s vast financial resources and assets.
The government gives the green-light to internet-only pharmacies in England.
AN AUSSIE teacher has quit after 35 years after his students threatened him on a web page. Greg Frawley was one of about 10 teachers threatened on the page set up by students at Hurlstone Agricultural High School.
news - research) unveiled two new editions of the iPod intended to spike sales of the portable music players in the crucial Christmas selling season.
SAP, the world's leading maker of business software, said it was not concerned by the creation of a new number two in the sector via the merger of rivals Oracle and Peoplesoft in the United States.
It may take much longer than scientists have thought for violent turbulence to turn grains of space dust into new planets.
Vodafone, the world #39;s largest mobile phone operator, today finally launched its third generation (3G) services as it seeks to recoup 16.
Mountaineers are planting junipers on ledges to prevent them from being eaten by hungry sheep.
Mobile telephones are one of the most quickly discarded items of consumer electronics. Rapid changes in technology and taste means customers constantly upgrade their phones leaving behind more and more discarded phones.
Sharman Networks was able to filter Kazaa to prevent copyright infringement, but instead chose to build a massive user base for advertising revenue, the Federal Court heard on day one of the peer-to-peer provider #39;s widely-anticipated trial.
StreamCast has formally asked the US Supreme Court to reject the request made by the Motion Picture Ass. of America (MPAA) and Recording Industry Ass.
It's time to get down to business for stem-cell scientists and administrators after the tremendous boost they received from the passage of California's Proposition 71. Two advisory board appointments have been made; there are 25 to go.
T-Mobile is pitching its against the likes of Apple and Creative with a new smart phone specifically (nominally) designed for digital music playback.
Police said on Monday they have arrested a 20-year-old British man on suspicion of stealing Cisco Systems <A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=CSCO.O qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news">CSCO.O</A> source code, the basic instructions for the machines that direct Internet traffic across the globe.
Cisco has lifted the lid on two remote backup and disaster recovery products targeted at the growing number of companies building long-distance links between datacentres.
A team of researchers is evaluating how Linux and Mac OS X stack up against Windows for internal use.
China #39;s second manned space flight will carry two astronauts into space and will orbit the Earth for five days. The country #39;s space authorities made the announcement about the mission, which is scheduled for
Could that ancient practice of bleeding patients really have done some good? A scientist says new research on how germs thrive in the body suggests it just may have #151; for some people.
Taiwan's telecommunications industry will need at least another two years before third-generation (3G) mobile phone services generate meaningful revenues, an industry chief executive was quoted in the Financial Times as saying.
<strong>IDF Fall '04</strong> They really mean it this time
Because his job involves driving around on Mars all day, Cornell University astronomer Steve Squyres is glad he no longer has to make a cross-country commute to get home.
Europe #39;s first mission to the moon, the unmanned probe SMART-1, has been safely placed in orbit, the European Space Agency (ESA) announced on Tuesday.
After weeks of negotiations, the U.S. Senate could take action this week on a bill that would make it easier to sue "peer-to-peer" networks like Kazaa and LimeWire that allow users to copy music and movies over the Internet.
news - people ) said it broke even for the fiscal first quarter, topping analysts #39; estimates.
At the top of Billboard magazine's Hot Ringtones chart: Snoop Dogg and Pharrell's "Drop It Like It's Hot."
Hewlett-Packard has jumped on the RFID bandwagon, embracing the wireless tracking technology aimed at replacing the decades-old product bar code.
This conclusion comes from US and Chinese scientists who today announce the discovery of a 130m-year-old forerunner of the lumbering Cretaceous predator.
REPORT FINDINGS: Stocks of krill, a shrimp-like crustacean, have declined about 80 percent since the 1970s in ocean waters near the Antarctic Peninsula.
The browser market lives, and IT executives should be open-minded about using Firefox and other alternatives. The browser market lives.
IBM Corp has signed a seven-year deal to manage the voice and data services of London, UK-based financial institution Lloyds TSB. The contract is estimated to be worth $972.5 million.
Google Inc. on Wednesday introduced a new search technology to help publishers sell books online, a fast-growing market dominated by Internet retailer Amazon.com.
Canadian scientists at an international symposium on climate change say a new report shows the Kyoto Protocol agreement on limiting fossil fuel emissions is not enough to slow the potentially disastrous warming of the planet.
The compact disc has at least another five years as the most popular music format before online downloads chip away at its dominance, a new study said on Tuesday.
While a great deal of the data residing within organisations today is not accessed regularly, the ECT Act as well as basic business strategy maintains that this seldom accessed data is business-critical.
A University of Colorado study has embarked on demonstrating that new planets can be found with the help of an orbiting starshade. The method has been compared to building a giant pinhole camera in space.
SBC Communications unveiled a $19.95 price for its DSL service, but only if customers buy a wire line phone service for $48.95.
A man who purported to offer rare sports cards including that of baseball legend Mickey Mantle has been charged with defrauding eBay (EBAY.
<strong>Analysis</strong> Too expensive to bury it <em>in</em> MS?
America Online, Inc. is reported to be developing a Web browser based on Microsoft Internet Explorer technology. It is not known when the browser will be released
Emory University Hospital has confirmed that a brain surgery patient does not have the human version of mad cow disease, but does have a rare, fatal disorder that resembles it.
Microsoft Expands MSN Music Store Download Service Microsoft expanded its MSN Music Store to eight new countries yesterday, crossing the border into major European countries that iTunes staked its claim in during its U2 fueled EU push in October. With this expansion the MSN Music Store is now accessible in 17 ...
International Business Machines Corp. has steadily lost its hold on the PC market, buffeted by made-to-order rivals such as Dell Inc. and low-cost competition from overseas. <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-The Washington Post</b></font>
Ever heard of Giant Company Software Inc? Not yet, well perhaps from today as they became Microsoft Corporations latest purchase as Microsoft try to enter the anti-spyware industry as is being portrayed.
Yesterday #39;s decision by the Federal Communications Commission to remove barriers to the delivery of broadband services over power lines may give consumers a third broadband option.
NASA officials have confirmed Russian reports about an outer-space swap worth an estimated $60 million or more. If approved by the US government, the deal could put off a looming
roundup Plus: Sprint to bake in BlackBerry for businesses...Microsoft ships updated Works...FaceTime pulls in $16 million.
JAPANESE GIANT Sharp has pulled the plug on its Linux-based PDAs in the United States as no-one seems to want them. The company said that it will continue to sell them in Japan where they sell like hot cakes
Microsoft Corp. released a critical security patch Wednesday to fix a flaw in its Internet Explorer Web browser that could allow an attacker to run malicious software on another person #39;s computer.
Nintendo Co. Ltd.'s DS video game player saw strong sales on its debut in Japan on Thursday, kicking off what is expected to be a fierce fight with rival Sony Corp.'s Playstation Portable.
Australia #39;s Mat Mladin completed a winning double at the penultimate round of this year #39;s American AMA Chevrolet Superbike Championship after taking
As information security threats have grown more lethal in the past decade, many senior executives still remain in the dark when it comes to protecting their organizations.
Filipino and British wildlife researchers say they've stumbled upon what appears to be a new species of flightless bird found only on the tiny forested island of Calayan in the northern Philippines.
Apple #39;s iPod has joined the list of gifts late holiday shoppers are finding in short supply. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Shoppers can now add the iPod to the holiday hot list.
SAN FRANCISCO--Yahoo added a search feature for cell phones Tuesday, just a few weeks after rival Google launched one of its own. While Google SMS (Short Message Service) uses text-only messages to deliver
Sybase, Inc., a leading provider of enterprise infrastructure and wireless software, deepened its commitment to the Linux community with the availability of a free deployment version of an enterprise-class Linux database-Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise
About half of Brazil's original Amazon rainforest has been occupied by man, deforested or used for industry like logging and its destruction is worse than government data shows, a leading environmental group said on Tuesday.
WASHINGTON It #39;s a global celestial event and scientists say the annual Geminid Meteor Shower is the best astronomy show of the year.
A new company thinks it has the answer to the complaints of scientists and engineers looking for high-performance computing (HPC) on the desktop. The Orion Cluster Workstation packs the power of a PC cluster into a desktop-size package using low-power chips and an innovative motherboard design.
For Rainer Kinnunen, life has been a bit of a blur since he signed up for a superhigh-speed Internet service three years ago.
The firm scraps an alliance with Moxell to bring Motorola-branded plasma TVs, LCD TVs and monitors to North America and China.
Moving against Internet crime, the Justice Department on Wednesday disrupted a network allegedly used to illegally share copyrighted files and was engaged in a series of arrests against purveyors of e-mail "spam." <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-AP</B></FONT>
Christopher Reeve's death Sunday deprives stem-cell research advocates of one of their most effective champions. But the wheels he help put in motion will continue turning, they promise.
The vendor is offering free data migration to SalesForce.com and Siebel customers and a 1-gigabyte storage upgrade for paying customers.
Veritas Software is to acquire email archiving firm KVault Software (KVS) to bolster its utility computing abilities. The traditional storage management giant will pay $225m for KVS, which will be operate
Continuing its assault on the European IT outsourcing market, IBM Corp. has signed agreements to buy two Danish IT services companies and another to provide IT services to one of the country's largest banks.
"Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" is an epic homage to the West Coast gang culture of the early 1990s. Yes, parents, there's way too much violence and profanity here for the kids. For those of us 18 and older, though, it's among the best video games this year.
quot;Magic can happen. quot; Sirius Satellite Radio (nasdaq: SIRI - news - people ) may have signed Howard Stern and the men #39;s NCAA basketball tournaments, but XM Satellite Radio (nasdaq: XMSR - news - people ) has its sights on your cell phone.
"Spy Fiction" is a covert operator's dream game. Not only does it let you become virtually invisible to your enemies, but it also gives you the power to quickly transform yourself into other characters.
(Kalamazoo County, November 12, 2004, 1:34 pm) Officials with pharmaceutical giant Pfizer are working with the Environmental Protection Agency to repair maintenance problems at its facility in Portage.
Russia successfully launched a new model of booster rocket, the Soyuz-2, on Monday following two postponements. The rocket blasted off at 9:30 pm (1830 GMT) from the Plesetsk
NETWORKING outfit Netgear said it is planning to release stuff using a wireless technology that #39;s an alternative to DSL and cable Internet access.
Two splashy Linux announcements coming from major database vendors underscore the fact that Linux is profoundly shaking up the database market.
Kazaa #39;s long-standing position as the most popular online file-sharing software appears to be over. Last month, the daily average of file-swappers on the FastTrack peer-to-peer network, which
Sun Microsystems Inc. on Tuesday was set to announce its UltraSparc IV microprocessor, the last significant upgrade to the company's processor line before it begins shipping the redesigned chips it calls "throughput computing" processors, and hands over the task of building chips for the bulk of its systems to Fujitsu Ltd.
Over objections from some drug companies, the Bush administration unveiled a new feature on the Medicare Web site comparing prices for similar brand-name drugs.
JBoss (Profile, Products, Articles) Inc. has added business process management (BPM) to its growing roster of open source software.
Dixons, the UK #39;s largest electrical retailer, has today announced plans to phase out the sale of video recorders by the end of the year.
Against an impossible deadline, a small team at Sony Cinematics Solutions Group created a two-minute animated promo to prove that a tech-savvy group could do dazzling broadcast work. Aug 13
Japanese consumer electronic giant Sony is hoping to close a deal that will give it control of the famed MGM studio in the United States.
You might not be able to morph your wallpaper just yet, but digital ink is already threatening to make big changes in the way we experience advertising.
com Staff. Storage Technology Corp. (StorageTek) has scooped up storage resource management (SRM) company Storability Software Inc.
Microsoft today announced a significant change in plans for the next major release of Windows, code-named Longhorn. The new WinFS storage subsystem will not be part of it, as had been previously planned.
Last week's spectacular barrel rolls by SpaceShipOne looked a lot more frightening than they were, the project leader says. Also: There was a forlorn face in the crowd.... Sponsors line up behind effort.... New Mexico wants a spaceport.... and more.
WEB SITE Digitimes, fresh from its typhoon traumas, reckons that Intel will highlight a dual core Pentium M codenamed Napa when it heralds its future directions at the Intel Developer Forum in September.
The universe looked a little more familiar and friendlier. The roll call of planets beyond the solar system swelled significantly with the announcement of a trio of newly-discovered worlds much smaller than any previously discovered around other stars.
In this article we will look at a means to bypass the access control restrictions of a company's router or firewall. This information is intended to provide help for those who are legitimately testing the security of a network (whether they are in-house expertise or outside consultants).
An unprecedented amount of data from a major Central California earthquake is generating new insight into how and where quakes strike, but hasn't improved scientists' ability to predict them.
NEC plans to start selling desktop PCs equipped with HD-DVD drives at the end of 2005, the company announced. Slimmed-down versions of the drives will be added to laptops in 2006.
com October 29, 2004, 12:02 PM PT. ZDNet #39;s survey of IT professionals in October kept upgrading hardware at number two on the businesses radar throughout the year.
The days of piece-meal patching and shipped updates are over as Microsoft Singapore urged users to take advantage of the Automatic Updates feature in Windows XP to upgrade to Service Pack 2 (SP2).
SEATTLE Amazon-dot-com says things are running normally again on its Web site after a sometimes sluggish Monday. A spokeswoman says the world #39;s largest Internet retailer began experiencing quot;a slowness quot; Monday morning.
Neowin was told that Microsoft is planning to release both Windows Media Player 10 and their MSN Music Store service on Thursday. The company #39;s latest version of Media Player will feature a new design, online
Coral reefs around the world could grow by up to a third because of rising ocean temperatures, according to a new Australian study which turns on its head the long-held theory that global warming is killing the reefs.
A partial solar eclipse will occur on Thursday, and will be visible in northeast China, north of the Pacific Ocean, northwest of North America and part of the Arctic Ocean.
The locusts swarming across West Africa reach northern Nigeria, devastating fields of crops.
A suspected Russian mobster is believed by U.S. law enforcement to be behind a series of phishing scams.
The three-year, $15 million deal is for Omniture's SiteCatalyst traffic analysis service.
A website is launched with the aim of educating people in Scotland to challenge racism and intolerance.
Microsoft today extended its 3-year-old agreement with Yahoo! to provide Overture paid listings on MSN sites in the US and Canada, Europe and Asia through June 2006.
A PBS documentary makes the case that Americans have tuned out marketers pitching everything from cars to candidates. The result: even more crass attempts to get through, and a fragmentation of American society.
Hurricane Frances gained strength and became a major hurricane with 115 mph winds in the Atlantic on Friday as it took a path that should carry it north of the vulnerable northeastern Caribbean islands early next week.
In many ways, Brambleton looks like any of the new housing developments that have popped up near Dulles Airport. Except coursing under its crisp green lawns and treeless streets is a fiber-optic network with Internet access at speeds once reserved for the largest corporations.<BR> <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-The Washington Post</B></FONT>
Scientists in China have found a 120 million-year-old fossil of a baby bird which is believed to have died just before it hatched and which could shed light on the relationship between dinosaurs and birds.
John, TechWeb.com. The search wars rage on. It seems as if every large e-business company thinks that search is the key to building its business to the next level.
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD.N: Quote, Profile, Research) captured nearly 10 percent of computer microchip market revenue in the third quarter, the highest level
In case you missed it, Scott McNealy #39;s big on the subscription model. And, Sun Microsystems is weighing a new desktop hosting initiative to go along with already-announced hosting options.
Chipmaker becomes the last of several well-known chip companies to begin making 90-nanometer processors.
A router and clients for both notebooks and desktops can provide Wi-Fi connectivity over either of two unlicensed radio bands.
US companies including General Motors Corp., DuPont Co. and Xerox Corp. are cutting carbon dioxide emissions to remain competitive in European countries that have adopted Kyoto Protocol limits rejected by President George W. Bush.
A new version of the Zafi e-mail worm is spreading Christmas wishes along with its malicious code, according to antivirus software companies.
While many drivers entertain back-seat passengers with DVD's like "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory," a surprising number choose racier fare.
Intel has dropped plans to turn its latest batch of chip sets into wireless access points, citing a lack of interest from PC vendors and the rising number of stand-alone access points.
Britain will run out of leading scientists unless science education is improved, says Professor Colin Pillinger.
As interest rates continue to climb, an increasing number of enterprise IT customers are shifting away from leasing to purchasing equipment such as laptops and PCs.
Microsoft Corp. plans to roll out a preview version of its new Internet search service on Thursday, according to a media report. Free!
Companies will spend more money next year on information technology and other capital investments compared with 2004, the chief executive of the world's biggest computer company, IBM Corp, said on Friday.
It may take much longer than scientists have thought for violent turbulence to turn grains of space dust into new planets. A NASA telescope recently discovered evidence that
Since rain and freshwater flooding are the number one causes of death from hurricanes in the United States over the last 30 years, better understanding of these storms is vital for insuring public safety.
One day last November in Houston, three men met for lunch. Two of them - Russian cosmonauts in training for an upcoming joint US-Russian space mission - had never met the third, a slightly built American gentleman in his seventies.
Just because Firefox is free and open source doesn #39;t mean developers aren #39;t cashing in on the popularity of the Mozilla Foundation #39;s new browser.
WASHINGTON: Online auction giant eBay Inc is toughening its offensive material policy by eliminating offensive words used as search criteria or in descriptions of items for sale.
Nearly half of video game players watched less television last year or plan to cut their viewing time this year, according to a report issued on Thursday that lends credence to industry fears that young men are switching off the tube.
Computer-security experts, including former government officials, urged the Bush administration on Tuesday to devote more effort to strengthening defenses against viruses, hackers and other online threats.
Data from the far reaches of outer space have been streaming into Dan Reisenfeld #39;s computer at the University of Montana since late Wednesday.
Links to this week's topics from search engine forums across the web: Live Reports from Search Engine Strategies San Jose 2004 - PPC Bounce Rate - Google AdWords Myths - After SEMPO: Should We Start a Trade Association? - Search Inventory vs. Conversion - Terra Sells Lycos at Yard Sale Price
AUSTRALIAN scientists are working with NASA and the French government to create an advanced space weather instrument that will go on board the STEREO (Solar-Terrestrial Relations Observatory) space mission next year.
The analytics and reporting software maker will begin selling IBM's mainframe access software.
Even before Burt Rutans SpaceShipOne soared on her second flight in six days to win the Ansari X Prize, the flamboyant British entrepreneur Sir Richard Branson, owner of Virgin Atlantic Airline, decided that he had seen an opportunity to make even more
In the shadow of Oracle, an upbeat Craig Conway seeks to sooth customers at PeopleSoft's annual convention.
Global Warming is a hot topic that shows little sign of cooling down. Earth's climate <i>is</i> changing, but just how it's happening, and our own role in the process, is less certain. <b>Includes photo gallery.</b>
A report from National Academy of Sciences released today recommends that NASA scrap plans to service the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) robotically and instead use a space shuttle to get the job done as originally planned.
NEW YORK For the second day in a row, the Los Angeles Times and USA Today were the only newspaper sites to shift their electoral-college numbers in E P's exclusive tracking of seven major newspaper Web sites with electoral-college maps.
A newly discovered fossil might be the remains of one of the first stealth hunters, a swimming dinosaur that could use its long neck to sneak up on prey and strike without warning.
TWITCHERS should book their plane tickets as soon as possible. Wildlife experts yesterday claimed to have discovered a new species of bird in the Philippines. But they immediately warned that the flightless Calayan rail could be driven to extinction by ...
Wildlife authorities in Australia plan to implant contraceptive hormones into 2,000 koala bears in an effort to keep the numbers down.
EMC has made yet another software acquisition, picking up Dantz Development Corp. today for help in the backup market. Dantz is the 15th software maker EMC has picked up since 2000, along with big names such as VMware and Legato.
Game makers need to spend time to make sure that music adds to the playing experience.
Five new moons have been discovered orbiting the giant planet Neptune.
Sources say the two companies will likely dissolve their 8-year-old subsidiary sometime this year.
Nokia has taken legal action to force smaller French rival Sagem to withdraw its flagship mobile phone and pay damages as it accuses Sagem of copying its designs.
Microsoft Corp. is still targeting smaller companies for acquisitions, despite speculation that now-scuttled merger talks with business software giant SAP AG signaled a shift in strategy, Chief Executive Steve Ballmer said on Tuesday.
Several major forces in the music industry changed their tunes this week, as industry giants and niche players alike try to stay on top of the fast-changing market.
Nintendo #39;s pairing with Namco is starting to bear some ripe fruit, with Donkey Konga about to see its third entry and Star Fox Armada taking shape into an impressive 2005 title.
The idea sounds good on paper: Build a mesh network of wireless Wi-Fi base stations and let users roam around an entire city instead of providing limited connectivity in a handful of hot spots. But will it work? The City of Philadelphia hopes so.
Bloated with inventory and mired in the red, the digital camera business of Japan's Olympus Corp. underscores how making money in the cut-throat market is getting tougher.
HP is working with specialists BearingPoint and OATSystems on RFID for Wal-Mart compliance and other retail implementation. Meanwhile, the major IBM competitor is building "domain knowledge" about RFID in manufacturing.
Users of the music player should watch out for hacked themes; a flaw allows would-be intruders to take control of PCs.
Red Hat Inc. has gone scavenging among Netscape's remains, agreeing Thursday to pay America Online Inc. (AOL) up to $23 million in cash for the assets of Netscape Communications Corp.'s Security Solutions unit.
MUCH LOVED music firm Apple has had to recall more than 28,000 rechargeable batteries that it jacks into its aluminium 15-inch PowerBook G4 because they may overheat.
New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary, the first man to climb Mount Everest and the first to drive a vehicle to the South Pole, described a U.S. highway to the pole as "terrible."
New deal aims to simplify and protect Air Force networks by introducing standard configurations.
With the economy slowly turning up, upgrading hardware has been on businesses radar in the past 12 months as their number two priority.
In 1918, Albert Einstein proposed that large objects bend the space around themselves while turning on their axis. In 2004, NASA scientists confirmed that the Earth bends the time and space around it while
Hitachi, Matsushita Electric Industrial and Toshiba have struck a deal to jointly make displays for flat-screen televisions, starting as early as July 2006, the Japanese companies said Tuesday.
Thirteen million digital radios will be sold in the UK by the end of 2008, industry body DRDB predicts.
The five top US defense contractors, communications companies joined on Tuesday with some European rivals to develop technology standards that will allow better communication among future weapons systems.
Sun Microsystems Inc. and the University of Texas at Austin are set to flip the switch on Friday on a unique supercomputer that will vastly speed up massive data analysis and visualization to tackle time-critical problems such as weather prediction.
South Korean mobile phone makers continued a rapid move up the global market rankings during the third quarter, while growth in the wider mobile phone market slowed, a survey found on Wednesday.
Starting in mid-October AT amp;T, in partnership with industry-leader Linksys (a division of Cisco Systems (Quote, Chart)), will begin offering Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) to home users across the country.
com September 22, 2004, 12:17 PM PT. Most IT Managers won #39;t question the importance of security, but this priority has been sliding between the third and fourth most important focus for companies.
By using methodical strategies, Nextel Communications Inc. is the scrawny kid from Reston, Va., who grew up to become a scrappy fighter by. <br><FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-The Washington Post</B></FONT>
IBM has introduced three new POWER5 processor-based servers that the company says outpace Sun and HP in performance records and establish a new standard for server virtualization capabilities.
FedEx said today that it will use software from Opsware Inc. to help it make the most of its IT resources.
European bourses are seen starting positively after a late spurt on Wall Street thanks to encouraging results from technology stalwarts IBM and Texas Instruments. A slide in oil back to #36;53.30 from its #36;55.33 peak on Monday also helped.
At this year's DemoMobile 2004 conference here, the pulse of the wireless industry is registering a move toward service-based computing, which is about delivering applications and data from a managed platform to a variety of secure devices.
For the first time since closing a deal to purchase PeopleSoft for $10.3 billion, Oracle has begun offering a glimpse of how it plans to digest its acquisition and handle what will represent four different product lines.
Intel Corp. will announce today that it has reached a significant milestone in manufacturing computer chips at ever-smaller levels.
Underwater archeologists have found another cannon from the wreckage of what they believe was the flagship of the notorious pirate Blackbeard.
The giant Diamond synchrotron being built in England is to receive a further 120m of funding.
File-swappers in Britain are to be taken to court for trading tracks over the Internet. The crackdown by the British Phonographic Industry is the first of its kind in the UK, although the
A series of X-Prizes for the scientific or technological breakthroughs that tackle the most important challenges facing humans are being planned.
Analysts at First Albany maintain their quot;buy quot; rating on EMC (EMC.NYS). The target price is set to $13.
Internet giant Yahoo! extended its reach in Net #39;s growing multimedia market today when it announced the deal to acquire media player software house MusicMatch.
The first U.S. cases of the fungus soybean rust, which hinders plant growth and drastically cuts crop production, were found at two research sites in Louisiana, officials said Wednesday.
Every October or November the reproductive swarming of an ocean worm known as the palolo is cause for a Samoan celebration. Fried in oil, baked into bread, or swallowed raw, worm sperm and eggs are a tasty treat.
Albatron Technology today announced the Nvidia-based AGP6600 and AGP6600GT VGA cards, both of which are designed for the AGP 8x interface.
Verizon Wireless is decrying a reported attempt by Nextel to reduce the price tag in its controversial spectrum deal with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) is expanding a program to give government organizations access to some of its tightly guarded software blueprints amid growing competition from rivals who make such source code freely available...
Catches of cod and other fish stocks must be drastically reduced or even stopped in the North Sea to help populations recover from years of overfishing, an independent expert panel said Monday.
Ubisoft #39;s first-person shooter is arriving on Microsoft #39;s console November 16, with the PlayStation 2 shipping as previously scheduled.
Larry Ellison even compares himself to the warlord, according to PeopleSoft's former CEO, defending previous remarks he made.
Microsoft is refreshing the beta release of its Visual Studio 2005 developer tool platform to feature the full range of technologies planned for the companys Team System application life cycle management system, Microsoft representatives acknowledged on Friday.
When the massive fan blades stop turning for the last time on September 30, 2004, the steel walls of the 16-Foot Transonic Tunnel will continue to reverberate with an incredible history of aeronautical research spanning over six decades. The stone "NACA" plate over the building's main entrance at NASA's Langley Research Center only hints at the historical significance of the facility...
A bricks and mortar music store is transforming into a clicks and mortar presence, as the Virgin Group is launching a music store in the US.
<p> </p><p> By Bernhard Warner</p><p> LONDON (Reuters) - Consumer electronics giant Sony Corp. said on Thursday it is mulling a major strategic shift to make digital music devices that play MP3 song files.</p>
New China News Agency reported that the satellite was set into orbit by a #39;Long Walking- 2C #39; rocket. The satellite was launched at 15:50 local time (10:50 in Turkey) from the Jiuquan Satellite Launching Center in Gansu province in northwestern China.
In an effort to address customer complaints about the Treo 650 #39;s memory capacity, handheld maker PalmOne will provide a software update for the smart phone #39;s memory.
A plan to help network various consumer devices is getting a boost this week thanks to a newly formed group of consumer electronics companies and chipmakers.
Robbie Williams #39; Greatest Hits album is to be sold in memory card format for mobile phones and hand-held computers. It is believed to be the first time a major artist has sold music on the small, portable format.
Symbol Technologies has expanded its line of rugged handheld computers with the addition of a PDA form-factor device called an quot;enterprise digital assistant quot; (EDA).
Hewlett-Packard has taken its competition with Sun Microsystems to a new domain: Web logs. Missing Links
A new space race has begun and this time it has nothing to do with planting flags on the moon - it is all about money. The announcement last month by entrepreneur Sir Richard Branson that he was investing
LINSPIRE INC. the company formerly known as Lindows announced on November 18 that it has licensed Windows Media technology and made it immediately available via a click-and-run online update to the users of the Linux distro.
Yahoo Inc. in November will close PayDirect, its online payments service that aimed to compete with eBay Inc. #39;s PayPal, the company said on Friday.
Yahoo is adding local traffic information to its map service in the US, including roadwork and accident reports as well as the approximate speed at which traffic is proceeding along specific roads.
In the latest change to its product lineup, Intel Corp...
Beginning in March, a static pop-up ad, or "billboard," will spring up as TiVo users skip through an ad - perhaps a logo for an advertiser, plus a message encouraging viewers to check out a new car or enter a contest.
Virus writer Sven Jaschan, who claimed responsibility for the Sasser and Netsky worms, has been given a job at an internet security company.
Europe's largest wireless carrier, Vodafone Group, this month said it's expanded its 3G high-speed wireless service to more markets - and cell phone makers cheered.
IBM is reportedly in talks to sell its personal computer business in a deal that could be worth up to #36;2 billion and would cap a gradual withdrawal from the business it helped to pioneer in 1981.
The United States grabbed top honors in the race for the world #39;s fastest supercomputer, beating out the Japanese computer that has held the title for more than two years.
After 13 years, the Free Software Foundation will update the GPL, and the to-do list is a long one.
UK mobile operator Mmo2 and US telecoms equipment maker Lucent Technologies are to deploy a converged fixed-mobile network for Mmo2 #39;s subsidiary, Manx Telecom, on the Isle of Man.
Handheld computer maker PalmOne Inc. unveiled Monday a new memory-packed personal digital assistant that can double as a portable data storage drive. PalmOne's new Tungsten T5 handheld has 256 megabytes of built-in flash memory.
Phishing scams increased by more than 100 in October causing banks, financial services firms and popular consumer websites until grief.
A $239 million satellite toppled to a factory floor last year because nobody bothered to check that it was secure before moving it, according to a NASA investigation board's report on the mishap.
Sony #39;s forthcoming PlayStation Portable handheld will fail to attract newcomers to gaming, according to Nintendo president Satoru Iwata, whose comments come as shipment targets for the DS are raised once again.
<strong>Review</strong> Mid-range features, performance for under 100?
In a continued effort to compete with IBM Corp. and its WebSphere offerings, Microsoft Corp. on Tuesday announced imminent availability of Host Integration Server 2004.
Microsoft Corp launched its MSN music download service in eight new European countries on Thursday in an attempt to fend off a recent expansion push by archrival Apple Computer's iTunes.
JFK Reloaded, after all, is an online game that deals with the John F. Kennedy assassination and was made available yesterday - the 41st anniversary of the president #39;s death.
Motorola plans first use of the open-source software in the core of next-generation cell phone networks.
Yahoo has said that it would soon begin testing a search engine called FareChase that allows travel shoppers to compare prices. The site, available to the general public since late Tuesday is meant to help
The deal is expected to be a boon for Microsoft, which has been struggling for a bigger share of the cell phone software market.
Woodland Hills-based Brilliant Digital Entertainment and its subsidiary Altnet announced yesterday that they have filed a patent infringement suit against the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).
Though it seems most sex toys are designed for women, it's the male-oriented ones that nudge the technology to new levels. Commentary by Regina Lynn.
A committee hears testimony on the possible usefulness of stem cells and current research restrictions, but it's an argument that boils down to when human life begins.
gollum123 writes quot;CNN and others are reporting that food is running so low aboard the international space station that both the crew members have been asked to cut their calories, at least until a Russian supply ship arrives in a little over two weeks.
A year after the recording industry opened fire on illegal file-sharers with hundreds of lawsuits, the movie industry has followed its lead.
The software giant settles one legal claim with Novell over NetWare, but can't reach a deal over a second issue involving WordPerfect.
Schools are spending a fortune on technology in the hopes of gaining relevance with Generation I. Bad news--they've already lost.
Powerful Hurricane Ivan, the latest in a busy storm season, rushed over the Atlantic Ocean on Monday and threatened the eastern Caribbean Windward Islands.
Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) has released Navision 4.0, a product that integrates financial, manufacturing, distribution, customer-management, supply chain, analytics and e-commerce data. The software is the first major release to come out of Microsoft's acquisition of Danish firm Navision in 2002.
Verizon Communications (NYSE: VZ) posted profit of US #36;1.796 billion for its third quarter, up from #36;1.791 billion a year ago. The company attributed the slight rise to its wireless segment, which brought in an additional 1.7 million wireless customers.
Ads in video games are becoming a lucrative area for firms trying to reach young people.
Agere is working to make tiny drives the heart of MP3 players and other devices. But are nonstandard approaches worth the risk?
Thousands of samples from the Genesis space capsule have arrived at the Johnson Space Center, where the project's curator must assemble a giant jigsaw puzzle that could hold clues to the origins of the solar system.
Analysts at First Albany reiterate their quot;buy quot; rating on Apple Computer (AAPL.NAS).
Despite age-old Olympic truce known as the ekecheiria, or "holding of hands," security experts aren't taking any chances.
America Online (Quote, Chart) has inked a deal with RSA Security (Quote, Chart) to add another layer of authentication to the existing username/password scheme used by AOL subscribers.
Software maker Adobe Systems Inc. on Thursday posted a quarterly profit that rose more than one-third from a year ago, but shares fell 3 percent after the maker of Photoshop and Acrobat software did not raise forecasts for fiscal 2005.
Yet another security flaw reported for popular Web browser.
Research in Motion (RIMM ) started a revolution five years ago when it rolled out the first BlackBerry wireless e-mail device. The BlackBerry keyboard seemed too small to be usable, until you tried it.
Intel Corp. will work with Clearwire Corp., a wireless Internet service provider founded by cellular pioneer Craig McCaw, on future networks based on WiMax wireless broadband technology.
Popular television shows like <I>CSI: Crime Scene Investigation</I> have heightened public interest in forensics. So what is the job of a crime-scene investigator really like?
Music will continue its reign as the prime mover of European gadgets, according to Jupiter Research. A survey of 5,000 consumers from Britain, Germany, France, Sweden, Spain and Italy, revealed that devices
Creative Technology will spend US $100 million next year to market its portable media devices in a worldwide campaign to grab market share from Apple Computer and its popular iPod player.
As expected, Intel has introduced a 3.8GHz Pentium 4 processor in what could represent the end of an era for the chip maker. The Pentium 4 570 processor at 3.8GHz will have the fastest clock speed of any processor
Some say Win XP SP2 enhancements cause conflicts, don't protect as claimed.
Sprint Corp. announced it will be the first carrier to offer palmOne Inc. #39;s new Treo 650 smart phone. The device, which will retail for $600, includes phone, e-mail, Web, organizer, MP3 player, digital camera and camcorder capabilities.
A top networking gear producer plans to offer a speedy new cellular technology that's an alternative to DSL and cable Internet access with the added advantage of being available on the road.
Oracle sealed a deal to buy rival business software firm PeopleSoft for 10.3 billion dollars after a bitter 18-month battle, the two firms announced.
Criminals deploy zombies herded into netwoks of a few hundred to more than half a million compromised PCs. Uses vary from the simply annoying (spam attacks) to the unsavory and criminal.
A new worm has been discovered in the wild that #39;s not just settling for invading users #39; PCs--it wants to invade their homes, too.
It #39;s been four months to the day since I last wrote on the subject of the cell phone industry #39;s plan to publish your unlisted cell phone number for all the world to see - and charge you for the privilege.
LG Electronics revealed Monday that is has set a new technological benchmark by producing the world #39;s first terrestrial digital-media-broadcasting (DMB) cell phone that allows consumers to watch programs and use normal dialing functions simultaneously.
Mark Potts, a self-described "recovering journalist," says with a bit of understatement: "It isn't Woodward and Bernstein stuff."
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies is launching a new line of 1.8-inch Travelstar C4K60 hard drives. The new drives will feature high-density 30GB platters and ZIF (zero insertion force) connectors for use
Fujitsu and Cisco Systems have reached a fundamental agreement to enter into a strategic alliance focusing on routers and switches that will enable service providers and enterprises to build advanced Internet Protocol (IP
If calling, text messaging, web browsing and video filming aren't enough for you, your cell phone may soon be able to perform another function as well: paying for lunch. But is it secure?
DVD burner from Sony does just fine without a PC. Also: Virgin goes head-to-head with the iPod Mini.
the C3PO of Search I live in a bilingual household, well, make that trilingual. I'm an English speaker from the US and my wife is a dual Brazilian/Japanese citizen. I lived in Japan for 18 months and then spent about the same amount of time in ...
IBM Corp. plans to announce today that it has built the world #39;s fastest supercomputer at one of its facilities in Rochester, Minn.
A survey of Internet vulnerabilities shows a sharp jump in attacks on Windows-based personal computers and a marked increase in commercially motivated threats.
Attendees at Apple Expo in Paris are impressed at the look of the new iMac G5, but mixed on whether it #39;s the right solution for their needs.
Looking to provide a catalyst for e-commerce, OASIS on Monday announced ratification of Universal Business Language (UBL) Version 1.0, which defines a common XML library of business documents for use in online transactions.
J.P. Morgan, the No. 2 U.S. bank, said that after its recent merger with Bank One, it could better manage its own technology and infrastructure.
In a report, it says the agency #39;s first try at building an enterprise architecture offers a partial foundation, but is lacking in several areas.
Microsoft isn't the only company soaking up the gravy from this week's release of "Halo 2", the smash successor to the company's breakthrough shooting game for its Xbox console. Missing Links
Back in September we reported on the legal battle between Valve and Vivendi surrounding the quot;cyber cafs quot; issue where Valve served Sierra On-Line, the then-Half-Life publisher, in August 2002, suing for copyright infringement in violation of the
Struggling Sun Microsystems will try to show next month that it still has a lot of friends in the financial community. On Sept. 21, the Mountain View, Calif.
Ask Jeeves Inc. (ASKJ.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , the third-biggest US Web search provider, late on Monday unveiled MyJeeves, a new product that helps users personalize their Internet searches.
Pollen from a genetically modified grass has blown on the wind and pollinated other grasses up to 21 kilometres away, says a new study.
A German teenager who created the Sasser worm that disrupted computers around the world in May has been charged with computer sabotage, prosecutors said Wednesday.
Computer-security software maker Symantec today plans to unveil a new strategy for offering large businesses more services along with software for managing their computer networks.
Nobel laureate James Watson, the co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, on Monday defended stem cell research, saying researchers must be able to search for ways to improve quality of life despite the field's uncertainties.
International Business Machines Corp. on Monday posted a flat quarterly net profit, weighed down by a legal settlement, but said fourth-quarter results would be better than expected, and its shares rose 2.3 percent.
A battery developed by Matsushita Electric Industrial that delivers 1.5 times the power of a regular alkaline battery is going on sale in the United States and Europe in April 2005.
Links to this week's topics from search engine forums across the web: How Do You Compete With the Fortune 500s - Google Prices Stock at $85 Per Share - MSN Block-Level Link Analysis - Slickest Link Building Tricks - Your Message to New SEOs - How To Handle AdWords With Thousands Of Keywords
Intel Corp. and the PC industry are about to go through a major change in the way client computers are designed, built and marketed, said Intel President and Chief Operating Officer Paul Otellini during his introductory address Tuesday at the Fall Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco.
Embedded Wi-Fi products are taking off, and their popularity is likely to grow at an accelerating pace, according to In-Stat/MDR. The market for embedded Wi-Fi clients - including mobile PCs
There's no space in the space station...
Antarctic glaciers are moving faster as they melt, bringing more ice into the oceans and causing sea levels to rise, according to a new study.
Yahoo! has purchased a privately held e-mail software company that develops software technology that allows users to quickly search through mails and attachments.
A U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service biologist says returning wolves to the Rocky Mountains is "a chance to undo a great wrong" done when wolves were exterminated from about 98 percent of their range by the mid-1900s.
A leading provider of secure content management solutions, Finjan Software, has reported 10 serious security vulnerabilities in Windows XP Service Pace 2. According to the company, the attacker can remotely take control over a machine running Windows XP
Mythical tales abound of a race of little people that dwell on the islands of Indonesia. Dutch explorers who colonized Flores 100 years ago were told stories of a human-like creature local
Creative Technology will today begin shipping its anticipated Zen Portable Media Center in the US, with a UK roll-out in the middle of the month.
Thanks to a new chip Texas Instruments Inc. is developing, your favorite TV show someday will come to the cell phone nearest to you.
Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble has an exhaustive roundup of the reaction to the new MSN Spaces Web publishing and blogging tool, plus a link to a video interview of the MSN Spaces development team on Microsoft #39;s Channel 9 site.
Dell CEO Kevin Rollins came out swinging against overseas outsourcing in a speech delivered Friday at a conference in Boston. Outsourcing Blog
Sweden handed over to a group of Australian aborigines on Thursday the remains of about 20 of their ancestors smuggled out of Australia almost 90 years ago by a Swedish zoologist who pretended they were kangaroo bones.
Many people don #39;t use a handheld organizer for anything but tracking their calendar appointments and contacts lists. For them, there #39;s no reason to spend more than $100, in the form of Palm #39;s Zire 21.
Google IPO and Effect on Venture Capital Industry Will the Google IPO have any impact on the Venture Capital market? FundingPost surveyed 32 Venture Capitalists and Angel Investors for their opinions. FundingPost is happy to share these responses from leading venture investors as it should help guide CEOs of ...
The computing problems to be solved in the next two decades will be more exciting than those that already have been solved, according to Microsoft #39;s Bill Gates.
Nokia on Tuesday announced it plans to start selling a new smart phone capable of handwriting recognition. The 7710 model features a touch screen, pen input, a digital camera, an Internet browser, a radio, video
EMC has made its biggest push to date into the fast growing small and midsize business market with the acquisition of Dantz Development, a suppler of backup and recovery software.
Looks like Gmail is about to officially offer POP access, according to this message in their support database. This function has already been enabled by lots of third party tools, but has been expected from Google themselves for quite a while.
Tape storage king StorageTek puts new pressure on the storage-management market with an acquisition.
Microsoft is throwing its hat into the blogosphere, a move seen as another attempt to catch competitor Google in the services-and-search race and an effort to woo more customers to its Internet services. <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-washingtonpost.com</B></FONT>
roundup Plus: Music promoter offers concert downloads...WS-I tackles Web services attachments...Newspaper sites take up paid search ads.
MSN Search to Challenge Google and Yahoo The new MSN Search is a full speed ahead effort for Microsoft to catch Google and Yahoo in the search engine race and are about ready to release their MSN Search Engine. Microsoft has offered a search engine since long on their MSN website ...
Shares of mail-order DVD rental company Netflix Inc. plunged Thursday after it warned that it was slashing its subscription price in anticipation of Amazon.com Inc. entering an already crowded market.
Iphtashu Fitz writes quot;CNet News is reporting that 4 major internet providers - AOL, Earthlink, Microsoft, and Yahoo, have filed another bunch of lawsuits against spammers.
Connexion by Boeing, the only real-time, high-speed connectivity service available to commercial airline passengers and iPass, which operates the world #39;s largest Wi-Fi roaming network with over 11,000 active hotspots in 33 countries, complement each other
quot;Halo 2 quot; is unquestionably the most eagerly anticipated video game of 2004. But that may be a bit of an understatement. Its predecessor became a religion, a staple to what seems like 99 percent of dorm room gamers.
After heavy rainfall forced numerous delays last year, the United States Tennis Association will rely on new machines to dry the courts faster.
A rocket carrying an Israeli spy satellite intended to boost the Jewish state #39;s surveillance over arch-enemy Iran crashed into the sea shortly after liftoff on Monday, officials and defense sources said.
Underlining the importance of message archiving software, Veritas Software Corp. has announced plans for a $224 million cash acquisition of KVS Software Ltd.
For critics of power-line broadband access, new FCC rules mean "the glass is both half-full and half-empty."
My Yahoo Embraces RSS Feeds I started using RSS in January 2000 after Blake Carver sent me a exasperated e-mail asking why, for heaven's sake, I wasn't using it. Surely, he noted, I could see that RSS was the greatest thing since sliced soap. (He may have used slightly different words.) ...
#147;It has been a good year for Apple, #148; writes Wilson Rothman in naming the iMac G5 TIME Gadget of the Week. #147;Since the beginning of 2004, I #146;ve discussed GarageBand, AirPort Express and the latest iPod. If you go back 12 months, you can probably even throw in iTunes Music Store, the original G5 and the official release of iChat AV. This isn #146;t favoritism, I #146;m just impressed. Rather than spend money on its silly #145;Switch #146; ad campaign, the company has spent it inventing actual reasons for people to switch from Windows to Mac, not least of all personal style. The iMac G5 is super suave, but it #146;s also a pretty good deal. #148; Sep 22
Rather than banning the phones outright, schools are capitulating to demands of parents and market realities, and allowing students to carry cellphones in school.
The business applications maker will integrate its technology more closely with infrastructure software from Big Blue.
Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose, Calif., Monday acquired privately held P-Cube Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif. P-Cube develops service control platforms, which help service providers
India's largest software services firm will provide engineering services for the development of Ferrari's 2005-season F1 car.
Honda Motor Co., with software help from IBM, is preparing to introduce an improved speech-recognition system as standard equipment on the 2005 Acura RL sedan.
A month before the video game #39;s scheduled release this coming Tuesday, illegal copies of the hot sci-fi action title quot;Halo 2 quot; already were circulating on the Internet.
With the announcement of the Player 5GB, Virgin Electronics has joined the growing list of vendors attempting to take some of Apple #39;s share of the digital music player market.
A new look at climate conditions 55 million years ago shows that the Earth is more sensitive to small changes than previously believed.
Nintendo Co. is set to launch Nintendo DS, the latest of its wallet-sized game systems. The company will have its $150 Nintendo DS in United States stores Nov. 21 - hoping to take advantage of post-Thanksgiving shopping.
Jupiter Research analyst Joe Wilcox said that Opera is making a smart move by spending more money on marketing. He said some fear and uncertainty remains about the security level of Microsoft #39;s
In Meta Group study, nearly half of managers surveyed predict offshore outsourcing will decline if Kerry elected.
A government laboratory and a private company announced a #36;2.6 million project Monday to develop hydrogen in a nuclear reactor using a process with the potential to one day trim the country's reliance on fossil fuels.
The iPod Photo which features a 65K color display and iPhoto synching ability, the 40GB model is available for US $499 while the 60GB model sells for US $599.
The first private manned rocket glided into space a second time and returned to Earth after recovering from a wild roll on its ascent on Wednesday in a bid to earn the $10 million Ansari X Prize.
Taran Rampersad didn't complain when he failed to find anything on his hometown in the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. Instead, he simply wrote his own entry for San Fernando, Trinidad and Tobago...
Elephants must receive hundreds of times more space to live at San Francisco's zoo or not be kept at the facility, city legislators said on Tuesday in legislation that could effectively bar pachyderms for good.
In some remote Alaskan villages, the coastline creeps closer each year, threatening the homes and livelihood of Inupiaq Eskimo, Inuit and other indigenous tribes.
Nortel Networks has again delayed posting its long-awaited restated financial results, moving its target release date to mid-November.
A new species of flightless bird has been discovered living on a tiny island in the northern Philippines where the inhabitants formerly ate them, scientists and birdwatchers said on Tuesday.
About this time last year, I wrote a column following up on some pieces I'd written earlier to see what if anything new had happened to those topics. The reaction I heard afterwards convinced me that revisiting old news was a worthwhile exercise - in general, it's too easy for tech reporters to lose sight of how a product works over time in the real world, as opposed to a brief trial in a reviewer's hands.
The Sun may have captured thousands or even millions of asteroids from another planetary system during an encounter more than four billion years ago, astronomers are reporting today.
AOL is the latest and largest company to back away from Microsoft #39;s Sender ID software, designed to cut spam by identifying the source of the email.
To celebrate the upcoming release, Microsoft has launched a new MechAssault 2 mini-site where visitors will find tons of information on the upcoming Xbox action title, such as trailers, wallpapers, and plenty of screenshots.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov insisted on Thursday Russia still intended to approve the Kyoto pact on climate change, despite official papers showing the government was turning against it.
Apple Computer has updated the software for some of its iPod digital media players so that songs bought from RealNetworks won #39;t play.
Corporate IT users are getting caught in the middle of another spin war between Microsoft Corp. and the Linux and Unix communities, most recently Novell Inc.
More than 11 years after scientists predicted it would occur, a strong earthquake rocked the central California town of Parkfield on Tuesday morning.
When Cingular completes its purchase of AT amp;T Wireless, it'll leapfrog Verizon Wireless to become the nation's No. 1 mobile phone company by the most common measures - subscribers and sales.
Fossils of ancient marine reptiles that lived 230 million years ago show the prehistoric creatures gave birth to live young, scientists said on Wednesday.
New top-of-the-line smart phone has a sharper screen, a faster chip and a removable battery.
Sorting out which MP3 player is best, how to select a gaming console or making sense of high-tech TVs can become as much a chore as decorating your house for the holidays. Enter the ever-popular tech gadget gift buying guide. <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-washingtonpost.com</B></FONT>
The Federal Trade Commission has filed suit against two companies owned by New Hampshire resident Sanford Wallace. The firms allegedly infected users #39; computer with spyware - and also sold anti-spyware software.
The first vending machines to sell music downloads will be introduced in London next month as Britons continue to turn their backs on traditional methods of buying singles.
Scientists are baffled by a mysterious power boost to one of its two robotic rovers on Mars.
The 2004 Summer Olympics are underway in Athens and the web is home to plenty of information that makes watching the games even more interesting.
PeopleSoft Inc. Monday raised its forecast for the just-ended quarter, helped by an increased average selling price and strong performances in North America and Europe.
COMPANIES here more concerned with preventing computer viruses from attacking them, are neglecting their biggest information security threats - their employees and business partners.
Steve Ballmer #36;12.6 billion Microsoft. Redmond, Wash. 48. Married, 2 children "I'm confident we have some of the greatest dollar growth prospects in front of us of any company in the world, full stop, period--without question, it's there." So said Microsoft's chief executive and boisterous booster in July. Cites corporate servers and America's living room, where Xbox commands a growing share of U.S. gaming market. ...
XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc.'s deal, potentially worth #36;650 million, to acquire the broadcast rights to Major League Baseball over at least the next eight years, announced yesterday, was made possible by ESPN radio relinquishing its satellite broadcast rights.
Big pharmaceutical companies are testing new tracking technology they hope will help them spot counterfeit drugs before they reach consumers' medicine cabinets. By putting tags that transmit radio waves on medicine bottles sent to drug stores, company officials think they will be able to detect fake drugs.
SafeKeeper Trusted I/O devices have a trusted platform module (TPM), which stores passwords, digital certificates, and encryption keys.
Broadand services provider Digiweb has been accepted as a member of the international wireless industry body, the WiMax Forum, which was established to promote and certify compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless products and platforms.
Oracle Corp. chief executive Lawrence Ellison said discussions within the company at this point are leaning toward lowering the #36;21-a-share bid Oracle is offering for rival PeopleSoft Inc.
Monash scientist Andrew Prentice ponders the probe that will land on the Saturnian moon Titan in January. Photo: Angela Wylie. NASA #39;s mission to Saturn, Cassini, will pass a crucial milestone
Internet users may soon see two new domain name suffixes in their browser window: quot;.post quot; to identify the postal community and quot;.
Microsoft #39;s big Windows patch gets snapped up by consumers, but many businesses are still testing it. By John Foley. Microsoft #39;s Windows XP Service Pack 2 is now in the hands of more than 100 million users, the company disclosed on Wednesday.
A private space plane is set to shoot beyond Earth #39;s atmosphere for the second time in a week on Monday in a pioneering bid to win a $10 million prize and prove that space is open for business.
Wild populations of Australian dingoes may go extinct within 50 years unless steps are taken to prevent crossbreeding with domestic dogs, scientists and conservationists say.
Doctors who receive drug company funding would be limited in what they could teach other physicians under new rules being proposed by accreditors. The Chicago-based Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education, which gives its stamp of approval for such classes, was to announce sweeping changes Tuesday to limit the influence of doctors with financial connections to the pharmaceutical industry...
The GNOME Foundation today released the latest evolution of its widely used Linux desktop GNOME version 2.8. The new release adds some significant new features and further expands the usability of the Linux desktop.
China's second manned space flight will carry two astronauts into space and will orbit the Earth for five days.
eWeek says that new data shows Web site visitors paying more attention to alternative browsers, as Microsoft #39;s share drops to 93.
In this north German town a huge crane is helping to build the world's largest wind power plant, a prototype for offshore wind farms from 2006.
The battle for the US presidency enters new territory today with both candidates turning to scientific journals to set out their election promises.
The stone "fin" on the new lava lobe inside the crater at Mount St. Helens seems to be starting to split.
Oracle Corp. hopes to close its buyout of PeopleSoft Inc. within two weeks and have a new management organization in place for the combined companies sometime in January, Oracle co-president Charles Phillips said Tuesday.
veryone covets a piece of Apple Computer #39;s iPod. And for good reason. It essentially defines what consumers want in a digital music player: capacity, style, seamless integration with personal computers and
The production of the original Star Wars was a disaster. But as the riveting documentary Empire of Dreams shows, underdog director George Lucas somehow pulled it off, which makes you appreciate the trilogy even more. A review by Jason Silverman.
The compact disc has at least another five years as the most popular music format before online downloads chip away at its dominance, a new study said on Tuesday.
Intel, the world #39;s biggest semiconductor maker, said on Monday that it had succeeded in building a test chip that packs 10 million transistors into an area the size of the tip of a ball-point pen.
Executive vice president of sales becomes Sun's executive vice president for strategic development and Sun financing.
Four Chinese men have been sentenced to up to two and a half years in jail as punishment for operating a pornographic Web site, the country #39;s official English-language newspaper reported Friday.
The woman who writes Wonkette! needed no introduction and offered no apologies Saturday, telling her peers in online journalism that Web logs like hers have spurred a quicker response to breaking news by major media outlets.
Adobe is currently trying to push a new image format standard to solve many of the problems associated with the plethora of camera hardware and the differing formats they use for storing images.
Technologies that let people record satellite and Internet radio broadcasts digitally are opening a new front in the recording industry's war on music piracy.
The SpaceShipOne team will attempt to win the $10 million Ansari X Prize on Monday, the 47th anniversary of the start of the first space race when the Soviet Union launched its Sputnik satellite.
Hewlett-Packard Co. plans to deliver by the end of the year a new vulnerability service designed to help companies proactively detect and fix flaws that could be used in a malicious attacks.
Two of the company's top engineers, who helped develop its flagship product, decide to start up their own operation.
Family tree research can be addictive fun. With my long-lost relative's assistance, help from closer kin and the latest version of Family Tree Maker software, I've been identifying the branches of a Baig family tree.
Virgin Atlantic honcho Richard Branson yesterday announced plans to boldly go where no airline company has gone before - outer space.
The Free Standards Group's updated standard will improve Linux code portability and interoperability, developers say, and reduce the worry of platform fragmentation.
After a recent legal setback, a California company that claims its patents cover the streaming video technology used by adult Web sites is boosting efforts to collect money from a very different group of streaming video users: colleges and universities. Newport Beach, Calif.-based Acacia Media Technologies Corp...
Sharp Corp. has developed a 65-inch (1.66 metres) liquid crystal display (LCD) colour television under its AQUOS brand, the world's largest.
Steve Ballmer has attacked Linux vendors for failing to adequately indemnify customers against potential intellectual property legal actions.
Knight-Ridder's Phil Robinson offers a "right and reasonable" solution to outsourcing.
HD-DVD backers say their format is cheaper and easier to produce than rival Blu-ray.
Google, which implemented an internal Web log system behind its firewall about 18 months ago, has seen tremendous benefits from it and may in the future consider providing tools and expertise for this purpose to interested clients, a Google executive said.
Get some earplugs: quot;Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas quot; hit stores Tuesday, and the sound from cash registers ringing up copies of the video game could be deafening.
Freescale Semiconductor Inc. has won a long-term contract worth more than 200 million euros ( #36;246 million) to supply car components to Siemens, the companies said on Monday.
Microsoft solicits PeopleSoft customers with offers of cheaper and better technology just days after Oracle purchases the company.
Gartner #39;s research indicates that US consumers have certain expectations as to what fair use really is. quot;When we #39;ve surveyed teens and adults, we #39;ve found that at least 60 percent of both groups
They made history in more ways than one. Not just because they landed two robot geologists on Mars. Not just because they provided conclusive evidence that water once flowed on the Red Planet. The JPL team that sent two rovers to Mars this year made history because they completed in 3 1/2 years what mission planners usually complete in seven.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Wednesday gave its approval for Google to proceed with its initial public offering (IPO).
A new Swedish study suggests that people who use a mobile phone for at least 10 years might increase their risk of developing a rare benign tumor along a nerve on the side of the head where they hold the phone.
Scientists have produced the sharpest picture yet taken of atoms, with a resolution of roughly one 400-millionth of an inch.
Microsoft (Quote, Chart) has issued significant security enhancements to its operating system software, making the Windows Server 2003 SP1 Release Candidate 1 (RC1) available for download.
Research into what separates matter from antimatter is accelerating in particle physics experiments around the world. Scientists are hoping the difference will help explain why you, me and all the things around us are made of matter instead of its opposite.
roundup Plus: Microsoft connects with SAP...Autodesk updates hobbyist tool...LogicLibrary buys bug catcher...Think local, act Google.
PeopleSoft's board of directors today rejected Oracle's latest $24-per-share "best and final offer" for the company, leaving the outcome in the hands of PeopleSoft shareholders.
Worker apathy about PDA security is putting corporate data in jeopardy. The storage of the names and addresses of corporate customers on PDAs is now common - but security practices are struggling to keep up with technology usage.
The risk of wars being fought over water is rising because of explosive global population growth and widespread complacency, scientists said on Friday.
The signs say "KEEP OUT" and warn of radiation contamination, but the mushroom-pickers trudge right past them carrying their pails. Eighteen years after the reactor at Chernobyl in neighboring Ukraine exploded, spewing a cloud of radiation that blew north and contaminated 22 percent of this ex-Soviet republic, activists warn of a new threat facing Belarusians: the longing to return to normal life.
Apple #39;s iTunes Music Store has signed an exclusive deal to distribute digital versions of Oasis #39; tracks. Apple #39;s success in signing Oasis to its service means that a new selection form the band #39;s
Redmond #39;s not extending its basic support for NT 4 and Exchange 5.5, but it is extending custom paid support for the product. While Microsoft continues to emphasize that it is not extending its basic support
Company's ND-3500A drive is not just for OEMs anymore.
Google Print Google Print, Google Print, Argh Argh Argh! Since I got back from Web Search University I have been buried in sites and resources to review. I despair of catching up. And they keep piling on, as evidenced by the launch of Google Print. ...
EA #39;s latest RTS features combat on two levels; gamers can battle with elves, trolls, and beasts for $39.99. Electronic Arts today shipped its latest real-time strategy game, Armies of Exigo, to retail stores.
Stephanie Bradford isn't content with her daughter dissecting frogs in science class. She wants the students to cut into the hearts and eyes of moose, caribou, bear and other large game.
An internet security company has discovered a sinister computer worm that turns people #39;s machines into peeping toms, secretly recording everything they see and hear.
Plus: AT #38;T posts $7.1 billion loss...Lucent sees first profitable year since 2000...EMC issues sunny report...IBM net income inches higher, despite legal bill.
At PeopleSoft Inc.'s Connect 2004 conference in San Francisco next week, the software vendor is expected to face questions from users about its ability to fend off Oracle Corp.'s hostile takeover bid and remain independent.
Microsoft has decided to remove a key feature of its next major Windows operating system, codenamed Longhorn, in order to keep its 2006 shipping deadline intact.
New Internet-based technology could soon turn regular computer users into armchair spies, a Canadian inventor said on Monday. Vincent Tao, an engineer at Toronto #39;s York University, said he has invented a mapping
Bloggers enjoy a moment of glory after pooling their expertise to uncover the truth about the forged memos on Bush #39;s service record.
Spammers may be about to get a taste of their own medicine. A British company is today launching software that it claims will allow computer users to hit back at the mass mailers who clog up our inboxes with
Web surfers from Beijing to Berkeley have made Google their search engine of choice, but some of Europe #39;s institutional investors have gone sour on the dot-com on the eve of its ...
Optware Corp. has received funding that will enable it to complete development of its holographic storage technology, and is on course to release commercial samples of read/write drives in the final three months of 2005, the company said Tuesday.
BROADBAND access prices in Britain are still too high and need to be cut further to bring the country into line with other nations, according to Ofcom, Britains media and telecoms regulator.
Digital video recording pioneer TiVo Inc. has long promised "TV Your Way." But the company's plans for pop-up ads and restrictions on copying have sparked worries that the service may be eroding consumer control in favor of Hollywood and advertiser interests.
China's second-largest mobile phone company plans to open 3,000 Internet cafes by the end of the year, exerting stronger state control over a sector once dominated by private enterprise, state-run radio reported Tuesday.
Peer-to-peer technology has been used to create an e-mail network said to be free of spam, viruses and snoopers.
Mount Everest should be put on a United
O2 and Nortel have completed live mobile test calls using an emerging technology known as High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA), which the firms claim is three times faster than today #39;s commercial 3G networks.
A not-so anonymous Anonymous Coward asks: quot;The administrator at my work gave me the following reason for not using Mozilla. What do you think?
It doesn't break new ground, and the plot is a little sparse, but thanks to its visual quality and ability to suck you into its world, Half Life 2 is probably the best game of 2004.
The NASA spacecraft that smashed into the Utah desert last month while bringing home fragile samples of the sun may have been doomed by engineering drawings that had been done backwards, an investigating board said Friday.
Researchers say they have identified brain cell receptors that appear to be responsible for nicotine addiction, a finding of clear importance for smokers who are desperately trying to kick the habit.
Gordon Cooper, who was the youngest and perhaps cockiest member of the original seven Mercury astronauts and set the space endurance record that helped clear the way for the first moon landing, has died.
AOL has unveiled a prototype of its revived Netscape browser without half the hype that Mozilla programs like Firefox and Thunderbird have been fetching.
When the violent video game quot;Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas quot; hits stores on Tuesday, its sales could eclipse Hollywood #39;s most successful films, even as it draws the ire of critics.
PC World's initial test results for this gaming chip are impressive.
It has been singled out as the second-leading cause of lung cancer in the United States, right behind smoking. But to Shiro Umeda, sprightly at 74, radon is the best thing since aspirin.
The Geminids Meteor Shower, usually one of the best meteor showers of the year, will peak on Monday the 13th of December. Viewers can expect to see as many as 120 meteors an hour at peak time.
According to an article on The Register, camera phones will soon have lenses made from nothing more than drops of oil and water.
Just over a year ago, the recording industry unleashed its first barrage of lawsuits against people who share music online - a move that appeared to curtail illegal file swapping briefly.
Representatives from America's largest e-mail companies will meet in Washington today and Wednesday to look for a way to reduce the amount of "spam" clogging the nation's e-mail accounts, but experts said a concrete solution remains months or even years away. <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-washingtonpost.com</B></FONT>
Early autumn is a fine time for stargazers, with generally clear skies, moderate temperatures and darkness falling earlier and earlier in the evenings.
Deadline extended while the software maker waits for a ruling in Justice Department's antitrust case.
The application server space is heating up once again as both IBM and BEA Systems tout new versions of their platforms. With its Liquid Computing strategy, San Jose, Calif.
roundup Plus: Via brings PCI Express to AMD PCs...Rice lab makes nano parts less toxic...TV chip company gets $19 million.
WASHINGTON--The US government should be prepared to spend freely if it decides to encourage quot;bounty hunters quot; to track down e-mail spammers, the US Federal Trade Commission said Thursday.
Lawyers for the file-swapping service Kazaa argued in an Australian court yesterday that their software is analogous to the old Betamax videocassette recorders.
The BBC's Asit Jolly in Chandigarh reports on India's disastrous efforts to cross-breed Asiatic and African lions.
US consumers and businesses have lost an estimated 500 million dollars to a relatively new Internet scam known as quot;phishing, quot; according to a survey released this week.
Leading Web search engine Google launched a new site for book lovers at the world's largest publishing show that will provide a new avenue for sales.
Privacy advocates are concerned that an implantable microchip designed to help doctors tap into a patient's medical records could undermine confidentiality or could even be used to track the patient's movements.
Apple Computer (Quote, Chart) unveiled a batch of new iPods, iTunes software and promos designed to keep it atop the heap of digital music players.
NASA #39;s Jet Propulsion Laboratory says the Mars rover Spirit has found a mineral linked to water during its exploration of the Red Planet.
The British watchdog agency charged with monitoring fairness and accuracy in advertising has ordered Microsoft to pull print ads comparing the total cost of ownership of Linux and Windows.
Analysts speculate that company is a possible target to be acquired and that big operational changes are in store for the 16,557-person technology consulting firm.<br><FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-Ellen McCarthy</b></font>
Intel Corp. chief executive Craig Barrett said Tuesday the company has "recovered" from product missteps that plagued the chip maker during the first half of the year.
Much like Linux, the Firefox browser has become an open-source phenomenon. More than five million people have downloaded the preview version of the free product - developed by the non-profit
Hot on the heels of Sony #39;s announcement last week that its forthcoming handheld, called the PSP, would retail this December in Japan for approximately $186 USD, a brief war of words between the company and rival Nintendo erupted.
Toshiba has unveiled the world #39;s first hard disk drive (HDD) based on perpendicular recording, setting new benchmarks for data density by boosting the capacity of a single 1.8-inch hard-disk platter to 40 gigabytes.
As the debate about adding a national intelligence director proceeds, two government reports are shedding new light on an existing dilemma: If DHS CIO Steven Cooper can #39;t wrestle the agency #39;s sprawling bureaucracy into ...
Newest Efficeon processor also offers higher frequency using less power.
A corporate executive goes on the lam after being charged with paying hackers to virtually rub out the competition.
December 6, 2004 -MD announced the AMD Opteron processor family will include AMD PowerNow! technology with Optimised Power Management (OPM) in the first half of 2005.
According to press reports in Japan, NTT DoCoMo is locked in talks with US mobile giant Cingular aimed at unifying the pair #39;s 3G mobile phone services.
The latest instalment of the Burnout gaming franchise offers a good mix of speed and attitude.
Big Blue adds features, beefs up training efforts in China; rival Unisys debuts new line and pricing plan.
roundup Plus: Tibco scoops up software company...PeopleSoft extends customer assurance...Siebel moves toward self-repairing software.
MOBILE group mmO2 and giant Japanese telcom NTT DoCoMo today signed a deal allowing mmO2 to launch the i-mode internet service in Britain, Germany and Ireland.
The three companies are investing billions of dollars to develop and prepare for mass production of Cell, a multicore semiconductor composed of several processors that work together to handle multiple tasks simultaneously.
Chip maker will being testing the emerging, high-speed wireless technology.
According to researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, counties with electronic voting machines were significantly more likely to show increased support for President Bush compared to counties with paper ballots or optical scan equipment.
Users will receive free warnings of worms and viruses targeting their chat client.
One of the first things we did after moving into our old house was to rip out the ancient radiators and put in a modern heating system.
Linux is gaining ground with companies but Windows will continue to dominate consumer PCs in the near future. That is the non-contentious conclusion of the latest IDC research.
The tech sector can't pop open the bubbly yet, since pink slips are flying and shipping jobs overseas is as en vogue as 1980s fashion trends. But there are signs of growth that give reason to at least put the champagne on ice, with PC sales rising and small businesses planning to plunk down serious cash on technology purchases, according to a new batch of studies.
The Mozilla Foundation has updated the German-language version of Firefox in a bid to defuse a growing controversy over the way its search toolbar handles private customer data.
ADVOCATES of open-source software will celebrate Software Freedom Day on Saturday by holding Linux installation events around the country.
Telecommunications giant Sprint Corp. is acquiring Nextel Communications Inc. in a #36;35 billion deal that would create the nation's third largest wireless telephone service provider.
Microsoft Corp told a judge on Thursday that the European Commission must be stopped from ordering it to give up secret technology to competitors. <FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"><B>-Reuters</B></FONT>
The Smart 1 lunar probe has entered into orbit around the Moon, the first European mission to do so. On Monday, Smart 1 began firing its ion engine to bring it into lunar orbit.
Intel is pressing for the adoption of dual- and multi-core processors and platforms, and will use more stringent standards for promising delivery of key products, its president said Tuesday.
RealNetworks Inc. urged digital-music lovers yesterday to stand up for their freedom of choice. They responded by exercising their freedom of speech - much to the company #39;s chagrin.
Security researchers are warning of a new worm, dubbed quot;Funner, quot; targeting Microsoft #39;s MSN Messenger instant messaging application.
Links to this week's topics from search engine forums across the web: Amazon Launches A9 Search Engine - FindWhat Announces Pay-Per-Call Ad Option - Sitemaps On The Homepage - Optimizing An Annual Reports Page - Jeeves goes to the Himalayas - How to boot someone out of Google
Yes, we #39;ve set the clocks back an hour with the end of Daylight Savings Time in the United States. But for the next few days it is worth setting your alarm clock too - to an hour before sunrise.
Business users can postpone SP2 installation to complete testing its effect on other programs.
The Cassini spacecraft is heading for its first close encounter with Saturn #39;s moon Titan tomorrow. University of Arizona scientists on the mission say Cassini will get its first real glimpse of Titan surface
Two business moguls announce plans to capitalize on the current hubbub over private spaceflight. Also: Speculation increases on whether SpaceShipOne will carry passengers on its second prize-attempt flight.... and more.
IBM #39;s affections for service-oriented architectures deepened today when Big Blue offered details on the impending version 6 release of WebSphere Application Server.
IBM planned to announce yesterday that it will invest US $250 million over the next five years and employ 1,000 people in a new business unit to support products and services related to sensor networks.
NASA Administrator Sean O #39;Keefe issued a statement regarding the damage left behind at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida in the wake of Hurricane Frances.
When the manager of a coin-operated laundry seduces a mother and daughter and convinces them to skip town, there's bound to be trouble, or perhaps a movie plot.
The European music industry today announced a major crackdown against file-sharing, the practice of sharing copyrighted songs over the internet using networks like Kazaa, with the filing of 459 suits against file-swappers, 28 of whom are British.
Global electronics giant Sony will launch its popular projection televisions with large LCD screens in China early next year, a company official said on Wednesday.
Sam blogs about his wiki spam problems and implements a posting throttle. With new spam-capable zombie PCs and with wikis that aren't updated very often this isn't a solution. If I were to go back to my wiki after a month it would be covered with spam links. One strong solution is emergent and distributed social whitelists (AKA my FOAFKey proposal). With a FOAFKey enabled wiki/weblog you could allow a whitelist of a few hundred thousand users to post to the wiki without any problems. All they would need to enter is their email address for confirmation (or the SHA1 hash of their email). For the rare times when the user isn't within the original whitelist we can just have the user uplo ...
The future suddenly looks shaky for online DVD rental pioneer Netflix Inc. #151; a plucky home entertainment upstart that managed to hold its ground after retailing giants Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Blockbuster Inc. invaded its turf.
Priceline.com and Ramada.com have agreed to make their Web pages easier to navigate for the blind and visually impaired as part of a settlement with New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer.
Orion Multisystems today unveiled a workstation that takes high-performance computing and puts it on the desktop using low-power processors from Transmeta and an innovative motherboard design.
SAN JOSE, Calif. Despite repair efforts, service outages at the online payment service PayPal continue for the fifth consecutive day.
A 3.1-magnitude earthquake shook the crater at Mount St. Helens Saturday morning, the strongest quake at the volcano since its new lava dome began growing in mid-October.
Joining in the race for entertainment products, software major Microsoft launched the Windows XP Media Centre. The new Windows XP Media Centre Edition 2005 offers a sleek, polished new look across the desktop
Standard amp; Poor #39;s Equity Research raised the price target on Nvidia (nasdaq: NVDA - news - people ) after the company announced it was jointly developing a custom graphics processing unit with Sony (nyse: SNE - news - people ).
In one of the first enforcement actions of the Americans with Disabilities Act on the Internet, two major travel services have agreed to make sites more accessible to the blind and visually impaired.
PeopleSoft's CEO admits to starting a campaign to smear Oracle right after announcement of the deal.
That's the research firm's verdict on Microsoft's stripped-down Starter Edition for developing countries.
If the new grid computer were considered a single supercomputer, it would rank behind supercomputers BlueGene/L and Columbia in the U.S. and the Earth Simulator in Japan.
The Environmental Protection Agency released an annual report on Monday that showed enforcement actions in the last fiscal year would eliminate a billion pounds of pollution from the nation #39;s air, land and water.
Paleontologists are hailing the discovery by a first-year geology student of a new species of amphibian, a salamander-like creature that lived 300 million years ago.
German telecommunications company Siemens Mobile says it is developing the first cell phone that will alert users when their breath is bad.
A NASA climate expert planned to say in a lecture on Tuesday night that a Bush administration official told him not to discuss the consequences of global warming.
A Texas-based Web site is promising hunters worldwide the chance to shoot deer and antelope with the click of a mouse. At live-shot.
The next version of the Opera browser will be integrated with SlipStream #39;s Web and email acceleration technology, Opera Software said on Thursday.