Peter Mandelson provoked fresh Labour in-fighting yesterday with an implied attack on Gordon Brown #39;s quot;exaggerated gloating quot; about the health of the British economy.
Asian shares were mostly lower on Tuesday, pulled down by technology stocks following worries about a sales forecast from bellwether Intel Corp. and unexpectedly flat industrial output in Japan.
U.S. health officials on Tuesday approved the importation of up to 4 million doses of influenza vaccine made by GlaxoSmithKline <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.L</A> <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.N</A>, bringing the U.S. total to 65 million vaccines for this flu season.
Radio One Inc. chief executive Alfred Liggins III agreed last night to buy a controlling stake in radio personality Tom Joyner's media company for $56 million, furthering his attempt to turn the radio company his mother began out of a trailer 24 years ago into a diversified media group aimed at the black community.
The House and Senate last night overwhelmingly voted to extend three tax cuts aimed at the middle class along with a bevy of business-tax breaks, sending President Bush a
Ever hear of Ed Owens? I doubt it. Owens is one of the more publicity-shy executives at Wellington Management Co., itself one of the most publicity-averse investment firms in Boston. That's one reason Owens is the city's best mutual fund manager you probably don't know.
Check on the valuation of a badly wounded stock, based on latest earnings.
Not everyone was complaining when the price of a barrel of oil flirted with the $50 mark on global markets earlier this summer. For Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, it meant more money to
The Food and Drug Administration remains on the defensive. The agency got grilled on Capitol Hill for the second day in a row about the health risks of several popular prescription drugs.
Lofty oil prices may make the road ahead a little steeper, but the economy is on track to emerge from a recent soft patch intact, private-sector economists at a weekend retreat agreed.
PeopleSoft said Thursday that it would begin meeting with investors to lobby for their rejection of Oracle #39;s hostile $8.8 billion acquisition offer.
MG ROVERS controversial directors pension trust is to be substantially scaled back as the company nears the final stages of a vital partnership that will give
* Sprint #39;s strong wireless Internet service and Nextel #39;s walkie- talkie feature popular among mobile professionals would be a competitive combination.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission voted 3-2 on Tuesday to adopt a rule that for the first time will require hedge fund advisers to register with the agency and submit to SEC examinations.
Mirant Corp. (MIRKQ.PK: Quote, Profile, Research) has named its chief financial officer to the additional role of chief restructuring officer, the bankrupt power producer said on Thursday.
L-3 Communications Corp., which supplies products used in aerospace and defense platforms, agreed to buy CAE Inc. #39;s Marine Controls division for about $225 million cash and the assumption of about $42.
J Sainsbury bowed to pressure from the City watchdog yesterday and admitted that interim profits were likely to plunge - the third time it has issued a profits warning in the past seven months.
Shares of Mylan Laboratories Inc. (MYL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) surged more than 10 percent on Thursday after billionaire investor Carl Icahn got federal regulatory approval to buy up 11.9 percent of ...
US internet giant Amazon.com is buying China's largest web retailer Joyo.com, in a deal worth $75m (41m).
news - research) will seek to buy up to a quarter of Russian oil giant Lukoil, Reuters reported Friday, citing an industry source familiar with the matter.
Nortel Networks shares fell Thursday after the troubled telecom equipment maker warned that its full-year growth in 2004 will likely trail the industry, rather than outperform its peers as the company has been predicting.
China #39;s Commerce Minister Bo Xilai ( ) urged the US and other countries to live up to World Trade Organization agreements and refrain from seeking limits on Chinese textile exports when global quotas expire next year.
Philip Green has never been afraid to redefine conventional wisdom in the worlds in which he operates. But his recrafting of what constitutes a dividend represents his most challenging thinking to date.
US retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc plans to open 15 new stores in China next year, reported China Daily on Wednesday. Joe Hatfield, president of Wal-Mart Asia, revealed the news at a press conference yesterday in Beijing.
As we watched television coverage of Hurricane Charley last weekend, my wife and I reminisced about a time nearly two decades ago when we lived in Florida and got the word to evacuate.
Delta reached a tentative agreement with its pilots' union Wednesday night on wage and benefit cuts, averting a threatened bankruptcy filing, at least for now.
The prospective winning bidder for redeveloping Fan Pier yesterday missed a deadline for a down payment and the owners of the South Boston land said they plan to talk to other potential buyers.
The fate of two local retail stores may not be known for months in the wake of the announcement Wednesday of the $11 billion merger of Kmart and Sears.
A fifth year of powerful economic growth in East Asia and the Pacific has driven the number of people living in poverty in the region to its lowest level ever, but the World Bank warned yesterday that oil prices could dampen the boom next year.
WASHINGTON: The deficit at the federal agency that rescues failed US corporate pensions more than doubled to $23.3 billion in fiscal year 2004, officials said on Monday, with analysts largely blaming bankrupt airlines.
U.S. Treasury debt yields held near seven-month lows on Tuesday after a soft reading on U.S. consumer sentiment added modestly to concerns about the economy.
The Moscow Arbitration Court on Monday upheld the tax authorities #39; demand that the embattled oil giant Yukos must pay nearly 1.34 billion US dollars in fines as part of a 4.1-billion-dollar claim for 2001.
European shares hit a fresh 10-week high on Friday as a positive report on Chinese steel demand boosted ore producers such as Anglo-American, while French utility Veolia rose after posting solid first-half earnings.
Within months of acquiring FleetBoston Financial Corp. , Bank of America Corp. handed out its sales playbook to Fleet employees in the branches to teach them how to sell.
Internal e-mails and other documents from Merck amp; Co. show the company fought for years to keep safety concerns from undermining the drug #39;s commercial prospects, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.
Shares of Cogent Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COGT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COGT.O</A> soared 50 percent in their market debut on Friday after the fingerprint identification company's initial public offering priced at the top end of its range.
Financial experts combed records Thursday at China Aviation Oil, the Singapore-listed jet fuel supplier that this week sought court protection from creditors after admitting crushing losses from speculative trading.
A final laboratory test has confirmed an Alberta dairy cow had mad cow disease, the second case Canada has found in its herd, an industry source briefed by veterinary officials said on Sunday.
People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars.
A new round has opened in the European Commission anti-trust battle against Microsoft as the judge hearing its appeal called for a closed meeting.
The leading specialty women's clothier trounces expectations and sees more opportunity in the future.
Britain's WPP Group Plc has offered to pay more than #36;1.25 billion for advertising firm Gray Global Group, the Wall Street Journal said on Thursday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.
If you #39;ve been expecting an income-tax refund but haven #39;t received it yet, there #39;s a way to check with the Internal Revenue Service.
Mitsubishi Motors North America Inc launched a television ad campaign on Monday to improve its brand image that has been tarnished by a series of recall-related scandals over the past year.
The Bush administration lobbied Chinese economic officials on Thursday to overhaul a currency regime that American manufacturers contend gives China a huge competitive advantage.
A leading index of the U.S. economy dipped in the latest week, and a continued lack of growth in the data shows no end in sight to the current slowdown, a report showed on Friday.
The economy in many areas of the United States grew at a slower pace in late July and August as household spending softened, the Federal Reserve said in a report on Wednesday.
Camera maker Eastman Kodak and IBM, the world #39;s biggest computer company, said Thursday that the two US companies had agreed to a deal in which IBM will manufacture digital image sensors for Kodak.
American International Group, the world #39;s largest insurance firm, yesterday agreed to pay $126m (67m) to settle allegations that the company helped clients to commit accounting fraud.
The Trix Rabbit and the Lucky Charms leprechaun are going on a whole-grain diet.
United Airlines #39; parent company said in a bankruptcy-court filing Thursday that it eked out a $6 million net profit last month during the middle of the busy summer travel season.
Oil prices rose on Friday as a sabotage attack on Iraqi oil infrastructure reignited concern about the reliability of crude exports from the country despite a peace deal to end an uprising in Najaf.
Howard Stern, one of the most popular US radio personalities, said Wednesday he will broadcast his show on Sirius Satellite Radio (SIRI) beginning in 2006, after being dropped earlier this year from several stations that objected to
The state #39;s securities commissioner says a settlement between securities regulators and two firms likely means $337,500 for Arkansas.
Incoming European Union trade chief Peter Mandelson said on Monday he was confident the EU would have a strong counter-case if the United States brought a claim to the World Trade Organization over aircraft subsidies.
America West Holdings Corp. (AWA.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday said it would not bid for assets of bankrupt carrier ATA Airlines, saying the value does not justify the cost.
General Motors Acceptance Corp., the finance arm of General Motors Corp. (GM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , may periodically sell up to $3 billion in adjustable-rate demand notes, according to a regulatory filing on Friday.
Insurer Cigna on Wednesday posted a nearly two-thirds lift in third quarter earnings, but also said 2005 earnings should fall from 2004 levels.
Rising interest rates could trigger a house price crash in the UK, the International Monetary Fund warned today. The Washington-based group said the
H R Block rival Jackson Hewitt waits for the tax season, and profits, to arrive.
The Carter Center and the Organization of American States said an audit of returns from Sunday #39;s recall vote won by President Hugo Chavez found no evidence of irregularities.
Oracle Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ORCL.O</A> on Friday won the backing of another key public pension fund in its $8.8-billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PSFT.O</A> as the 17-month takeover battle between the two California-based business software makers neared a key deadline.
We should all have such luck: Bobby Britton won $4 million playing the Massachusetts State Lottery and wants to get a second opinion on what to do.
American Express Co. said on Monday its quarterly earnings rose 14 percent, matching analysts #39; expectations, due to strength in the economy that spurred record card
Games maker and publisher Acclaim, famous for dino game Turok, has filed for bankruptcy in the US.
Carphone Warehouse today announced a 25 increase in the number of connections during its second quarter, with interim pre-tax profits expected to be at least 27m.
Complaints: A television commercial featuring a wild-driving youngster at the wheel angers auto-safety advocates. DETROIT - General Motors Corp.
Mayor Gavin Newsom made good on his promise to join locked-out union members on the picket line Tuesday after a group of San Francisco hotels rejected his proposed 90-day cooling off period, extending a bitter labor dispute that has left 4,000 workers
Citigroup Inc., the world #39;s biggest bank, named Sallie Krawcheck chief financial officer and head of strategy, making her the highest-ranking woman on Wall Street.
Toyota, General Motors and seven other automakers filed suit to block California's new greenhouse gas regulation, which was approved by the state in September.
The Canadian arm of a huge tobacco company has asked a Quebec court to stop a provincial lawsuit claiming $1.4 billion in unpaid taxes on smuggled cigarettes.
The satellite radio company gears up to clean up in the portable player market. Also: United States lays a clear line against internet gambling hellip;. Outsourcing continues without a hitch hellip;. and more.
OAO Yukos Oil Co., Russia #39;s second- largest oil producer, said it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the US and asked for an emergency court hearing to stop the sale of its main unit in four days.
When John P. Reilly told me to think retro, visions of Davy Crockett and coonskin caps danced in my head. I began to imagine a sleigh full of hula hoops and plenty of Silly Putty in this year's bundle of toys.
LOS ANGELES - Customer relationship management software maker Siebel Systems Inc. is moving to reinvent itself in a bid to revive its flagging fortunes and drive new growth.
PARIS Snecma, a state-run maker of airplane engines, and Sagem, a maker of mobile phones and defense electronics, said Friday that they had agreed to merge in a transaction that would create a company worth about 7.
WALL Street #39;s broad market indicators ended nearly flat today after an early rally attempt ran out of steam, but tech stocks held on for solid gains.
The country #39;s largest flight attendants union is calling for a national strike against four airlines now in bankruptcy.
Business-software maker Cognos will buy Swedish financial-reporting software company Frango for $52.2 million. Cognos says the acquisition will strengthen its portfolio of corporate performance
The march of information technology into the workplace has been greeted with a mix of awe and resistance. For all their promise of productivity gains, computers, business software, and telecommunications gear have disrupted processes at the core of a company's identity.
U.S. stock futures rose on Thursday, pointing to a higher market open, as oil prices fell toward $48 a barrel and Wall Street seemed encouraged that the Federal Reserve would not accelerate its pace of interest rate hikes.
The FBI #39;s Salt Lake City office said Friday that Utah #39;s high rate of mortgage fraud has become the focus of its campaign to combat a host of white-collar crimes committed against financial institutions.
Holiday shoppers, intent on finding bargains, descended on the Washington region's malls this morning, joining a nationwide shopping spree that has come to be known as Black Friday.
Australia #39;s S amp;P/ASX 200 Index fell for a third day. Origin Energy Ltd. declined after New Zealand #39;s Contact Energy Ltd.
Dutch retailer Ahold NV, recovering from a major accounting scandal, reported a lower-than-expected second-quarter net profit of euro32 million (US $38.
Fool contributor Tim Beyers finds that when it comes to stocks, it might pay to be Scrooge.
HSH Nordbank was pursuing legal proceedings against Barclays to recoup losses on investments, a spokesperson for the German state-owned bank said yesterday.
HONG KONG The Commerce Ministry in China plans to impose tariffs on some textile exports, a step that could avert a trade war with the United States and the European Union over a new influx of low-cost Chinese garments that had appeared likely to flood
Dr. Jerry Avorn brings convincing data and sharp analysis to ''Powerful Medicines, quot; his timely, challenging appraisal of health policy.
For many wine aficionados, the most important case in years is about to be opened. On Tuesday, the US Supreme Court will hear arguments from small wineries and state regulators
Freddie Mac <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FRE.N</A>, the second-largest U.S. home financing company which has endured a barrage of intense public scrutiny in over the past year, on Friday revised its 2003 net income down by $75 million to cover a reserve for legal expenses, according to its annual report.
The company's revenue and earnings are just two reasons to like this stock.
U.S. stocks were flat on Monday as investors took some profits after a three-day rally last week, with interest rates and a weakening dollar taking center stage now that the presidential election is over.
Anil Ambani resigns from the petrochemical unit of Indian giant Reliance, renewing rumours of a management feud with elder brother Mukesh.
With poker's popularity growing because of televised tournaments, retailers are betting that playing cards and chips will be among the must-have items during the holiday shopping season.
Oil prices jumped a dollar on Thursday after the U.S. government said crude stocks fell to a fresh five-month low last week and distillate fuel inventories barely grew ahead of winter.
Leaders of the Air Line Pilots Association said US Airways' plan to cut salaries and benefits of management was welcome news, but does not constitute a deal.
Oil prices eased on Monday after rebels in Nigeria withdrew a threat to target oil operations, but lingering concerns over stretched supplies ahead of winter kept prices close to #36;50.
A profit warning from Coca-Cola took the fizz out of leading Wall St shares and sent the main indices sharply lower. At the closing bell, the Dow Jones was down 86.
PeopleSoft Inc. rebuffed Oracle Corp. #39;s latest hostile takeover bid, vowing to fight the $9.2 billion offer even if a majority of shareholders supported it.
High-flying oil prices paused in their ascent on Thursday as the U.S. government considered whether to release crude from the U.S. petroleum reserve after Hurricane Ivan sliced into supplies.
Captain Chuck Anderson from the Salvation Army is spraying the kettles red, in preparation for their annual Christmas fundraiser. He says, quot;Last year we helped almost 1500 children and senior citizens and over 600 families.
which cost 130million and opened only 10 years ago - is to close. The fleet of Eurostar trains, which connect London with Paris
Cisco Systems Inc., the biggest maker of equipment that directs data over the Internet, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose 29 percent on stronger demand for its networking gear.
Stocks edged lower Wednesday as investors weighed rising oil prices against a pair of government reports that gave a mixed picture about the economy.
Stocks staged a modest rally Wednesday as Wall Street embraced President Bush #39;s reelection and cheered the absence of a prolonged legal fight for the White House.
Malaysia's AirAsia is leaning toward European aircraft maker Airbus for an order of up to 80 short-haul planes, a source close to the airline said on Monday, in what would be another blow to rival Boeing.
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said a group of bond holders refused to change the terms of their securities, adding to the headwinds
Investors following Oracle Corp. #39;s hostile takeover battle with PeopleSoft Inc. got plenty of information to digest this week, including bold predictions
Casual Male caters to a big clientele but has to overcome a hefty debt load.
Japanese shares fell at the start of a holiday-shortened week on Tuesday as brokers and banks declined on recent data indicating signs of an economic slowdown in some key areas, offsetting gains in some chip-related stocks.
Tyson Foods Inc <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TSN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">TSN.N</A>., the world's largest meat company, said on Thursday that high beef prices may have consumers shifting to pork and chicken, but its beef segment should do well later this year.
European insurance giant Axa has withdrawn its Aust. $3.4 billion ( $2.48 billion) offer for the 48.3 percent of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings it doesn #39;t own after independent directors
JM Smucker Co., the largest US maker of jellies and jams, sold its operations in Brazil to closely held Cargill Inc. The sale of Smucker do Brasil Ltda.
The Bush administration announced Thursday it would provide US refineries with limited quantities #39; #39; of crude oil from the nation #39;s emergency stockpile to help offset supply
G.E.'s sale may set off a trend as other multinational companies move from owning back-office units to outsourcing to independent companies.
The index-fund-pioneering firm Vanguard is making college more affordable - by lowering the fees it charges on the 529 plan it runs. Most states offer 529 plans, and you can often participate in the plan of a state other than the one where you live or where your young one will attend college. Thus, the fact that the Vanguard 529 College Savings Plan is sponsored by the state of Nevada shouldn't make you click out of this article. Keep reading.
The world's largest gold producer, Newmont Mining Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NEM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">NEM.N</A>, on Wednesday said higher gold prices drove up quarterly profit by 12.5 percent, even though it sold less of the precious metal.
International Business Machines Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IBM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">IBM.N</A> has settled for an undisclosed sum part of a potentially multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over its pension plan, a Wednesday court filing shows.
Shares of Elpida Memory Inc., a chipmaking joint venture between Japanese electronics giants Hitachi Ltd. and NEC Corp.
Asian investors took advantage of a pause in climbing oil prices on Thursday to buy beaten-down technology stocks, autos and other exporters, snapping a nine-session losing streak by Japan's key stock index.
Dubai Ports International (DPI), a leading world port operator, announced it had acquired the international terminal business conducted by CSX World Terminals (CSXWT) for 1.15 billion dollars.
Oil futures prices rose in Europe Thursday amid concerns about heating oil supplies at the beginning of the Northern Hemisphere winter.
The Federal Aviation Administration must improve oversight of air carriers and passengers who bring hazardous materials onto planes, according to a report
President Arroyo has asked her economic managers to lay the groundwork for the declaration of an unsustainable public deficit which will allow the national government
So when a consortium of investors led by the Sony Corporation of America announced that it had reached a deal in principle to acquire Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for nearly $5 billion, it came
Forget about IBM and all the other dinosaurs. But remember the investment lessons they offer.
The Vanguard Group, the second-biggest U.S. mutual fund firm, said on Thursday it has closed the $1.4 billion Vanguard International Explorer Fund to thwart speculative short-term investors and protect long-term shareholders.
The term quot;blog quot; has been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a US dictionary publisher. Merriam-Webster said quot;blog quot; headed the list of most looked-up terms on its site during the last twelve months.
IBM is claiming unofficial bragging rights as owner of the world #39;s fastest supercomputer. IBM says its still-unfinished quot;BlueGene System quot; can sustain speeds of 36 teraflops.
Trendsetter Martha Stewart reported to a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for a suspicious sale of stock, U.S. prison officials said.
The parent company of American Airlines said it must refinance or replace an $834 million credit facility or it might not be able to comply with one of the covenants of the loan, according to news reports Thursday.
Putin signs law restricting airtime and content in effort to curb his country #39;s alcohol intake. MOSCOW (Reuters) - A sweeping ban on beer advertising in Russia became law Tuesday in a move to curb the country #39;s
The announcement was called a breakthrough in the US Justice Department #39;s long investigation into price-fixing allegations in the semiconductor industry.
American courts came into direct conflict with Russia yesterday, after Russia insisted it would push on with plans to sell off the main chunk of stricken oil giant Yukos
Riding the tail of a shark, DreamWorks Animation Inc. arrives on Wall Street today in the most high-profile entertainment company initial public offering in years.
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed over one percent higher on Tuesday after positive U.S. retail sales data eased concern about demand in Japan's main export market and spurred buying of blue chips such as Sony Corp.
A new gold-backed security named streetTRACKS Gold Shares made a much-hyped debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, aimed a attracting the investment capital that helped lift the bullion price to a 16-year high
House of Fraser has posted narrower first-half losses on improved gross margins and announced a new partnership deal with Barclaycard to manage its customer account cards.
Delta Air Lines said Wednesday it has revised its 2003 annual report to include a new report by its independent auditor warning that bankruptcy is looming.
A union warns of "very serious problems over Christmas" if its members vote to strike in a row over pay.
Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical firm says it will also close a research facility in North Carolina in effort to reduce drug prices.
Crude oil futures rose to a record for a third day, reaching US $52.53 a barrel in New York, on concern US supplies may be insufficient to meet demand this winter.
When Internet-based companies, especially ones the size of Oracle and PeopleSoft, announce fundamental changes, responses are usually swift.
One of my favorite pastimes as the final ruling on expensing stock options came upon us has been to read the increasingly hysterical opinion pages of the San Jose Mercury News, the newspaper of record for Silicon Valley.
Microsoft will pay as much as $500 million as a part of settlement of the antitrust lawsuit that may be filed by rival software maker Novell, the company said Monday, within an attempt to end its antitrust fight.
MOSCOW The stakes are high in the much-publicized feud between the Kremlin and the Russian oil giant Yukos - so high that the outcome of that battle will shape how the country #39;s energy industry grows in 2005 and beyond.
SOFTBANK, Japan #39;s largest internet provider, has complained that its plan to offer a new mobile phone service could be thwarted by the government #39;s refusal to provide the necessary bandwidth.
The United Nations Conference on Trade amp; Development (UNCTAD) on Wednesday placed India among the top four Asian foreign direct investment (FDI) destinations and said it will get more foreign investment flows as the global economy rebounds
The dollar clung to most of the previous session's gains against the euro on Monday after a positive U.S. jobs report last week reinforced expectations for an interest rate rise this month.
White Plains, NY - Former Coca-Cola Company president Steven Heyer today was named the new chief executive of Starwood Hotels, effective Oct. 1. Heyer succeeds Starwood founder Barry
UK biotechnology company Cambridge Antibody Technology has announced a five-year alliance with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca. CAT said AstraZeneca will make an upfront equity investment in CAT worth 75
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--Australia #39;s WMC Resources Ltd. (WMC) on Thursday said it recently received a conditional takeover proposal from London-listed resource major Xstrata PLC (XTA.
MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India surprised the market on Tuesday by raising the overnight benchmark repo rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent, citing concerns about a rise in inflation in Asia #39;s fourth-largest economy.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is close to settling a class action lawsuit for $220 million stemming from allegations that it colluded with other brokerages to mislead Enron Corp.
quot;Over the river and through the woods quot; isn #39;t just a musical refrain as we enter the holiday season . It #39;s the real thing for most Americans, who are expected to hit the road in record numbers this year.
Warren Buffett, the world #39;s second-richest man, is targeting California workers #39; compensation insurance; betting recent reforms will make the ailing market more profitable.
The shift would in all probability save the company more than 10 million pounds a year. The jobs would range from front and back office functions, including call centre posts.
Embattled Russian oil group YUKOS (YUKO.RTS: Quote, Profile, Research) should hear later on Thursday whether a US bankruptcy court will attempt to hold up the
Bee Staff Writer. The University of California, negotiating on behalf of Enron Corp. investors, reached a $222.5 million settlement Friday with the Lehman Brothers brokerage firm over its part in the multibillion-dollar Enron debacle.
Two days after a PeopleSoft Inc. board member suggested the company may be willing to sell to Oracle Corp. for the right price, an Oracle director said his firm #39;s offer to buy its Pleasanton rival for $21 per share may not be final.
The US Supreme Court, as expected, let stand a ruling against Visa and MasterCard for anti-competitive practices on Monday, handing a victory to their arch-rival American Express.
The unusual strategy adopted by the Federal Reserve in the summer of 2003 for stoking the US economy without cutting interest rates was a clear success, researchers at the US central bank have concluded in a new study.
Nippon Steel Corp. has told Toyota, Honda and Nissan it wants to raise steel prices for the second time this year, the Asahi Shimbun reports.
The outside directors of Marsh McLennan <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> have talked to New York's attorney general about having its chief executive step aside amid a probe into its business practices, the Wall Street Journal said on Friday.
NEW DELHI: The UPA government on Wednesday hiked the foreign equity limit in domestic airlines from 40 per cent to 49 per cent, but maintained the ban on international airlines from buying equity in the Indian carriers, even indirectly.
East Kilbride-based dairy group Robert Wiseman is celebrating its second major milk contract after sealing a new deal with supermarket giant Tesco.
The departure Tuesday of Stephen Friedman, who left Wall Street to assume one of the top economic posts in the White House as director of the National Economic Council, will open a key economic policy position just as President Bush begins his ambitious push to overhaul Social Security and the tax code.
A federal bankruptcy judge has given United Airlines a 30-day quot;test period quot; to show it can cooperate with its unions on a restructuring plan, rejecting union calls to open the process up to rival proposals immediately because United has not
The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed yesterday to cut the supply of oil to world markets and defend higher prices in spite of concern about
Interstate Bakeries, the maker of Wonder Bread, Hostess Twinkies and other baked goods, denied conjecture that it would be filing for bankruptcy.
Cash America International Inc. (PWN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , one of the world #39;s largest pawn shop operators, on Wednesday said it would buy the pawn operating assets of Camco Inc.
Rebates are getting easier. Instead of making it as difficult as possible for a consumer to claim a rebate, some retailers are simplifying the process, figuring fewer hassles along the way will build customer loyalty and raise sales.
Cellphone users accustomed to using their phones to play computer games, listen to music, and take pictures now have something new to do with their wireless telephones: respond to magazine and outdoor advertisements.
Asian stocks rose in US trading. Sony Corp. gained after the world #39;s No. 2 consumer-electronics maker agreed to resolve a dispute over patents related to digital cameras.
For 18 months, Office Depot executives have delved into the minutiae of the retailer #39;s financial controls, scrutinizing how it accounts for the goods it buys and testing to see, for example, that daily sales match daily deposits.
Nationwide, the UK #39;s largest building society, yesterday warned that more than 40pc of Britons believe they face a retirement of financial hardship, while the Consumers
Banking giant UBS (UBSN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research) was cautious over prospects for the rest of the year after a seasonal lull in trading hurt its third-quarter
A discussion of Venezuela #39;s political crisis should not begin or end with a cautionary parable about Herbert Mathews, but his image is hard to shake.
Canada #39;s Goldcorp said Sunday it has reached an agreement in principal to buy Wheaton River Minerals in an all-stock deal valued at about $2 billion.
Fabric and craft retailer lowers its profit outlook for both the third quarter and full year. ATLANTA (Reuters) - Shares of fabric and craft retailer Jo-Ann Stores Inc.
If you think oil is expensive now, just imagine if Hurricane Ivan had swung west and come ashore at this bustling oil and gas port at the southernmost point of Louisiana.
Foreign investors may be allowed to bid for the key oil producing subsidiary of embattled Russian oil firm Yukos. Moscow authorities are forcing the sale of Yuganskneftegas, which accounts for 60 of the firm #39;s
Reynolds American reports a third-quarter profit of $339 million in its first earnings report since the combination of RJ Reynolds and the US operations of Brown and Williamson Tobacco.
After winning union acceptance of job cuts, Alitalia gave formal approval Monday to a four-year business plan aimed at saving the near-bankrupt Italian airline from collapse.
The European Commission said Tuesday that it has approved Oracle Corp. #39;s $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft Inc., removing the last antitrust obstacle to the hostile takeover attempt.
Sprint is close to an agreement to buy Nextel for more than $35 billion in a mostly stock deal, sources familiar with the situation said on Friday.
Lawyers leading a record-setting sex discrimination case against Wal-Mart Stores said on Tuesday they filed a lawsuit against Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , claiming the company kept women out of top ...
Pilots at Delta Air Lines overwhelmingly approved a new five-year contract today with $1 billion in annual concessions sought by the airline, which had threatened to file for bankruptcy if the pilots did not acquiesce.
Most of the signs attached to Brady's most recent quarter say "Don't Exit."
Zimbabwe's tobacco crop, one of the country's main exportable commodities, falls for the fourth year running.
When President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva visited China in May of 2004, he was like an innocent abroad. He naively thought the Chinese would welcome his attempts to form a strategic partnership between two of the worlds largest developing countries.
In response to the letter quot;Glad some still let bells ring quot; (People #39;s Forum, Dec. 8), it is true that Target is no longer letting Salvation Army bell ringers stand at the front of their stores.
News Corporation shareholders have approved the company #39;s decision to move its headquarters from Australia to United States. At a extraordinary meeting in Adelaide, more than 90 of shareholders voted to support
TiVo Inc., a maker of digital recorders for televisions, on Monday posted a wider third-quarter loss on an investment in subscription acquisition activities, but the company performed better than Wall Street expected.
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits rose last week. The Labor Department says claims, reflecting the impact of hurricanes in Florida, increased by a seasonally adjusted 14,000 to 350,000.
Business confidence in Germany, Europe #39;s largest economy, fell to its lowest level in more than a year in November as the euro #39;s climb to a record high against the dollar threatened exports and unemployment at a five-year high crimped consumer spending
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed down 0.17 percent on Tuesday as growing worries over the domestic economic outlook hit banks and insurers, offsetting gains in shipping firms and others with bright earnings prospects.
Northwest Airlines Corp. (NWAC.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said Chief Executive Richard Anderson is leaving the company to join a health care group, as the airline struggles
Employees at the institutional investing unit of brokerage Charles Schwab (SCH ) are anxiously awaiting an announcement from management that their division is to be sold to investment bank UBS (UBS ) for a reported $265 million.
Oil prices surged to new record highs on Monday near $50 for U.S. crude as Nigeria emerged as the latest focus for worries about supply security on world energy markets.
Intel, the world #39;s largest manufacturer of semiconductors used in personal computers and servers, reported third-quarter sales and earnings that were roughly in line with Wall Street #39;s diminished expectations.
The dollar edged up against the yen on Thursday as surprisingly limp machinery orders data for Japan helped investors to recoup earlier losses made on cautious remarks about U.S. growth by the Federal Reserve chief.
A judge ruled today that three British bankers can be extradited to the United States to face wire fraud charges related to off-balance sheet dealings with the Enron energy group.
Exporters led a fall in Asian shares on Monday as oil prices set new highs near #36;47 and data showing the U.S. trade deficit widened to a record raised fresh concern about the health of the world's largest economy.
Walt Disney Co. said Thursday that profit jumped 24 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter, driven by growth at its television networks, theme parks and consumer products businesses.
With a fall in oil prices easing inflation concerns, the Federal Reserve is expected to continue its easy-does-it approach to raising interest rates, boosting a key rate by a moderate quarter-point at its final meeting of the year today.
Calpers, the biggest US pension fund, on Thursday said it had tendered its 1.5 million shares of PeopleSoft Inc. (PSFT.O: Quote, Profile, Research) to Oracle Corp.
But exports to Europe safe after the Russian oil firm seals a barter deal with pipeline monopoly. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Yukos #39; crippling tax debts finally forced the Russian oil major to make a much-feared production cut Wednesday.
Australia #39;s Computershare has agreed to buy EquiServe of the United States for US $292 million ( $423 million), making it the largest US share registrar and driving its shares up by a third.
Robust research doesn't guarantee success, but Pedro Zuloaga insists it stacks your odds.
A sparsely populated western state best known for potatoes is becoming a magnet for tech entrepreneurs. The slow pace, absence of traffic and low-rise landscape has helped lure 800 tech companies to the state.
Verizon Communications Inc. said yesterday it will extend a powerful new fiber-optic network capable of delivering cable television to 1 million US homes and businesses by year's end, including more than 100,000 in suburban Boston.
AMR Corp., the owner of American Airlines, said Friday that it received a $850 million, revolving credit line, replacing a $834 million line that was set to expire next year.
Swiss drug maker Novartis Pharma AG said Monday that the Food and Drug Administration has again requested more information on the company #39;s Certican treatment, when used in combination with Neoral, to prevent heart and kidney transplant rejection episodes
Oracles 18-month hostile takeover battle for PeopleSoft came to an end on Friday evening with a single phone call. A PeopleSoft director, through an attorney, contacted Oracle with the lucky number: $26.50
Lehman Brothers analyst Blake Bath said in a research note earlier this week that SBC might reduce its workforce by 10,000 to 20,000 to bring its costs in line with those at other dominant local telephone companies, such as Verizon Communications Inc.
Computer Associates International Inc. said Monday it has revoked home security and office support benefits to former Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Kumar, who was indicted last week on
Target #39;s decision to ban The Salvation Army bell ringers from stores has sparked a backlash, according to news reports from around the country.
BRUSSELS Microsoft said Monday that it had reached legal settlements with two of its biggest adversaries in the software industry, Novell and the Computer and Communications Industry Association.
Penn National Gaming is buying Argosy Gaming, which operates Indiana #39;s largest riverboat casino, in a stock deal worth $2.2 billion that includes $805 million in long-term debt, the companies said yesterday.
OPEC members were divided yesterday on whether their output should be increased in a bid to boost global supply that might cause oil prices to drop.
Japan's Nikkei share average fell 0.36 percent at the opening on Wednesday as profit-taking pushed down recent gainers including Bridgestone Corp. after the market had risen in the previous four sessions.
Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. announced Wednesday its group net profit fell 43.1 percent in the fiscal first half from a year earlier to 171.7 billion yen, while merger partner UFJ
QANTAS yesterday shrugged off the exit of its major shareholder, with the stock buoyed by the prospect of more international alliances now that British Airways is off its share registry.
Google rose $14.97 to close at $187.40 per share, giving it a market value of $51.4 billion compared to $47.9 billion for Internet rival Yahoo.
About 3,000 shoppers were evacuated from a Toys quot;R quot; Us store in Times Square yesterday after pepper spray was set off inside, fire officials said.
Energy utility TXU Corp. on Monday more than quadrupled its quarterly dividend payment and raised its projected earnings for 2004 and 2005 after a companywide performance review.
The US trade deficit has exploded 19 to a record $55.8bn as oil costs drove imports higher, according to a latest figures.
It signalled this in no uncertain terms when oil prices fell below US $50 ( $83) mark on Monday. US light crude dipped to US $49 at one point before ending at US $49.
Kimberly-Clark Corp. said Monday it aims to cut costs by $400 million to $500 million over the next three years, and plans to boost its dividend by 12.5 percent and repurchase at least $1 billion in stock during 2005.
ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, received a subpoena from New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and said it #39;s cooperating with his insurance market probe.
China has agreed to step in and pay Russian rail fees to ensure that it continues to receive Yukos oil if the company is unable to cover the transport costs, officials at Russia #39;s rail transport monopoly said Wednesday.
A special committee of Hollinger International, which was instrumental in ousting Conrad Black as head of the Chicago-based newspaper company, filed its final report in an Illinois court yesterday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it plans to increase its store space by 8 percent in the fiscal year beginning in February, including 240 to
Although problems still hang over the company, Bristol-Myers is paving the way for recovery.
Boston Scientific Corp. could face tougher competition in markets for cardiac products if talks between two of its largest competitors lead to a merger, analysts and investors said.
Synopsys Inc., which makes software used in the design of microchips, on Wednesday reported fourth-quarter sales slumped 27 percent, triggering a loss for the period.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing biotechnology companies as part of a wider effort to ensure that companies don #39;t mislead investors
Maxim Pharmaceutical's Ceplene produces disappointing results.
The Longaberger Co. is reducing the size of a planned layoff to 784 employees, down from its July estimate of 970. The Newark-based basket maker said the jobs will end Sept.
Rival trans-Tasman airlines Air New Zealand and Qantas have far from abandoned their dreams of an alliance, despite it failing to clear yet another hurdle.
Shares of Sprint Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FON.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FON.N</A> rose 5.4 percent before the bell on Tuesday after the Wall Street Journal reported that Verizon Communications <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VZ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">VZ.N</A> has gained the backing of partner Vodafone Group <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VOD.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">VOD.L</A> to bid for Sprint.
Dow Jones amp; Company, which publishes vital business and financial news and information, announced that the Far Eastern Economic Review will change its format from a news weekly to a monthly magazine of issues and ideas, largely written by
Financial group Fortis has reported a bigger-than-expected rise in earnings and says it is growing more upbeat about 2004, with both its banking and insurance units posting strong gains.
Sears Canada Inc. has dismissed Mark Cohen as chairman and chief executive officer, citing quot;strategic differences quot; between him and the board of directors.
ALAN GREENSPAN, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, undercut lingering hopes of staging an operation to support the dollar at a meeting of bankers in Frankfurt yesterday
Pfizer Inc., the world #39;s biggest drugmaker, said Wednesday third-quarter earnings rose on higher sales of key medicines. The New York based company said it earned $3.
United Parcel Service, the US delivery company, is to take direct control of its core international express operations in China, paying US $100m to buy out its local partner, Hong Kong-listed Sinotrans.
President Vladimir Putin said Monday that Russia and Belarus have put a sharp dispute over natural gas deliveries behind them and that there are no obstacles to good relations.
A High Court judge on Wednesday approved a debt-for-equity survival plan developed by MyTravel, clearing the way for the troubled travel company to present the proposal to shareholders and creditors next month.
Prudential Equity Group raised its earnings estimates for Automatic Data Processing (nyse: ADP - news - people ) after the payroll and data processing services firm reported better-than-expected fiscal first-quarter results.
A US government auditor says the US Army should withhold 15 per cent of future payments to Halliburton for work in Iraq due to billing disputes - in a move that could cost the contractor tens of millions of dollars.
Northwest Airlines Corp. canceled controversial fees on tickets bought through some travel agents after the agents and fare distributors objected and rivals didn #39;t match the higher cost.
Blaming the complexity of the task, Nortel Networks Corp. is delaying the release of long-awaited financial results by another month, to late October, and may seek another delay of its annual meeting.
quot;We were wrong about Vioxx, but you can trust us on all those other meds, quot; the FDA seems to be saying. If you enjoy this article, you may also be interested in an article entitled #39;The FDA remains in state of denial about drug safety questions.
Safeway Inc. , the third-largest U.S. grocer, on Tuesday reported a lower quarterly profit as it grappled with lingering costs from a labor strike in California earlier this year.
Carbon dioxide emissions will be almost 40 higher by the end of the decade than they were in 1990 despite growing use of renewable energy, the International Energy Agency said yesterday.
Electronic Data Systems Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=EDS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">EDS.N</A>, one of the world's biggest computer services companies, is likely to cut up to 20,000 jobs over the next two years, the company's chief executive said on Thursday.
Turkish mobile operator Turkcell is going ahead with a network in Iran, despite a law giving Iranian MPs a veto over foreign investment.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--James Hardie Industries NV (JHX) said Monday it is willing to help the medical fund it established to pay victims of asbestos-related illnesses avert a liquidity crisis.
General Mills announced Monday that it is selling its stake in a European snack operation to PepsiCo for $750 million.
Defense stocks soared to 52-week highs Wednesday morning as George W. Bush was poised to make a speech accepting re-election, a situation promising continued spending on overseas warfare.
NYMEX crude kept close to record highs near #36;54 early on Tuesday as global oil supplies remained hounded by disruptions, magnifying concerns over U.S. heating oil stocks ahead of the winter, traders said.
Corus Group Plc, the UK #39;s biggest steelmaker, reported its first profit and revived plans to sell 500 million euros ( $608 million) of bonds to refinance debt after it benefited from higher steel prices and cost cuts.
Wall Street was expected edge higher at Tuesday's opening as the price of U.S. crude oil eased, with insurers firming after the head of Marsh McLennan Cos. Inc.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> resigned.
As the high-pressure holiday travel season rolls in, the transportation industry is anticipating some of the highest numbers seen in four years.
US bankruptcy judge agrees to consider airline #39;s motion to cancel pact, save $725 million a year. CHICAGO (Reuters) - A federal bankruptcy judge agreed Friday to consider a motion by United Airlines to cancel
More than 700 Wisconsin residents haven #39;t received federal tax refunds worth a total of more than $479,000 because the checks were returned to the Internal Revenue Service as undeliverable.
Union says pilots may retire en masse to get payments rather than ride out possible bankruptcy. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines Inc.
Gary L. Pilgrim and Harold J. Baxter, founders of a tech-based mutual fund that blazed and then fizzled in the 1990s, agreed yesterday to pay $160 million to settle
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--US private equity group Newbridge Capital Inc. (NBG.XX) said Wednesday it plans to expand Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality Group Ltd.
The decision comes on top of 12,500 job cuts that the bank initially said it would eliminate during the merger. The bank #39;s move drew fire from two Massachusetts
Oil prices perked up from 7-week lows on Friday on forecasts for colder-than-normal weather in the U.S. Northeast.
A former assistant treasurer at toppled energy giant Enron Corp. pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge Tuesday for his alleged role in making Enron #39;s financial picture appear rosier than it really was.
Italy's public accounts are in quot;serious quot; imbalance and corrective measures are needed to prevent the public deficit from skyrocketing above the European Union limit in the coming years, Bank of Italy governor Antonio Fazio said.
United States health titan Johnson and Johnson has reached a deal to acquire American heart device manufacturer Guidant, in a stock-and-cash deal valued at $23.9-billion, based on $76 per share, the companies said in a statement early on
The Italian Treasury has raised 7.5 billion euros ( $9.5 billion) from the sale of almost 20 percent of utility company Enel (ENEI.
The rise in retail sales was the best showing since March. Also, producer prices rose 0.1 percent in September.
Economy: With consumer confidence down and spending up, shoppers wrestle with #39;stop-and-go #39; mixed signals.
Plug Power Inc., a maker of on-site power generation systems for commercial and residential dwellings, on Tuesday said Tyco Electronics Power Systems Inc.
Non-energy income trusts are disappointing investors, with two more cutting or suspending their cash distributions to unitholders this week and causing the value of their units to plummet.
The REIT's commercial mortgage-backed securities may be tied to Rouse's prestigious mall portfolio.
Shares of drugmaker Merck amp; Co. Inc. (MRK.N: Quote, Profile, Research) traded 1.52 percent higher on volume of more than 61,000 shares in pre-market dealings on Friday, a day after
Former President Bill Clinton helped launch a new Internet search firm that claims better results for its engine than Google (nasdaq: GOOG - news - people ). The firm is called Accoona, from the Swahili phrase
Toyota Motor Corp., the world #39;s second- largest carmaker, had an unexpected drop in quarterly profit as investment earnings at its truck making unit fell and a stronger yen cut the value of overseas sales.
Oil and gas producer Kerr-McGee Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KMG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">KMG.N</A> on Wednesday reported a fall in quarterly profit, citing a writedown related to a pigment plant and higher environmental charges.
#39; #39;The Oprah Winfrey Show quot; was the best advertising an estimated $8 million could buy for the launch of the Pontiac G6 sedan.
Volkswagen workers staged a new round of brief stoppages early Monday, keeping up pressure on the automaker ahead of wage talks in which the company is sticking to a demand for a two-year pay freeze.
Orders for chip-equipment placed with North American manufacturers declined in August and could decline further in coming months, an industry trade group said late Thursday.
Russian oil giant Yukos is to ask a Moscow court for more time to pay its tax bill.
On Monday, the same day the California Senate passed a bill that would ban state agencies from contracting services out to companies that use overseas labor, opponents and proponents of offshore outsourcing clashed during a conference at Stanford University.
U.S. stocks rose on Wednesday lifted by a merger between retailers Kmart and Sears, better-than-expected earnings from Hewlett-Packard and data showing a slight rise in core inflation.
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. said Monday that its losses jumped for the first half of the fiscal year as the Japanese automaker struggled to recover from an auto-defect scandal that has sent sales plunging.
FOR THE first time, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo acknowledged yesterday that the country was in a fiscal crisis, a move meant to rally the public behind her tax reform and cost-cutting measures to avert an Argentina-like financial meltdown in the
Nearly three years after Enron Corp.'s dramatic collapse into bankruptcy, the first criminal trial against the disgraced energy company's former employees is set to kick off on Monday.
National Semiconductor Corp. said Monday it agreed to sell its imaging business, which makes chips used in small cameras and cell phones, to camera giant Eastman Kodak Co.
ATA Holdings, the bankrupt parent of ATA Airlines, took a key step Thursday toward salvaging more of its struggling operations.
Rite Aid Corp. (RAD.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the third-largest US drugstore chain, on Tuesday warned that if current sales trends continue its fiscal 2005 results would fall below expectations it gave in September.
Figuring out which way the winds are blowing in the chip sector just got harder. Recent news suggests the all-encompassing rally off the September lows has ended and the sector #39;s investors will have to be much more selective going forward.
The company will fight the order to reveal its software code to rivals. Also: Startup wants Google to feel outdated hellip;. Sony plasters Europe with Walkmans hellip;. and more.
America's factories saw orders for costly manufactured goods post the biggest gain in four months, a sign that the economy is emerging from an early summer funk.
Bee Staff Writer. Sean Harrigan, ousted from the board of the California Public Employees #39; Retirement System, is lobbying for a return to the powerful pension fund, but his campaign does
Colgate-Palmolive Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CL.N</A> on Monday issued its first formal profit warning in almost a decade, saying earnings will fall well short of Wall Street forecasts due to higher marketing spending, sending its shares down 11 percent to a four-year low.
Power company Progress Energy Inc. lowered its 2004 earnings outlook Friday because damage from Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Ivan limits the amount of tax credits the company can claim for its synthetic fuel production.
Dell Inc. said Thursday its third-quarter profit rose 25 percent from a year earlier as the No. 1 personal-computer maker boosted sales of its PCs, laptops and other gear by 18 percent.
Diversified manufacturer Honeywell International Inc. posted a rise in quarterly profit as strong demand for aerospace equipment and automobile components boosted revenues, the company said on Wednesday.
Millionaire executive Martha Stewart announced Wednesday that she decided to begin her prison sentence for lying about a stock trade as soon as possible.
The dollar hit an eight-month low against the euro on Tuesday, coming within a cent of a record low, and set its lowest level in eight years versus Swiss franc on concerns about the U.S. economy and current account gap.
As if Intel's profit bomb didn't put enough of a damper on the summer-ending long weekend, investors returning next week after Labor Day will be wary of a market offering as much pitfall as promise.
Stocks seesawed in afternoon trade Thursday, with blue chips struggling to maintain their gains while techs edged lower following warnings from Google.
they will have completed the easy part. The harder part, industry executives and analysts
Personal computer maker Gateway Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GTW.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GTW.N</A> on Thursday posted a net loss that narrowed from a year earlier and bettered its own forecast, helped by higher PC sales and lower costs.
Some people don #39;t think about federal income taxes until the first week of April. Others jump on them in late January, as soon as their W-2s show up in the mail.
A Delaware judge ruled yesterday that co-op owners at the Watergate East were within their rights when they voted this summer to reject the offer of a D.C. developer to purchase property as part of a plan to convert the Watergate Hotel into more luxury co-ops.
DaVita Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DVA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DVA.N</A> is close to an agreement to acquire the dialysis operations of Sweden's Gambro AB for about $3 billion in a deal that would create the No. 1 U.S. provider of dialysis services, a source familiar with the situation said on Monday.
Despite cautionary words from Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge last week about the impact of the rising dollar, Canadian gross domestic product likely grew at a healthy 3.5 clip in the third quarter due to strong consumer spending.
A sharp drop in oil prices gave Wall Street a modest relief rally yesterday, with stocks edging higher on news that oil production had soared during the month of September.
The price of gold rose to a 16-year high above $455 an ounce on Wednesday as investors piled into the hard asset amid widespread worries about the dropping U.S. dollar.
Automaker DaimlerChrysler AG said Friday it will book a charge of 400 million euro in the third quarter to cover the cost of recalls and past quality problems at Japanese truckmaker Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corp.
LSI Logic (LSI ) says based on customer reassessment of end demand for the second half of the year, it lowered the $435 million to $465 million third-quarter revenue guidance to $370 million to $400 million, and cut the breakeven to 3-cent third-quarter
GlaxoSmithKline agreed on Thursday to post the results of all clinical trials of its drugs, both positive and negative, on the Internet.
Fueled by the ongoing economic rally, businesses are boosting their contributions to 401(k) plans.
By Bloomberg News. Whole Foods Market Inc., the largest natural-foods grocer in the United States, said yesterday that fourth-quarter profit rose 27 percent as sales increased.
Bookseller Borders Group Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BGP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BGP.N</A> on Tuesday slashed its financial forecast, saying sales were weaker than expected due in part to hurricanes, and that profits during the key holiday season would miss Wall Street estimates.
Some large health insurers are feeling vindicated after Merck #39;s decision to withdraw its painkiller Vioxx from the market because long-term use raises the risk of heart attack or stroke.
One out of every four working American families earns wages so low they struggle to survive financially, according to a report due out today.
Theodore Forstmann, a pioneer in the leveraged buyout frenzy of the 1980s and 1990s, plans to leave the business in 2006, the New York Times said on Sunday.
The retailing company Kmart Holding Corp. has appointed Aylwin Lewis, formerly an executive at the restaurant operator Yum Brands Inc.
Japan's Nikkei share average was up 0.64 percent in mid-morning trade on Monday after a fall in the yen helped some exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp.
On Thursday, biotechnology companies Genentech Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. said US regulators have approved their drug Tarceva for treating the most common form of lung cancer.
Wal-Mart is reducing its forecast for same store sales for the month of August. It is blaming store closures caused by Hurricane Charley last week.
Software maker PeopleSoft is girding itself for a proxy battle as part of its 17-month takeover battle with Oracle, indicating it fears its shareholders are tempted to sell to its rival.
The dollar slumps to a new record low against the euro, breaching the $1.30 level on news of another large trade deficit.
news - research) is never boring! Monday night, the company announced that its phase III Genasense study in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) met its primary endpoint, which was tumor shrinkage.
The Royal Bank of Canada, the country #39;s biggest bank, said yesterday it suffered a 5 drop in third-quarter profit, displaying weakness in its US operations and citing tight interest-rate spreads and rising expenses.
WOOLWORTHS Ltd chief executive Mr Roger Corbett yesterday signalled a shift in the supermarket battlefront away from petrol discounting as the retail group tipped 10-15 per cent profit growth in 2004-2005.
British Airways announced Friday that it was increasing its fuel surcharge on both short-haul and long-haul flight tickets because of rising oil prices.
Shares in AstraZeneca Plc fell as much as 10 percent on Friday after regulators in the United States and Europe raised safety concerns about the Anglo-Swedish drug maker's anti-cholesterol treatment Crestor.
In a surprise move, PeopleSoft issued a press release this morning at 8:15 ET announcing that it had fired Craig Conway as president and CEO.
Sales for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is expected to rise sharply in 2004, but decline slightly in 2005, according to a year-end consensus forecast released late Tuesday by the industry #39;s largest trade group.
Washington area homeowners living in historic districts are rapidly taking advantage of substantial federal income tax write-offs under obscure easement trust plan.
WASHINGTON Federal regulators have cleared the way for Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams Company to buy paint brush and roller-maker Paint Sundry Brands Corporation.
PARIS The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development raised its 2004 growth outlook Tuesday for the world economy, forecasting further expansion in Europe and a robust upturn in Japan that would outpace the United States for the first time in
U.S. stocks were little changed on Tuesday as investors worried corporate profits would be hurt by rising oil prices, driven higher as Hurricane Ivan threatened to disrupt oil production.
Baer #39;s North American wealth management business employs 55 people and manages more than $4 billion in client assets. It is based in Manhattan and has additional offices in Los Angeles, Palm Beach and Montreal.
Australia #39;s biggest supermarket group, Woolworths Ltd, has won a fierce Aust. $1.33 billion ( $1 billion) battle for pubs chain ALH on Tuesday, beating out rival Coles Myer Ltd which has conceded defeat.
Internet search leader Google Inc. yesterday introduced Google Desktop Search, a free program that creates an index of the files on a user #39;s own computer.
Oil prices eased on Monday as speculative funds continued to take profits but a tight global supply picture stopped the selling from gaining much momentum.
PeopleSoft #39;s profit may drop quot;significantly quot; this year and may have trouble surviving on its own, according to testimony Monday by an Oracle executive.
Roy Disney, heading a dissident shareholder group at the Walt Disney Co., urged board members to accelerate the departure of chief executive Michael Eisner, who plans to resign in September 2006.
The organization will let fans help call the shots on an upcoming pay-per-view event.
Just when it appeared Michael D. Eisner, the chief of Disney, could begin enjoying his final years in charge, a lawsuit threatens to dredge up embarrassing details of his two-decade reign.
Enron Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ENRNQ.PK target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ENRNQ.PK</A>, desperate to meet profit targets, "parked" unwanted power generating barges at Merrill Lynch in a sham sale designed to be reversed, a prosecutor said on Tuesday in the first criminal trial of former executives at the fallen energy company.
The financial titans hope their co-branded cards win over better-heeled, prompt-paying consumers. It may not be so simple, however.
Earlier, SMFG said it offered the one-for-one share exchange ratio to UFJ Holdings as part of its bid to win the support of UFJ for its merger proposal over a rival offer from MTFG.
CHARLOTTE, NC Bank of America #39;s third-quarter profit meets Wall Street #39;s expectations with a continued boost in business from the FleetBoston Financial merger.
The Dow Jones industrial average lt;.DJI gt; rose 162.20 points, or 1.56 percent, to 10,590.22. The Standard amp; Poor #39;s 500 Index lt;.
Nowhere are the conflicts of interest for financial services conglomerates more potentially lucrative - and more obscure - than in the management of pension assets.
Ford Motor Company said today it was recalling about 474 000 Escape and Mazda Tribute sport utility vehicles (SUVs) globally because the accelerator cable may prevent the engine from returning to the idle position, which could increase stopping distance
ATA Holdings Corp., parent of ATA Airlines, the nation #39;s 10th-largest carrier, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization yesterday, becoming the third US airline operating under court protection.
British Airways top directors, including chief executive Rod Eddington, will be helping out at Heathrow airport today as the airline strives to avoid the flight cancellation chaos of the last few days.
There will be criticism over some aspects of Google #39;s highly publicized public stock offering, but it shouldn #39;t overshadow what the Internet search engine company managed to accomplish.
A QUARTER of a billion people in some of the worlds poorest and most populous countries in East Asia have been lifted out of extreme poverty by rapid economic growth over
No. 1 U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp. reported a 41 percent rise in quarterly profit on Tuesday, beating Wall Street forecasts, as demand soared for its combat aircraft and information technology services.
Too many house-rich Americans are borrowing money against their homes to play the stock market, brokerages regulator NASD warned on Wednesday.
Insurer and fund manager AMP has reported a better-than-expected profit for the first half on higher investment returns and improved margins after casting off its British operations.
news - research) did not open for trading Friday because a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee is meeting to review the small New York-based biotech #39;s experimental eye disease drug.
Time Warner Inc. is close to a deal with U.S. regulators in which the world's largest media group would pay about $750 million to settle allegations of accounting irregularities at its America Online division, The Washington Post reported on Tuesday.
Edward Zander always wanted to be in charge. After 25 years in high technology, including five years as a prominent second banana at Sun Microsystems, Zander got his wish. In January he became chief executive at Motorola, a fallen angel of mobile communications. It used to own the business. It doesn't anymore.
Bangladesh reports a 28 jump in exports in July, boosted by strong demand in Europe for clothing and other textiles.
Crude oil stockpiles in the US are at their lowest level since March, helping drive up the cost of a barrel of oil by almost $2.
Merck amp; Co.'s chairman and chief executive Raymond Gilmartin yesterday defended his firm's handling of earlier health warnings about Vioxx and said he was quot;stunned quot; when he learned two weeks ago that a Merck clinical trial had confirmed the drug could cause strokes and heart attacks.
Buoyed again by strong results at its financial-services arm, Ford swung to a profit of $266 million in the third quarter even though the loss at its worldwide automotive operations widened and its market share in the key US market fell by more than a
Consumer prices picked up momentum in September, especially hitting the pockets of people paying for medical care, education costs and filling up gas tanks.
New data showed US inflation in check, with consumer prices up a modest 0.1 percent in August, giving the Federal Reserve room go slow on boosting interest rates.
Lloyds TSB Group Plc, the UK #39;s fifth-largest bank by assets, said annual pretax profit may fall 23 percent, after earnings doubled last year on proceeds from the sale of its businesses in New Zealand and Brazil.
Crude near $53 a barrel level as Nigeria and Norway set strikes, bombings in Egypt, Paris. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Oil prices see-sawed Friday, getting closer to the $53 a barrel level, as labor strife in Nigeria
Health care products giant Johnson amp; Johnson #39;s $25.4 billion acquisition of Guidant Corp. could face a tough review from regulators because of their competition in the coronary stent market, analysts say.
US Treasurys retreated Monday, with a stabilizing oil market undercutting prices as well as speculation that higher energy costs will undermine the nation #39;s economic recovery.
Electronic Data Systems plans to cut 15,000 to 20,000 jobs over the next two years, as the struggling technology services giant tries to slash costs and regain its footing.
The Bank of England is set to keep interest rates on hold following the latest meeting of the its Monetary Policy Committee.
The U.K.'s National Health Service (NHS) has tapped IT researcher Gartner Inc. to provide market intelligence services as the health organization forges ahead with a mammoth, 5 billion ( $9.2 billion) project to upgrade its information technology infrastructure.
Costco Wholesale Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COST.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COST.O</A> reported higher-than-expected quarterly profit and a healthy rise in September sales on Thursday, sending its shares up 2 percent in pre-market trading.
Morgan Stanley, the second-biggest US securities firm, on Wednesday reported lower-than-expected third-quarter profit on lower fees from trading stocks and bonds.
The present policy of not allowing a foreign carrier to hold stake in domestic airlines has put a question mark on Virgin Atlantic chief Richard Branson #39;s plans to acquire equity in private Indian airline companies.
Editor #39;s Note: Published on page A1 of the Nov. 30, 2004 issue of the Philippine Daily Inquirer. BEATING most forecasts, the economy - as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP), the
Crude oil futures continued to climb Friday, reaching new record high as decline in the US inventory of heating oil and tight supplies still overshadowed theenergy markets.
Wanted: Brilliant economist. Must be politically savvy, trusted by Wall Street, a strong leader and consensus builder, cool in a crisis, able to calm world markets with a few words and likely to guide the economy into robust health in time for the 2008 presidential election.
The issue of drug advertising directly aimed at consumers is becoming political.
Britain and other European Union paymasters have renewed their opposition to EU Commission plans to increase the block #39;s spending in 2007-2013, Chancellor Gordon Brown says.
Alan Greenspan came to the home of the euro today and warned anxious Europeans to expect little relief from the relentless decline of the dollar against their currency.
HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--Hong Kong shares ended up Monday to close at their highest level in nearly 45 months, led by gains in property counters and blue-chip Hutchison Whampoa.
<p> </p><p> By Muklis Ali</p><p> JAKARTA (Reuters) - OPEC took the unprecedented step of urging the United States to tap its emergency crude reserves to bring down world oil prices.</p>
Bank of Ireland has announced that profits before tax were up 6 from 670m in the six months to the end of September last year to 713m this year.
Google has warned that the rapid revenue growth it experienced in the third quarter may not continue in the fourth quarter and beyond.
The Financial Times today won its action to strike out a record 230.5m libel damages claim from City brokers Collins Stewart that could have closed down the pink paper.
Delta Air Lines will cut up to 7,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its overall work force, during the next 18 months, company CEO Gerald Grinstein said Wednesday.
Office Depot Inc. on Tuesday warned of weaker-than-expected full-year profit because of the string of hurricanes in Florida and poor sales across North America and Europe, sending its stock down nearly 8 percent.
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN.A: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it set a two-for-one stock split and would buy back up to 10 percent of its shares, as the company #39;s cash levels
Peter Mandelson provoked fresh Labour in-fighting yesterday with an implied attack on Gordon Brown #39;s quot;exaggerated gloating quot; about the health of the British economy.
Asian shares were mostly lower on Tuesday, pulled down by technology stocks following worries about a sales forecast from bellwether Intel Corp. and unexpectedly flat industrial output in Japan.
U.S. health officials on Tuesday approved the importation of up to 4 million doses of influenza vaccine made by GlaxoSmithKline <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.L</A> <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.N</A>, bringing the U.S. total to 65 million vaccines for this flu season.
Radio One Inc. chief executive Alfred Liggins III agreed last night to buy a controlling stake in radio personality Tom Joyner's media company for $56 million, furthering his attempt to turn the radio company his mother began out of a trailer 24 years ago into a diversified media group aimed at the black community.
The House and Senate last night overwhelmingly voted to extend three tax cuts aimed at the middle class along with a bevy of business-tax breaks, sending President Bush a
Ever hear of Ed Owens? I doubt it. Owens is one of the more publicity-shy executives at Wellington Management Co., itself one of the most publicity-averse investment firms in Boston. That's one reason Owens is the city's best mutual fund manager you probably don't know.
Check on the valuation of a badly wounded stock, based on latest earnings.
Not everyone was complaining when the price of a barrel of oil flirted with the $50 mark on global markets earlier this summer. For Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, it meant more money to
The Food and Drug Administration remains on the defensive. The agency got grilled on Capitol Hill for the second day in a row about the health risks of several popular prescription drugs.
Lofty oil prices may make the road ahead a little steeper, but the economy is on track to emerge from a recent soft patch intact, private-sector economists at a weekend retreat agreed.
PeopleSoft said Thursday that it would begin meeting with investors to lobby for their rejection of Oracle #39;s hostile $8.8 billion acquisition offer.
MG ROVERS controversial directors pension trust is to be substantially scaled back as the company nears the final stages of a vital partnership that will give
* Sprint #39;s strong wireless Internet service and Nextel #39;s walkie- talkie feature popular among mobile professionals would be a competitive combination.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission voted 3-2 on Tuesday to adopt a rule that for the first time will require hedge fund advisers to register with the agency and submit to SEC examinations.
Mirant Corp. (MIRKQ.PK: Quote, Profile, Research) has named its chief financial officer to the additional role of chief restructuring officer, the bankrupt power producer said on Thursday.
L-3 Communications Corp., which supplies products used in aerospace and defense platforms, agreed to buy CAE Inc. #39;s Marine Controls division for about $225 million cash and the assumption of about $42.
J Sainsbury bowed to pressure from the City watchdog yesterday and admitted that interim profits were likely to plunge - the third time it has issued a profits warning in the past seven months.
Shares of Mylan Laboratories Inc. (MYL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) surged more than 10 percent on Thursday after billionaire investor Carl Icahn got federal regulatory approval to buy up 11.9 percent of ...
US internet giant Amazon.com is buying China's largest web retailer Joyo.com, in a deal worth $75m (41m).
news - research) will seek to buy up to a quarter of Russian oil giant Lukoil, Reuters reported Friday, citing an industry source familiar with the matter.
Nortel Networks shares fell Thursday after the troubled telecom equipment maker warned that its full-year growth in 2004 will likely trail the industry, rather than outperform its peers as the company has been predicting.
China #39;s Commerce Minister Bo Xilai ( ) urged the US and other countries to live up to World Trade Organization agreements and refrain from seeking limits on Chinese textile exports when global quotas expire next year.
Philip Green has never been afraid to redefine conventional wisdom in the worlds in which he operates. But his recrafting of what constitutes a dividend represents his most challenging thinking to date.
US retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc plans to open 15 new stores in China next year, reported China Daily on Wednesday. Joe Hatfield, president of Wal-Mart Asia, revealed the news at a press conference yesterday in Beijing.
As we watched television coverage of Hurricane Charley last weekend, my wife and I reminisced about a time nearly two decades ago when we lived in Florida and got the word to evacuate.
Delta reached a tentative agreement with its pilots' union Wednesday night on wage and benefit cuts, averting a threatened bankruptcy filing, at least for now.
The prospective winning bidder for redeveloping Fan Pier yesterday missed a deadline for a down payment and the owners of the South Boston land said they plan to talk to other potential buyers.
The fate of two local retail stores may not be known for months in the wake of the announcement Wednesday of the $11 billion merger of Kmart and Sears.
A fifth year of powerful economic growth in East Asia and the Pacific has driven the number of people living in poverty in the region to its lowest level ever, but the World Bank warned yesterday that oil prices could dampen the boom next year.
WASHINGTON: The deficit at the federal agency that rescues failed US corporate pensions more than doubled to $23.3 billion in fiscal year 2004, officials said on Monday, with analysts largely blaming bankrupt airlines.
U.S. Treasury debt yields held near seven-month lows on Tuesday after a soft reading on U.S. consumer sentiment added modestly to concerns about the economy.
The Moscow Arbitration Court on Monday upheld the tax authorities #39; demand that the embattled oil giant Yukos must pay nearly 1.34 billion US dollars in fines as part of a 4.1-billion-dollar claim for 2001.
European shares hit a fresh 10-week high on Friday as a positive report on Chinese steel demand boosted ore producers such as Anglo-American, while French utility Veolia rose after posting solid first-half earnings.
Within months of acquiring FleetBoston Financial Corp. , Bank of America Corp. handed out its sales playbook to Fleet employees in the branches to teach them how to sell.
Internal e-mails and other documents from Merck amp; Co. show the company fought for years to keep safety concerns from undermining the drug #39;s commercial prospects, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.
Shares of Cogent Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COGT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COGT.O</A> soared 50 percent in their market debut on Friday after the fingerprint identification company's initial public offering priced at the top end of its range.
Financial experts combed records Thursday at China Aviation Oil, the Singapore-listed jet fuel supplier that this week sought court protection from creditors after admitting crushing losses from speculative trading.
A final laboratory test has confirmed an Alberta dairy cow had mad cow disease, the second case Canada has found in its herd, an industry source briefed by veterinary officials said on Sunday.
People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars.
A new round has opened in the European Commission anti-trust battle against Microsoft as the judge hearing its appeal called for a closed meeting.
The leading specialty women's clothier trounces expectations and sees more opportunity in the future.
Britain's WPP Group Plc has offered to pay more than #36;1.25 billion for advertising firm Gray Global Group, the Wall Street Journal said on Thursday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.
If you #39;ve been expecting an income-tax refund but haven #39;t received it yet, there #39;s a way to check with the Internal Revenue Service.
Mitsubishi Motors North America Inc launched a television ad campaign on Monday to improve its brand image that has been tarnished by a series of recall-related scandals over the past year.
The Bush administration lobbied Chinese economic officials on Thursday to overhaul a currency regime that American manufacturers contend gives China a huge competitive advantage.
A leading index of the U.S. economy dipped in the latest week, and a continued lack of growth in the data shows no end in sight to the current slowdown, a report showed on Friday.
The economy in many areas of the United States grew at a slower pace in late July and August as household spending softened, the Federal Reserve said in a report on Wednesday.
Camera maker Eastman Kodak and IBM, the world #39;s biggest computer company, said Thursday that the two US companies had agreed to a deal in which IBM will manufacture digital image sensors for Kodak.
American International Group, the world #39;s largest insurance firm, yesterday agreed to pay $126m (67m) to settle allegations that the company helped clients to commit accounting fraud.
The Trix Rabbit and the Lucky Charms leprechaun are going on a whole-grain diet.
United Airlines #39; parent company said in a bankruptcy-court filing Thursday that it eked out a $6 million net profit last month during the middle of the busy summer travel season.
Oil prices rose on Friday as a sabotage attack on Iraqi oil infrastructure reignited concern about the reliability of crude exports from the country despite a peace deal to end an uprising in Najaf.
Howard Stern, one of the most popular US radio personalities, said Wednesday he will broadcast his show on Sirius Satellite Radio (SIRI) beginning in 2006, after being dropped earlier this year from several stations that objected to
The state #39;s securities commissioner says a settlement between securities regulators and two firms likely means $337,500 for Arkansas.
Incoming European Union trade chief Peter Mandelson said on Monday he was confident the EU would have a strong counter-case if the United States brought a claim to the World Trade Organization over aircraft subsidies.
America West Holdings Corp. (AWA.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday said it would not bid for assets of bankrupt carrier ATA Airlines, saying the value does not justify the cost.
General Motors Acceptance Corp., the finance arm of General Motors Corp. (GM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , may periodically sell up to $3 billion in adjustable-rate demand notes, according to a regulatory filing on Friday.
Insurer Cigna on Wednesday posted a nearly two-thirds lift in third quarter earnings, but also said 2005 earnings should fall from 2004 levels.
Rising interest rates could trigger a house price crash in the UK, the International Monetary Fund warned today. The Washington-based group said the
H R Block rival Jackson Hewitt waits for the tax season, and profits, to arrive.
The Carter Center and the Organization of American States said an audit of returns from Sunday #39;s recall vote won by President Hugo Chavez found no evidence of irregularities.
Oracle Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ORCL.O</A> on Friday won the backing of another key public pension fund in its $8.8-billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PSFT.O</A> as the 17-month takeover battle between the two California-based business software makers neared a key deadline.
We should all have such luck: Bobby Britton won $4 million playing the Massachusetts State Lottery and wants to get a second opinion on what to do.
American Express Co. said on Monday its quarterly earnings rose 14 percent, matching analysts #39; expectations, due to strength in the economy that spurred record card
Games maker and publisher Acclaim, famous for dino game Turok, has filed for bankruptcy in the US.
Carphone Warehouse today announced a 25 increase in the number of connections during its second quarter, with interim pre-tax profits expected to be at least 27m.
Complaints: A television commercial featuring a wild-driving youngster at the wheel angers auto-safety advocates. DETROIT - General Motors Corp.
Mayor Gavin Newsom made good on his promise to join locked-out union members on the picket line Tuesday after a group of San Francisco hotels rejected his proposed 90-day cooling off period, extending a bitter labor dispute that has left 4,000 workers
Citigroup Inc., the world #39;s biggest bank, named Sallie Krawcheck chief financial officer and head of strategy, making her the highest-ranking woman on Wall Street.
Toyota, General Motors and seven other automakers filed suit to block California's new greenhouse gas regulation, which was approved by the state in September.
The Canadian arm of a huge tobacco company has asked a Quebec court to stop a provincial lawsuit claiming $1.4 billion in unpaid taxes on smuggled cigarettes.
The satellite radio company gears up to clean up in the portable player market. Also: United States lays a clear line against internet gambling hellip;. Outsourcing continues without a hitch hellip;. and more.
OAO Yukos Oil Co., Russia #39;s second- largest oil producer, said it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the US and asked for an emergency court hearing to stop the sale of its main unit in four days.
When John P. Reilly told me to think retro, visions of Davy Crockett and coonskin caps danced in my head. I began to imagine a sleigh full of hula hoops and plenty of Silly Putty in this year's bundle of toys.
LOS ANGELES - Customer relationship management software maker Siebel Systems Inc. is moving to reinvent itself in a bid to revive its flagging fortunes and drive new growth.
PARIS Snecma, a state-run maker of airplane engines, and Sagem, a maker of mobile phones and defense electronics, said Friday that they had agreed to merge in a transaction that would create a company worth about 7.
WALL Street #39;s broad market indicators ended nearly flat today after an early rally attempt ran out of steam, but tech stocks held on for solid gains.
The country #39;s largest flight attendants union is calling for a national strike against four airlines now in bankruptcy.
Business-software maker Cognos will buy Swedish financial-reporting software company Frango for $52.2 million. Cognos says the acquisition will strengthen its portfolio of corporate performance
The march of information technology into the workplace has been greeted with a mix of awe and resistance. For all their promise of productivity gains, computers, business software, and telecommunications gear have disrupted processes at the core of a company's identity.
U.S. stock futures rose on Thursday, pointing to a higher market open, as oil prices fell toward $48 a barrel and Wall Street seemed encouraged that the Federal Reserve would not accelerate its pace of interest rate hikes.
The FBI #39;s Salt Lake City office said Friday that Utah #39;s high rate of mortgage fraud has become the focus of its campaign to combat a host of white-collar crimes committed against financial institutions.
Holiday shoppers, intent on finding bargains, descended on the Washington region's malls this morning, joining a nationwide shopping spree that has come to be known as Black Friday.
Australia #39;s S amp;P/ASX 200 Index fell for a third day. Origin Energy Ltd. declined after New Zealand #39;s Contact Energy Ltd.
Dutch retailer Ahold NV, recovering from a major accounting scandal, reported a lower-than-expected second-quarter net profit of euro32 million (US $38.
Fool contributor Tim Beyers finds that when it comes to stocks, it might pay to be Scrooge.
HSH Nordbank was pursuing legal proceedings against Barclays to recoup losses on investments, a spokesperson for the German state-owned bank said yesterday.
HONG KONG The Commerce Ministry in China plans to impose tariffs on some textile exports, a step that could avert a trade war with the United States and the European Union over a new influx of low-cost Chinese garments that had appeared likely to flood
Dr. Jerry Avorn brings convincing data and sharp analysis to ''Powerful Medicines, quot; his timely, challenging appraisal of health policy.
For many wine aficionados, the most important case in years is about to be opened. On Tuesday, the US Supreme Court will hear arguments from small wineries and state regulators
Freddie Mac <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FRE.N</A>, the second-largest U.S. home financing company which has endured a barrage of intense public scrutiny in over the past year, on Friday revised its 2003 net income down by $75 million to cover a reserve for legal expenses, according to its annual report.
The company's revenue and earnings are just two reasons to like this stock.
U.S. stocks were flat on Monday as investors took some profits after a three-day rally last week, with interest rates and a weakening dollar taking center stage now that the presidential election is over.
Anil Ambani resigns from the petrochemical unit of Indian giant Reliance, renewing rumours of a management feud with elder brother Mukesh.
With poker's popularity growing because of televised tournaments, retailers are betting that playing cards and chips will be among the must-have items during the holiday shopping season.
Oil prices jumped a dollar on Thursday after the U.S. government said crude stocks fell to a fresh five-month low last week and distillate fuel inventories barely grew ahead of winter.
Leaders of the Air Line Pilots Association said US Airways' plan to cut salaries and benefits of management was welcome news, but does not constitute a deal.
Oil prices eased on Monday after rebels in Nigeria withdrew a threat to target oil operations, but lingering concerns over stretched supplies ahead of winter kept prices close to #36;50.
A profit warning from Coca-Cola took the fizz out of leading Wall St shares and sent the main indices sharply lower. At the closing bell, the Dow Jones was down 86.
PeopleSoft Inc. rebuffed Oracle Corp. #39;s latest hostile takeover bid, vowing to fight the $9.2 billion offer even if a majority of shareholders supported it.
High-flying oil prices paused in their ascent on Thursday as the U.S. government considered whether to release crude from the U.S. petroleum reserve after Hurricane Ivan sliced into supplies.
Captain Chuck Anderson from the Salvation Army is spraying the kettles red, in preparation for their annual Christmas fundraiser. He says, quot;Last year we helped almost 1500 children and senior citizens and over 600 families.
which cost 130million and opened only 10 years ago - is to close. The fleet of Eurostar trains, which connect London with Paris
Cisco Systems Inc., the biggest maker of equipment that directs data over the Internet, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose 29 percent on stronger demand for its networking gear.
Stocks edged lower Wednesday as investors weighed rising oil prices against a pair of government reports that gave a mixed picture about the economy.
Stocks staged a modest rally Wednesday as Wall Street embraced President Bush #39;s reelection and cheered the absence of a prolonged legal fight for the White House.
Malaysia's AirAsia is leaning toward European aircraft maker Airbus for an order of up to 80 short-haul planes, a source close to the airline said on Monday, in what would be another blow to rival Boeing.
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said a group of bond holders refused to change the terms of their securities, adding to the headwinds
Investors following Oracle Corp. #39;s hostile takeover battle with PeopleSoft Inc. got plenty of information to digest this week, including bold predictions
Casual Male caters to a big clientele but has to overcome a hefty debt load.
Japanese shares fell at the start of a holiday-shortened week on Tuesday as brokers and banks declined on recent data indicating signs of an economic slowdown in some key areas, offsetting gains in some chip-related stocks.
Tyson Foods Inc <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TSN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">TSN.N</A>., the world's largest meat company, said on Thursday that high beef prices may have consumers shifting to pork and chicken, but its beef segment should do well later this year.
European insurance giant Axa has withdrawn its Aust. $3.4 billion ( $2.48 billion) offer for the 48.3 percent of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings it doesn #39;t own after independent directors
JM Smucker Co., the largest US maker of jellies and jams, sold its operations in Brazil to closely held Cargill Inc. The sale of Smucker do Brasil Ltda.
The Bush administration announced Thursday it would provide US refineries with limited quantities #39; #39; of crude oil from the nation #39;s emergency stockpile to help offset supply
G.E.'s sale may set off a trend as other multinational companies move from owning back-office units to outsourcing to independent companies.
The index-fund-pioneering firm Vanguard is making college more affordable - by lowering the fees it charges on the 529 plan it runs. Most states offer 529 plans, and you can often participate in the plan of a state other than the one where you live or where your young one will attend college. Thus, the fact that the Vanguard 529 College Savings Plan is sponsored by the state of Nevada shouldn't make you click out of this article. Keep reading.
The world's largest gold producer, Newmont Mining Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NEM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">NEM.N</A>, on Wednesday said higher gold prices drove up quarterly profit by 12.5 percent, even though it sold less of the precious metal.
International Business Machines Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IBM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">IBM.N</A> has settled for an undisclosed sum part of a potentially multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over its pension plan, a Wednesday court filing shows.
Shares of Elpida Memory Inc., a chipmaking joint venture between Japanese electronics giants Hitachi Ltd. and NEC Corp.
Asian investors took advantage of a pause in climbing oil prices on Thursday to buy beaten-down technology stocks, autos and other exporters, snapping a nine-session losing streak by Japan's key stock index.
Dubai Ports International (DPI), a leading world port operator, announced it had acquired the international terminal business conducted by CSX World Terminals (CSXWT) for 1.15 billion dollars.
Oil futures prices rose in Europe Thursday amid concerns about heating oil supplies at the beginning of the Northern Hemisphere winter.
The Federal Aviation Administration must improve oversight of air carriers and passengers who bring hazardous materials onto planes, according to a report
President Arroyo has asked her economic managers to lay the groundwork for the declaration of an unsustainable public deficit which will allow the national government
So when a consortium of investors led by the Sony Corporation of America announced that it had reached a deal in principle to acquire Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for nearly $5 billion, it came
Forget about IBM and all the other dinosaurs. But remember the investment lessons they offer.
The Vanguard Group, the second-biggest U.S. mutual fund firm, said on Thursday it has closed the $1.4 billion Vanguard International Explorer Fund to thwart speculative short-term investors and protect long-term shareholders.
The term quot;blog quot; has been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a US dictionary publisher. Merriam-Webster said quot;blog quot; headed the list of most looked-up terms on its site during the last twelve months.
IBM is claiming unofficial bragging rights as owner of the world #39;s fastest supercomputer. IBM says its still-unfinished quot;BlueGene System quot; can sustain speeds of 36 teraflops.
Trendsetter Martha Stewart reported to a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for a suspicious sale of stock, U.S. prison officials said.
The parent company of American Airlines said it must refinance or replace an $834 million credit facility or it might not be able to comply with one of the covenants of the loan, according to news reports Thursday.
Putin signs law restricting airtime and content in effort to curb his country #39;s alcohol intake. MOSCOW (Reuters) - A sweeping ban on beer advertising in Russia became law Tuesday in a move to curb the country #39;s
The announcement was called a breakthrough in the US Justice Department #39;s long investigation into price-fixing allegations in the semiconductor industry.
American courts came into direct conflict with Russia yesterday, after Russia insisted it would push on with plans to sell off the main chunk of stricken oil giant Yukos
Riding the tail of a shark, DreamWorks Animation Inc. arrives on Wall Street today in the most high-profile entertainment company initial public offering in years.
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed over one percent higher on Tuesday after positive U.S. retail sales data eased concern about demand in Japan's main export market and spurred buying of blue chips such as Sony Corp.
A new gold-backed security named streetTRACKS Gold Shares made a much-hyped debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, aimed a attracting the investment capital that helped lift the bullion price to a 16-year high
House of Fraser has posted narrower first-half losses on improved gross margins and announced a new partnership deal with Barclaycard to manage its customer account cards.
Delta Air Lines said Wednesday it has revised its 2003 annual report to include a new report by its independent auditor warning that bankruptcy is looming.
A union warns of "very serious problems over Christmas" if its members vote to strike in a row over pay.
Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical firm says it will also close a research facility in North Carolina in effort to reduce drug prices.
Crude oil futures rose to a record for a third day, reaching US $52.53 a barrel in New York, on concern US supplies may be insufficient to meet demand this winter.
When Internet-based companies, especially ones the size of Oracle and PeopleSoft, announce fundamental changes, responses are usually swift.
One of my favorite pastimes as the final ruling on expensing stock options came upon us has been to read the increasingly hysterical opinion pages of the San Jose Mercury News, the newspaper of record for Silicon Valley.
Microsoft will pay as much as $500 million as a part of settlement of the antitrust lawsuit that may be filed by rival software maker Novell, the company said Monday, within an attempt to end its antitrust fight.
MOSCOW The stakes are high in the much-publicized feud between the Kremlin and the Russian oil giant Yukos - so high that the outcome of that battle will shape how the country #39;s energy industry grows in 2005 and beyond.
SOFTBANK, Japan #39;s largest internet provider, has complained that its plan to offer a new mobile phone service could be thwarted by the government #39;s refusal to provide the necessary bandwidth.
The United Nations Conference on Trade amp; Development (UNCTAD) on Wednesday placed India among the top four Asian foreign direct investment (FDI) destinations and said it will get more foreign investment flows as the global economy rebounds
The dollar clung to most of the previous session's gains against the euro on Monday after a positive U.S. jobs report last week reinforced expectations for an interest rate rise this month.
White Plains, NY - Former Coca-Cola Company president Steven Heyer today was named the new chief executive of Starwood Hotels, effective Oct. 1. Heyer succeeds Starwood founder Barry
UK biotechnology company Cambridge Antibody Technology has announced a five-year alliance with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca. CAT said AstraZeneca will make an upfront equity investment in CAT worth 75
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--Australia #39;s WMC Resources Ltd. (WMC) on Thursday said it recently received a conditional takeover proposal from London-listed resource major Xstrata PLC (XTA.
MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India surprised the market on Tuesday by raising the overnight benchmark repo rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent, citing concerns about a rise in inflation in Asia #39;s fourth-largest economy.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is close to settling a class action lawsuit for $220 million stemming from allegations that it colluded with other brokerages to mislead Enron Corp.
quot;Over the river and through the woods quot; isn #39;t just a musical refrain as we enter the holiday season . It #39;s the real thing for most Americans, who are expected to hit the road in record numbers this year.
Warren Buffett, the world #39;s second-richest man, is targeting California workers #39; compensation insurance; betting recent reforms will make the ailing market more profitable.
The shift would in all probability save the company more than 10 million pounds a year. The jobs would range from front and back office functions, including call centre posts.
Embattled Russian oil group YUKOS (YUKO.RTS: Quote, Profile, Research) should hear later on Thursday whether a US bankruptcy court will attempt to hold up the
Bee Staff Writer. The University of California, negotiating on behalf of Enron Corp. investors, reached a $222.5 million settlement Friday with the Lehman Brothers brokerage firm over its part in the multibillion-dollar Enron debacle.
Two days after a PeopleSoft Inc. board member suggested the company may be willing to sell to Oracle Corp. for the right price, an Oracle director said his firm #39;s offer to buy its Pleasanton rival for $21 per share may not be final.
The US Supreme Court, as expected, let stand a ruling against Visa and MasterCard for anti-competitive practices on Monday, handing a victory to their arch-rival American Express.
The unusual strategy adopted by the Federal Reserve in the summer of 2003 for stoking the US economy without cutting interest rates was a clear success, researchers at the US central bank have concluded in a new study.
Nippon Steel Corp. has told Toyota, Honda and Nissan it wants to raise steel prices for the second time this year, the Asahi Shimbun reports.
The outside directors of Marsh McLennan <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> have talked to New York's attorney general about having its chief executive step aside amid a probe into its business practices, the Wall Street Journal said on Friday.
NEW DELHI: The UPA government on Wednesday hiked the foreign equity limit in domestic airlines from 40 per cent to 49 per cent, but maintained the ban on international airlines from buying equity in the Indian carriers, even indirectly.
East Kilbride-based dairy group Robert Wiseman is celebrating its second major milk contract after sealing a new deal with supermarket giant Tesco.
The departure Tuesday of Stephen Friedman, who left Wall Street to assume one of the top economic posts in the White House as director of the National Economic Council, will open a key economic policy position just as President Bush begins his ambitious push to overhaul Social Security and the tax code.
A federal bankruptcy judge has given United Airlines a 30-day quot;test period quot; to show it can cooperate with its unions on a restructuring plan, rejecting union calls to open the process up to rival proposals immediately because United has not
The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed yesterday to cut the supply of oil to world markets and defend higher prices in spite of concern about
Interstate Bakeries, the maker of Wonder Bread, Hostess Twinkies and other baked goods, denied conjecture that it would be filing for bankruptcy.
Cash America International Inc. (PWN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , one of the world #39;s largest pawn shop operators, on Wednesday said it would buy the pawn operating assets of Camco Inc.
Rebates are getting easier. Instead of making it as difficult as possible for a consumer to claim a rebate, some retailers are simplifying the process, figuring fewer hassles along the way will build customer loyalty and raise sales.
Cellphone users accustomed to using their phones to play computer games, listen to music, and take pictures now have something new to do with their wireless telephones: respond to magazine and outdoor advertisements.
Asian stocks rose in US trading. Sony Corp. gained after the world #39;s No. 2 consumer-electronics maker agreed to resolve a dispute over patents related to digital cameras.
For 18 months, Office Depot executives have delved into the minutiae of the retailer #39;s financial controls, scrutinizing how it accounts for the goods it buys and testing to see, for example, that daily sales match daily deposits.
Nationwide, the UK #39;s largest building society, yesterday warned that more than 40pc of Britons believe they face a retirement of financial hardship, while the Consumers
Banking giant UBS (UBSN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research) was cautious over prospects for the rest of the year after a seasonal lull in trading hurt its third-quarter
A discussion of Venezuela #39;s political crisis should not begin or end with a cautionary parable about Herbert Mathews, but his image is hard to shake.
Canada #39;s Goldcorp said Sunday it has reached an agreement in principal to buy Wheaton River Minerals in an all-stock deal valued at about $2 billion.
Fabric and craft retailer lowers its profit outlook for both the third quarter and full year. ATLANTA (Reuters) - Shares of fabric and craft retailer Jo-Ann Stores Inc.
If you think oil is expensive now, just imagine if Hurricane Ivan had swung west and come ashore at this bustling oil and gas port at the southernmost point of Louisiana.
Foreign investors may be allowed to bid for the key oil producing subsidiary of embattled Russian oil firm Yukos. Moscow authorities are forcing the sale of Yuganskneftegas, which accounts for 60 of the firm #39;s
Reynolds American reports a third-quarter profit of $339 million in its first earnings report since the combination of RJ Reynolds and the US operations of Brown and Williamson Tobacco.
After winning union acceptance of job cuts, Alitalia gave formal approval Monday to a four-year business plan aimed at saving the near-bankrupt Italian airline from collapse.
The European Commission said Tuesday that it has approved Oracle Corp. #39;s $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft Inc., removing the last antitrust obstacle to the hostile takeover attempt.
Sprint is close to an agreement to buy Nextel for more than $35 billion in a mostly stock deal, sources familiar with the situation said on Friday.
Lawyers leading a record-setting sex discrimination case against Wal-Mart Stores said on Tuesday they filed a lawsuit against Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , claiming the company kept women out of top ...
Pilots at Delta Air Lines overwhelmingly approved a new five-year contract today with $1 billion in annual concessions sought by the airline, which had threatened to file for bankruptcy if the pilots did not acquiesce.
Most of the signs attached to Brady's most recent quarter say "Don't Exit."
Zimbabwe's tobacco crop, one of the country's main exportable commodities, falls for the fourth year running.
When President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva visited China in May of 2004, he was like an innocent abroad. He naively thought the Chinese would welcome his attempts to form a strategic partnership between two of the worlds largest developing countries.
In response to the letter quot;Glad some still let bells ring quot; (People #39;s Forum, Dec. 8), it is true that Target is no longer letting Salvation Army bell ringers stand at the front of their stores.
News Corporation shareholders have approved the company #39;s decision to move its headquarters from Australia to United States. At a extraordinary meeting in Adelaide, more than 90 of shareholders voted to support
TiVo Inc., a maker of digital recorders for televisions, on Monday posted a wider third-quarter loss on an investment in subscription acquisition activities, but the company performed better than Wall Street expected.
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits rose last week. The Labor Department says claims, reflecting the impact of hurricanes in Florida, increased by a seasonally adjusted 14,000 to 350,000.
Business confidence in Germany, Europe #39;s largest economy, fell to its lowest level in more than a year in November as the euro #39;s climb to a record high against the dollar threatened exports and unemployment at a five-year high crimped consumer spending
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed down 0.17 percent on Tuesday as growing worries over the domestic economic outlook hit banks and insurers, offsetting gains in shipping firms and others with bright earnings prospects.
Northwest Airlines Corp. (NWAC.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said Chief Executive Richard Anderson is leaving the company to join a health care group, as the airline struggles
Employees at the institutional investing unit of brokerage Charles Schwab (SCH ) are anxiously awaiting an announcement from management that their division is to be sold to investment bank UBS (UBS ) for a reported $265 million.
Oil prices surged to new record highs on Monday near $50 for U.S. crude as Nigeria emerged as the latest focus for worries about supply security on world energy markets.
Intel, the world #39;s largest manufacturer of semiconductors used in personal computers and servers, reported third-quarter sales and earnings that were roughly in line with Wall Street #39;s diminished expectations.
The dollar edged up against the yen on Thursday as surprisingly limp machinery orders data for Japan helped investors to recoup earlier losses made on cautious remarks about U.S. growth by the Federal Reserve chief.
A judge ruled today that three British bankers can be extradited to the United States to face wire fraud charges related to off-balance sheet dealings with the Enron energy group.
Exporters led a fall in Asian shares on Monday as oil prices set new highs near #36;47 and data showing the U.S. trade deficit widened to a record raised fresh concern about the health of the world's largest economy.
Walt Disney Co. said Thursday that profit jumped 24 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter, driven by growth at its television networks, theme parks and consumer products businesses.
With a fall in oil prices easing inflation concerns, the Federal Reserve is expected to continue its easy-does-it approach to raising interest rates, boosting a key rate by a moderate quarter-point at its final meeting of the year today.
Calpers, the biggest US pension fund, on Thursday said it had tendered its 1.5 million shares of PeopleSoft Inc. (PSFT.O: Quote, Profile, Research) to Oracle Corp.
But exports to Europe safe after the Russian oil firm seals a barter deal with pipeline monopoly. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Yukos #39; crippling tax debts finally forced the Russian oil major to make a much-feared production cut Wednesday.
Australia #39;s Computershare has agreed to buy EquiServe of the United States for US $292 million ( $423 million), making it the largest US share registrar and driving its shares up by a third.
Robust research doesn't guarantee success, but Pedro Zuloaga insists it stacks your odds.
A sparsely populated western state best known for potatoes is becoming a magnet for tech entrepreneurs. The slow pace, absence of traffic and low-rise landscape has helped lure 800 tech companies to the state.
Verizon Communications Inc. said yesterday it will extend a powerful new fiber-optic network capable of delivering cable television to 1 million US homes and businesses by year's end, including more than 100,000 in suburban Boston.
AMR Corp., the owner of American Airlines, said Friday that it received a $850 million, revolving credit line, replacing a $834 million line that was set to expire next year.
Swiss drug maker Novartis Pharma AG said Monday that the Food and Drug Administration has again requested more information on the company #39;s Certican treatment, when used in combination with Neoral, to prevent heart and kidney transplant rejection episodes
Oracles 18-month hostile takeover battle for PeopleSoft came to an end on Friday evening with a single phone call. A PeopleSoft director, through an attorney, contacted Oracle with the lucky number: $26.50
Lehman Brothers analyst Blake Bath said in a research note earlier this week that SBC might reduce its workforce by 10,000 to 20,000 to bring its costs in line with those at other dominant local telephone companies, such as Verizon Communications Inc.
Computer Associates International Inc. said Monday it has revoked home security and office support benefits to former Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Kumar, who was indicted last week on
Target #39;s decision to ban The Salvation Army bell ringers from stores has sparked a backlash, according to news reports from around the country.
BRUSSELS Microsoft said Monday that it had reached legal settlements with two of its biggest adversaries in the software industry, Novell and the Computer and Communications Industry Association.
Penn National Gaming is buying Argosy Gaming, which operates Indiana #39;s largest riverboat casino, in a stock deal worth $2.2 billion that includes $805 million in long-term debt, the companies said yesterday.
OPEC members were divided yesterday on whether their output should be increased in a bid to boost global supply that might cause oil prices to drop.
Japan's Nikkei share average fell 0.36 percent at the opening on Wednesday as profit-taking pushed down recent gainers including Bridgestone Corp. after the market had risen in the previous four sessions.
Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. announced Wednesday its group net profit fell 43.1 percent in the fiscal first half from a year earlier to 171.7 billion yen, while merger partner UFJ
QANTAS yesterday shrugged off the exit of its major shareholder, with the stock buoyed by the prospect of more international alliances now that British Airways is off its share registry.
Google rose $14.97 to close at $187.40 per share, giving it a market value of $51.4 billion compared to $47.9 billion for Internet rival Yahoo.
About 3,000 shoppers were evacuated from a Toys quot;R quot; Us store in Times Square yesterday after pepper spray was set off inside, fire officials said.
Energy utility TXU Corp. on Monday more than quadrupled its quarterly dividend payment and raised its projected earnings for 2004 and 2005 after a companywide performance review.
The US trade deficit has exploded 19 to a record $55.8bn as oil costs drove imports higher, according to a latest figures.
It signalled this in no uncertain terms when oil prices fell below US $50 ( $83) mark on Monday. US light crude dipped to US $49 at one point before ending at US $49.
Kimberly-Clark Corp. said Monday it aims to cut costs by $400 million to $500 million over the next three years, and plans to boost its dividend by 12.5 percent and repurchase at least $1 billion in stock during 2005.
ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, received a subpoena from New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and said it #39;s cooperating with his insurance market probe.
China has agreed to step in and pay Russian rail fees to ensure that it continues to receive Yukos oil if the company is unable to cover the transport costs, officials at Russia #39;s rail transport monopoly said Wednesday.
A special committee of Hollinger International, which was instrumental in ousting Conrad Black as head of the Chicago-based newspaper company, filed its final report in an Illinois court yesterday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it plans to increase its store space by 8 percent in the fiscal year beginning in February, including 240 to
Although problems still hang over the company, Bristol-Myers is paving the way for recovery.
Boston Scientific Corp. could face tougher competition in markets for cardiac products if talks between two of its largest competitors lead to a merger, analysts and investors said.
Synopsys Inc., which makes software used in the design of microchips, on Wednesday reported fourth-quarter sales slumped 27 percent, triggering a loss for the period.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing biotechnology companies as part of a wider effort to ensure that companies don #39;t mislead investors
Maxim Pharmaceutical's Ceplene produces disappointing results.
The Longaberger Co. is reducing the size of a planned layoff to 784 employees, down from its July estimate of 970. The Newark-based basket maker said the jobs will end Sept.
Rival trans-Tasman airlines Air New Zealand and Qantas have far from abandoned their dreams of an alliance, despite it failing to clear yet another hurdle.
Shares of Sprint Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FON.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FON.N</A> rose 5.4 percent before the bell on Tuesday after the Wall Street Journal reported that Verizon Communications <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VZ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">VZ.N</A> has gained the backing of partner Vodafone Group <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VOD.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">VOD.L</A> to bid for Sprint.
Dow Jones amp; Company, which publishes vital business and financial news and information, announced that the Far Eastern Economic Review will change its format from a news weekly to a monthly magazine of issues and ideas, largely written by
Financial group Fortis has reported a bigger-than-expected rise in earnings and says it is growing more upbeat about 2004, with both its banking and insurance units posting strong gains.
Sears Canada Inc. has dismissed Mark Cohen as chairman and chief executive officer, citing quot;strategic differences quot; between him and the board of directors.
ALAN GREENSPAN, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, undercut lingering hopes of staging an operation to support the dollar at a meeting of bankers in Frankfurt yesterday
Pfizer Inc., the world #39;s biggest drugmaker, said Wednesday third-quarter earnings rose on higher sales of key medicines. The New York based company said it earned $3.
United Parcel Service, the US delivery company, is to take direct control of its core international express operations in China, paying US $100m to buy out its local partner, Hong Kong-listed Sinotrans.
President Vladimir Putin said Monday that Russia and Belarus have put a sharp dispute over natural gas deliveries behind them and that there are no obstacles to good relations.
A High Court judge on Wednesday approved a debt-for-equity survival plan developed by MyTravel, clearing the way for the troubled travel company to present the proposal to shareholders and creditors next month.
Prudential Equity Group raised its earnings estimates for Automatic Data Processing (nyse: ADP - news - people ) after the payroll and data processing services firm reported better-than-expected fiscal first-quarter results.
A US government auditor says the US Army should withhold 15 per cent of future payments to Halliburton for work in Iraq due to billing disputes - in a move that could cost the contractor tens of millions of dollars.
Northwest Airlines Corp. canceled controversial fees on tickets bought through some travel agents after the agents and fare distributors objected and rivals didn #39;t match the higher cost.
Blaming the complexity of the task, Nortel Networks Corp. is delaying the release of long-awaited financial results by another month, to late October, and may seek another delay of its annual meeting.
quot;We were wrong about Vioxx, but you can trust us on all those other meds, quot; the FDA seems to be saying. If you enjoy this article, you may also be interested in an article entitled #39;The FDA remains in state of denial about drug safety questions.
Safeway Inc. , the third-largest U.S. grocer, on Tuesday reported a lower quarterly profit as it grappled with lingering costs from a labor strike in California earlier this year.
Carbon dioxide emissions will be almost 40 higher by the end of the decade than they were in 1990 despite growing use of renewable energy, the International Energy Agency said yesterday.
Electronic Data Systems Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=EDS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">EDS.N</A>, one of the world's biggest computer services companies, is likely to cut up to 20,000 jobs over the next two years, the company's chief executive said on Thursday.
Turkish mobile operator Turkcell is going ahead with a network in Iran, despite a law giving Iranian MPs a veto over foreign investment.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--James Hardie Industries NV (JHX) said Monday it is willing to help the medical fund it established to pay victims of asbestos-related illnesses avert a liquidity crisis.
General Mills announced Monday that it is selling its stake in a European snack operation to PepsiCo for $750 million.
Defense stocks soared to 52-week highs Wednesday morning as George W. Bush was poised to make a speech accepting re-election, a situation promising continued spending on overseas warfare.
NYMEX crude kept close to record highs near #36;54 early on Tuesday as global oil supplies remained hounded by disruptions, magnifying concerns over U.S. heating oil stocks ahead of the winter, traders said.
Corus Group Plc, the UK #39;s biggest steelmaker, reported its first profit and revived plans to sell 500 million euros ( $608 million) of bonds to refinance debt after it benefited from higher steel prices and cost cuts.
Wall Street was expected edge higher at Tuesday's opening as the price of U.S. crude oil eased, with insurers firming after the head of Marsh McLennan Cos. Inc.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> resigned.
As the high-pressure holiday travel season rolls in, the transportation industry is anticipating some of the highest numbers seen in four years.
US bankruptcy judge agrees to consider airline #39;s motion to cancel pact, save $725 million a year. CHICAGO (Reuters) - A federal bankruptcy judge agreed Friday to consider a motion by United Airlines to cancel
More than 700 Wisconsin residents haven #39;t received federal tax refunds worth a total of more than $479,000 because the checks were returned to the Internal Revenue Service as undeliverable.
Union says pilots may retire en masse to get payments rather than ride out possible bankruptcy. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines Inc.
Gary L. Pilgrim and Harold J. Baxter, founders of a tech-based mutual fund that blazed and then fizzled in the 1990s, agreed yesterday to pay $160 million to settle
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--US private equity group Newbridge Capital Inc. (NBG.XX) said Wednesday it plans to expand Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality Group Ltd.
The decision comes on top of 12,500 job cuts that the bank initially said it would eliminate during the merger. The bank #39;s move drew fire from two Massachusetts
Oil prices perked up from 7-week lows on Friday on forecasts for colder-than-normal weather in the U.S. Northeast.
A former assistant treasurer at toppled energy giant Enron Corp. pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge Tuesday for his alleged role in making Enron #39;s financial picture appear rosier than it really was.
Italy's public accounts are in quot;serious quot; imbalance and corrective measures are needed to prevent the public deficit from skyrocketing above the European Union limit in the coming years, Bank of Italy governor Antonio Fazio said.
United States health titan Johnson and Johnson has reached a deal to acquire American heart device manufacturer Guidant, in a stock-and-cash deal valued at $23.9-billion, based on $76 per share, the companies said in a statement early on
The Italian Treasury has raised 7.5 billion euros ( $9.5 billion) from the sale of almost 20 percent of utility company Enel (ENEI.
The rise in retail sales was the best showing since March. Also, producer prices rose 0.1 percent in September.
Economy: With consumer confidence down and spending up, shoppers wrestle with #39;stop-and-go #39; mixed signals.
Plug Power Inc., a maker of on-site power generation systems for commercial and residential dwellings, on Tuesday said Tyco Electronics Power Systems Inc.
Non-energy income trusts are disappointing investors, with two more cutting or suspending their cash distributions to unitholders this week and causing the value of their units to plummet.
The REIT's commercial mortgage-backed securities may be tied to Rouse's prestigious mall portfolio.
Shares of drugmaker Merck amp; Co. Inc. (MRK.N: Quote, Profile, Research) traded 1.52 percent higher on volume of more than 61,000 shares in pre-market dealings on Friday, a day after
Former President Bill Clinton helped launch a new Internet search firm that claims better results for its engine than Google (nasdaq: GOOG - news - people ). The firm is called Accoona, from the Swahili phrase
Toyota Motor Corp., the world #39;s second- largest carmaker, had an unexpected drop in quarterly profit as investment earnings at its truck making unit fell and a stronger yen cut the value of overseas sales.
Oil and gas producer Kerr-McGee Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KMG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">KMG.N</A> on Wednesday reported a fall in quarterly profit, citing a writedown related to a pigment plant and higher environmental charges.
#39; #39;The Oprah Winfrey Show quot; was the best advertising an estimated $8 million could buy for the launch of the Pontiac G6 sedan.
Volkswagen workers staged a new round of brief stoppages early Monday, keeping up pressure on the automaker ahead of wage talks in which the company is sticking to a demand for a two-year pay freeze.
Orders for chip-equipment placed with North American manufacturers declined in August and could decline further in coming months, an industry trade group said late Thursday.
Russian oil giant Yukos is to ask a Moscow court for more time to pay its tax bill.
On Monday, the same day the California Senate passed a bill that would ban state agencies from contracting services out to companies that use overseas labor, opponents and proponents of offshore outsourcing clashed during a conference at Stanford University.
U.S. stocks rose on Wednesday lifted by a merger between retailers Kmart and Sears, better-than-expected earnings from Hewlett-Packard and data showing a slight rise in core inflation.
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. said Monday that its losses jumped for the first half of the fiscal year as the Japanese automaker struggled to recover from an auto-defect scandal that has sent sales plunging.
FOR THE first time, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo acknowledged yesterday that the country was in a fiscal crisis, a move meant to rally the public behind her tax reform and cost-cutting measures to avert an Argentina-like financial meltdown in the
Nearly three years after Enron Corp.'s dramatic collapse into bankruptcy, the first criminal trial against the disgraced energy company's former employees is set to kick off on Monday.
National Semiconductor Corp. said Monday it agreed to sell its imaging business, which makes chips used in small cameras and cell phones, to camera giant Eastman Kodak Co.
ATA Holdings, the bankrupt parent of ATA Airlines, took a key step Thursday toward salvaging more of its struggling operations.
Rite Aid Corp. (RAD.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the third-largest US drugstore chain, on Tuesday warned that if current sales trends continue its fiscal 2005 results would fall below expectations it gave in September.
Figuring out which way the winds are blowing in the chip sector just got harder. Recent news suggests the all-encompassing rally off the September lows has ended and the sector #39;s investors will have to be much more selective going forward.
The company will fight the order to reveal its software code to rivals. Also: Startup wants Google to feel outdated hellip;. Sony plasters Europe with Walkmans hellip;. and more.
America's factories saw orders for costly manufactured goods post the biggest gain in four months, a sign that the economy is emerging from an early summer funk.
Bee Staff Writer. Sean Harrigan, ousted from the board of the California Public Employees #39; Retirement System, is lobbying for a return to the powerful pension fund, but his campaign does
Colgate-Palmolive Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CL.N</A> on Monday issued its first formal profit warning in almost a decade, saying earnings will fall well short of Wall Street forecasts due to higher marketing spending, sending its shares down 11 percent to a four-year low.
Power company Progress Energy Inc. lowered its 2004 earnings outlook Friday because damage from Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Ivan limits the amount of tax credits the company can claim for its synthetic fuel production.
Dell Inc. said Thursday its third-quarter profit rose 25 percent from a year earlier as the No. 1 personal-computer maker boosted sales of its PCs, laptops and other gear by 18 percent.
Diversified manufacturer Honeywell International Inc. posted a rise in quarterly profit as strong demand for aerospace equipment and automobile components boosted revenues, the company said on Wednesday.
Millionaire executive Martha Stewart announced Wednesday that she decided to begin her prison sentence for lying about a stock trade as soon as possible.
The dollar hit an eight-month low against the euro on Tuesday, coming within a cent of a record low, and set its lowest level in eight years versus Swiss franc on concerns about the U.S. economy and current account gap.
As if Intel's profit bomb didn't put enough of a damper on the summer-ending long weekend, investors returning next week after Labor Day will be wary of a market offering as much pitfall as promise.
Stocks seesawed in afternoon trade Thursday, with blue chips struggling to maintain their gains while techs edged lower following warnings from Google.
they will have completed the easy part. The harder part, industry executives and analysts
Personal computer maker Gateway Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GTW.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GTW.N</A> on Thursday posted a net loss that narrowed from a year earlier and bettered its own forecast, helped by higher PC sales and lower costs.
Some people don #39;t think about federal income taxes until the first week of April. Others jump on them in late January, as soon as their W-2s show up in the mail.
A Delaware judge ruled yesterday that co-op owners at the Watergate East were within their rights when they voted this summer to reject the offer of a D.C. developer to purchase property as part of a plan to convert the Watergate Hotel into more luxury co-ops.
DaVita Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DVA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DVA.N</A> is close to an agreement to acquire the dialysis operations of Sweden's Gambro AB for about $3 billion in a deal that would create the No. 1 U.S. provider of dialysis services, a source familiar with the situation said on Monday.
Despite cautionary words from Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge last week about the impact of the rising dollar, Canadian gross domestic product likely grew at a healthy 3.5 clip in the third quarter due to strong consumer spending.
A sharp drop in oil prices gave Wall Street a modest relief rally yesterday, with stocks edging higher on news that oil production had soared during the month of September.
The price of gold rose to a 16-year high above $455 an ounce on Wednesday as investors piled into the hard asset amid widespread worries about the dropping U.S. dollar.
Automaker DaimlerChrysler AG said Friday it will book a charge of 400 million euro in the third quarter to cover the cost of recalls and past quality problems at Japanese truckmaker Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corp.
LSI Logic (LSI ) says based on customer reassessment of end demand for the second half of the year, it lowered the $435 million to $465 million third-quarter revenue guidance to $370 million to $400 million, and cut the breakeven to 3-cent third-quarter
GlaxoSmithKline agreed on Thursday to post the results of all clinical trials of its drugs, both positive and negative, on the Internet.
Fueled by the ongoing economic rally, businesses are boosting their contributions to 401(k) plans.
By Bloomberg News. Whole Foods Market Inc., the largest natural-foods grocer in the United States, said yesterday that fourth-quarter profit rose 27 percent as sales increased.
Bookseller Borders Group Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BGP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BGP.N</A> on Tuesday slashed its financial forecast, saying sales were weaker than expected due in part to hurricanes, and that profits during the key holiday season would miss Wall Street estimates.
Some large health insurers are feeling vindicated after Merck #39;s decision to withdraw its painkiller Vioxx from the market because long-term use raises the risk of heart attack or stroke.
One out of every four working American families earns wages so low they struggle to survive financially, according to a report due out today.
Theodore Forstmann, a pioneer in the leveraged buyout frenzy of the 1980s and 1990s, plans to leave the business in 2006, the New York Times said on Sunday.
The retailing company Kmart Holding Corp. has appointed Aylwin Lewis, formerly an executive at the restaurant operator Yum Brands Inc.
Japan's Nikkei share average was up 0.64 percent in mid-morning trade on Monday after a fall in the yen helped some exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp.
On Thursday, biotechnology companies Genentech Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. said US regulators have approved their drug Tarceva for treating the most common form of lung cancer.
Wal-Mart is reducing its forecast for same store sales for the month of August. It is blaming store closures caused by Hurricane Charley last week.
Software maker PeopleSoft is girding itself for a proxy battle as part of its 17-month takeover battle with Oracle, indicating it fears its shareholders are tempted to sell to its rival.
The dollar slumps to a new record low against the euro, breaching the $1.30 level on news of another large trade deficit.
news - research) is never boring! Monday night, the company announced that its phase III Genasense study in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) met its primary endpoint, which was tumor shrinkage.
The Royal Bank of Canada, the country #39;s biggest bank, said yesterday it suffered a 5 drop in third-quarter profit, displaying weakness in its US operations and citing tight interest-rate spreads and rising expenses.
WOOLWORTHS Ltd chief executive Mr Roger Corbett yesterday signalled a shift in the supermarket battlefront away from petrol discounting as the retail group tipped 10-15 per cent profit growth in 2004-2005.
British Airways announced Friday that it was increasing its fuel surcharge on both short-haul and long-haul flight tickets because of rising oil prices.
Shares in AstraZeneca Plc fell as much as 10 percent on Friday after regulators in the United States and Europe raised safety concerns about the Anglo-Swedish drug maker's anti-cholesterol treatment Crestor.
In a surprise move, PeopleSoft issued a press release this morning at 8:15 ET announcing that it had fired Craig Conway as president and CEO.
Sales for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is expected to rise sharply in 2004, but decline slightly in 2005, according to a year-end consensus forecast released late Tuesday by the industry #39;s largest trade group.
Washington area homeowners living in historic districts are rapidly taking advantage of substantial federal income tax write-offs under obscure easement trust plan.
WASHINGTON Federal regulators have cleared the way for Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams Company to buy paint brush and roller-maker Paint Sundry Brands Corporation.
PARIS The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development raised its 2004 growth outlook Tuesday for the world economy, forecasting further expansion in Europe and a robust upturn in Japan that would outpace the United States for the first time in
U.S. stocks were little changed on Tuesday as investors worried corporate profits would be hurt by rising oil prices, driven higher as Hurricane Ivan threatened to disrupt oil production.
Baer #39;s North American wealth management business employs 55 people and manages more than $4 billion in client assets. It is based in Manhattan and has additional offices in Los Angeles, Palm Beach and Montreal.
Australia #39;s biggest supermarket group, Woolworths Ltd, has won a fierce Aust. $1.33 billion ( $1 billion) battle for pubs chain ALH on Tuesday, beating out rival Coles Myer Ltd which has conceded defeat.
Internet search leader Google Inc. yesterday introduced Google Desktop Search, a free program that creates an index of the files on a user #39;s own computer.
Oil prices eased on Monday as speculative funds continued to take profits but a tight global supply picture stopped the selling from gaining much momentum.
PeopleSoft #39;s profit may drop quot;significantly quot; this year and may have trouble surviving on its own, according to testimony Monday by an Oracle executive.
Roy Disney, heading a dissident shareholder group at the Walt Disney Co., urged board members to accelerate the departure of chief executive Michael Eisner, who plans to resign in September 2006.
The organization will let fans help call the shots on an upcoming pay-per-view event.
Just when it appeared Michael D. Eisner, the chief of Disney, could begin enjoying his final years in charge, a lawsuit threatens to dredge up embarrassing details of his two-decade reign.
Enron Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ENRNQ.PK target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ENRNQ.PK</A>, desperate to meet profit targets, "parked" unwanted power generating barges at Merrill Lynch in a sham sale designed to be reversed, a prosecutor said on Tuesday in the first criminal trial of former executives at the fallen energy company.
The financial titans hope their co-branded cards win over better-heeled, prompt-paying consumers. It may not be so simple, however.
Earlier, SMFG said it offered the one-for-one share exchange ratio to UFJ Holdings as part of its bid to win the support of UFJ for its merger proposal over a rival offer from MTFG.
CHARLOTTE, NC Bank of America #39;s third-quarter profit meets Wall Street #39;s expectations with a continued boost in business from the FleetBoston Financial merger.
The Dow Jones industrial average lt;.DJI gt; rose 162.20 points, or 1.56 percent, to 10,590.22. The Standard amp; Poor #39;s 500 Index lt;.
Nowhere are the conflicts of interest for financial services conglomerates more potentially lucrative - and more obscure - than in the management of pension assets.
Ford Motor Company said today it was recalling about 474 000 Escape and Mazda Tribute sport utility vehicles (SUVs) globally because the accelerator cable may prevent the engine from returning to the idle position, which could increase stopping distance
ATA Holdings Corp., parent of ATA Airlines, the nation #39;s 10th-largest carrier, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization yesterday, becoming the third US airline operating under court protection.
British Airways top directors, including chief executive Rod Eddington, will be helping out at Heathrow airport today as the airline strives to avoid the flight cancellation chaos of the last few days.
There will be criticism over some aspects of Google #39;s highly publicized public stock offering, but it shouldn #39;t overshadow what the Internet search engine company managed to accomplish.
A QUARTER of a billion people in some of the worlds poorest and most populous countries in East Asia have been lifted out of extreme poverty by rapid economic growth over
No. 1 U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp. reported a 41 percent rise in quarterly profit on Tuesday, beating Wall Street forecasts, as demand soared for its combat aircraft and information technology services.
Too many house-rich Americans are borrowing money against their homes to play the stock market, brokerages regulator NASD warned on Wednesday.
Insurer and fund manager AMP has reported a better-than-expected profit for the first half on higher investment returns and improved margins after casting off its British operations.
news - research) did not open for trading Friday because a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee is meeting to review the small New York-based biotech #39;s experimental eye disease drug.
Time Warner Inc. is close to a deal with U.S. regulators in which the world's largest media group would pay about $750 million to settle allegations of accounting irregularities at its America Online division, The Washington Post reported on Tuesday.
Edward Zander always wanted to be in charge. After 25 years in high technology, including five years as a prominent second banana at Sun Microsystems, Zander got his wish. In January he became chief executive at Motorola, a fallen angel of mobile communications. It used to own the business. It doesn't anymore.
Bangladesh reports a 28 jump in exports in July, boosted by strong demand in Europe for clothing and other textiles.
Crude oil stockpiles in the US are at their lowest level since March, helping drive up the cost of a barrel of oil by almost $2.
Merck amp; Co.'s chairman and chief executive Raymond Gilmartin yesterday defended his firm's handling of earlier health warnings about Vioxx and said he was quot;stunned quot; when he learned two weeks ago that a Merck clinical trial had confirmed the drug could cause strokes and heart attacks.
Buoyed again by strong results at its financial-services arm, Ford swung to a profit of $266 million in the third quarter even though the loss at its worldwide automotive operations widened and its market share in the key US market fell by more than a
Consumer prices picked up momentum in September, especially hitting the pockets of people paying for medical care, education costs and filling up gas tanks.
New data showed US inflation in check, with consumer prices up a modest 0.1 percent in August, giving the Federal Reserve room go slow on boosting interest rates.
Lloyds TSB Group Plc, the UK #39;s fifth-largest bank by assets, said annual pretax profit may fall 23 percent, after earnings doubled last year on proceeds from the sale of its businesses in New Zealand and Brazil.
Crude near $53 a barrel level as Nigeria and Norway set strikes, bombings in Egypt, Paris. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Oil prices see-sawed Friday, getting closer to the $53 a barrel level, as labor strife in Nigeria
Health care products giant Johnson amp; Johnson #39;s $25.4 billion acquisition of Guidant Corp. could face a tough review from regulators because of their competition in the coronary stent market, analysts say.
US Treasurys retreated Monday, with a stabilizing oil market undercutting prices as well as speculation that higher energy costs will undermine the nation #39;s economic recovery.
Electronic Data Systems plans to cut 15,000 to 20,000 jobs over the next two years, as the struggling technology services giant tries to slash costs and regain its footing.
The Bank of England is set to keep interest rates on hold following the latest meeting of the its Monetary Policy Committee.
The U.K.'s National Health Service (NHS) has tapped IT researcher Gartner Inc. to provide market intelligence services as the health organization forges ahead with a mammoth, 5 billion ( $9.2 billion) project to upgrade its information technology infrastructure.
Costco Wholesale Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COST.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COST.O</A> reported higher-than-expected quarterly profit and a healthy rise in September sales on Thursday, sending its shares up 2 percent in pre-market trading.
Morgan Stanley, the second-biggest US securities firm, on Wednesday reported lower-than-expected third-quarter profit on lower fees from trading stocks and bonds.
The present policy of not allowing a foreign carrier to hold stake in domestic airlines has put a question mark on Virgin Atlantic chief Richard Branson #39;s plans to acquire equity in private Indian airline companies.
Editor #39;s Note: Published on page A1 of the Nov. 30, 2004 issue of the Philippine Daily Inquirer. BEATING most forecasts, the economy - as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP), the
Crude oil futures continued to climb Friday, reaching new record high as decline in the US inventory of heating oil and tight supplies still overshadowed theenergy markets.
Wanted: Brilliant economist. Must be politically savvy, trusted by Wall Street, a strong leader and consensus builder, cool in a crisis, able to calm world markets with a few words and likely to guide the economy into robust health in time for the 2008 presidential election.
The issue of drug advertising directly aimed at consumers is becoming political.
Britain and other European Union paymasters have renewed their opposition to EU Commission plans to increase the block #39;s spending in 2007-2013, Chancellor Gordon Brown says.
Alan Greenspan came to the home of the euro today and warned anxious Europeans to expect little relief from the relentless decline of the dollar against their currency.
HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--Hong Kong shares ended up Monday to close at their highest level in nearly 45 months, led by gains in property counters and blue-chip Hutchison Whampoa.
<p> </p><p> By Muklis Ali</p><p> JAKARTA (Reuters) - OPEC took the unprecedented step of urging the United States to tap its emergency crude reserves to bring down world oil prices.</p>
Bank of Ireland has announced that profits before tax were up 6 from 670m in the six months to the end of September last year to 713m this year.
Google has warned that the rapid revenue growth it experienced in the third quarter may not continue in the fourth quarter and beyond.
The Financial Times today won its action to strike out a record 230.5m libel damages claim from City brokers Collins Stewart that could have closed down the pink paper.
Delta Air Lines will cut up to 7,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its overall work force, during the next 18 months, company CEO Gerald Grinstein said Wednesday.
Office Depot Inc. on Tuesday warned of weaker-than-expected full-year profit because of the string of hurricanes in Florida and poor sales across North America and Europe, sending its stock down nearly 8 percent.
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN.A: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it set a two-for-one stock split and would buy back up to 10 percent of its shares, as the company #39;s cash levels
Peter Mandelson provoked fresh Labour in-fighting yesterday with an implied attack on Gordon Brown #39;s quot;exaggerated gloating quot; about the health of the British economy.
Asian shares were mostly lower on Tuesday, pulled down by technology stocks following worries about a sales forecast from bellwether Intel Corp. and unexpectedly flat industrial output in Japan.
U.S. health officials on Tuesday approved the importation of up to 4 million doses of influenza vaccine made by GlaxoSmithKline <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.L</A> <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.N</A>, bringing the U.S. total to 65 million vaccines for this flu season.
Radio One Inc. chief executive Alfred Liggins III agreed last night to buy a controlling stake in radio personality Tom Joyner's media company for $56 million, furthering his attempt to turn the radio company his mother began out of a trailer 24 years ago into a diversified media group aimed at the black community.
The House and Senate last night overwhelmingly voted to extend three tax cuts aimed at the middle class along with a bevy of business-tax breaks, sending President Bush a
Ever hear of Ed Owens? I doubt it. Owens is one of the more publicity-shy executives at Wellington Management Co., itself one of the most publicity-averse investment firms in Boston. That's one reason Owens is the city's best mutual fund manager you probably don't know.
Check on the valuation of a badly wounded stock, based on latest earnings.
Not everyone was complaining when the price of a barrel of oil flirted with the $50 mark on global markets earlier this summer. For Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, it meant more money to
The Food and Drug Administration remains on the defensive. The agency got grilled on Capitol Hill for the second day in a row about the health risks of several popular prescription drugs.
Lofty oil prices may make the road ahead a little steeper, but the economy is on track to emerge from a recent soft patch intact, private-sector economists at a weekend retreat agreed.
PeopleSoft said Thursday that it would begin meeting with investors to lobby for their rejection of Oracle #39;s hostile $8.8 billion acquisition offer.
MG ROVERS controversial directors pension trust is to be substantially scaled back as the company nears the final stages of a vital partnership that will give
* Sprint #39;s strong wireless Internet service and Nextel #39;s walkie- talkie feature popular among mobile professionals would be a competitive combination.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission voted 3-2 on Tuesday to adopt a rule that for the first time will require hedge fund advisers to register with the agency and submit to SEC examinations.
Mirant Corp. (MIRKQ.PK: Quote, Profile, Research) has named its chief financial officer to the additional role of chief restructuring officer, the bankrupt power producer said on Thursday.
L-3 Communications Corp., which supplies products used in aerospace and defense platforms, agreed to buy CAE Inc. #39;s Marine Controls division for about $225 million cash and the assumption of about $42.
J Sainsbury bowed to pressure from the City watchdog yesterday and admitted that interim profits were likely to plunge - the third time it has issued a profits warning in the past seven months.
Shares of Mylan Laboratories Inc. (MYL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) surged more than 10 percent on Thursday after billionaire investor Carl Icahn got federal regulatory approval to buy up 11.9 percent of ...
US internet giant Amazon.com is buying China's largest web retailer Joyo.com, in a deal worth $75m (41m).
news - research) will seek to buy up to a quarter of Russian oil giant Lukoil, Reuters reported Friday, citing an industry source familiar with the matter.
Nortel Networks shares fell Thursday after the troubled telecom equipment maker warned that its full-year growth in 2004 will likely trail the industry, rather than outperform its peers as the company has been predicting.
China #39;s Commerce Minister Bo Xilai ( ) urged the US and other countries to live up to World Trade Organization agreements and refrain from seeking limits on Chinese textile exports when global quotas expire next year.
Philip Green has never been afraid to redefine conventional wisdom in the worlds in which he operates. But his recrafting of what constitutes a dividend represents his most challenging thinking to date.
US retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc plans to open 15 new stores in China next year, reported China Daily on Wednesday. Joe Hatfield, president of Wal-Mart Asia, revealed the news at a press conference yesterday in Beijing.
As we watched television coverage of Hurricane Charley last weekend, my wife and I reminisced about a time nearly two decades ago when we lived in Florida and got the word to evacuate.
Delta reached a tentative agreement with its pilots' union Wednesday night on wage and benefit cuts, averting a threatened bankruptcy filing, at least for now.
The prospective winning bidder for redeveloping Fan Pier yesterday missed a deadline for a down payment and the owners of the South Boston land said they plan to talk to other potential buyers.
The fate of two local retail stores may not be known for months in the wake of the announcement Wednesday of the $11 billion merger of Kmart and Sears.
A fifth year of powerful economic growth in East Asia and the Pacific has driven the number of people living in poverty in the region to its lowest level ever, but the World Bank warned yesterday that oil prices could dampen the boom next year.
WASHINGTON: The deficit at the federal agency that rescues failed US corporate pensions more than doubled to $23.3 billion in fiscal year 2004, officials said on Monday, with analysts largely blaming bankrupt airlines.
U.S. Treasury debt yields held near seven-month lows on Tuesday after a soft reading on U.S. consumer sentiment added modestly to concerns about the economy.
The Moscow Arbitration Court on Monday upheld the tax authorities #39; demand that the embattled oil giant Yukos must pay nearly 1.34 billion US dollars in fines as part of a 4.1-billion-dollar claim for 2001.
European shares hit a fresh 10-week high on Friday as a positive report on Chinese steel demand boosted ore producers such as Anglo-American, while French utility Veolia rose after posting solid first-half earnings.
Within months of acquiring FleetBoston Financial Corp. , Bank of America Corp. handed out its sales playbook to Fleet employees in the branches to teach them how to sell.
Internal e-mails and other documents from Merck amp; Co. show the company fought for years to keep safety concerns from undermining the drug #39;s commercial prospects, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.
Shares of Cogent Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COGT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COGT.O</A> soared 50 percent in their market debut on Friday after the fingerprint identification company's initial public offering priced at the top end of its range.
Financial experts combed records Thursday at China Aviation Oil, the Singapore-listed jet fuel supplier that this week sought court protection from creditors after admitting crushing losses from speculative trading.
A final laboratory test has confirmed an Alberta dairy cow had mad cow disease, the second case Canada has found in its herd, an industry source briefed by veterinary officials said on Sunday.
People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars.
A new round has opened in the European Commission anti-trust battle against Microsoft as the judge hearing its appeal called for a closed meeting.
The leading specialty women's clothier trounces expectations and sees more opportunity in the future.
Britain's WPP Group Plc has offered to pay more than #36;1.25 billion for advertising firm Gray Global Group, the Wall Street Journal said on Thursday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.
If you #39;ve been expecting an income-tax refund but haven #39;t received it yet, there #39;s a way to check with the Internal Revenue Service.
Mitsubishi Motors North America Inc launched a television ad campaign on Monday to improve its brand image that has been tarnished by a series of recall-related scandals over the past year.
The Bush administration lobbied Chinese economic officials on Thursday to overhaul a currency regime that American manufacturers contend gives China a huge competitive advantage.
A leading index of the U.S. economy dipped in the latest week, and a continued lack of growth in the data shows no end in sight to the current slowdown, a report showed on Friday.
The economy in many areas of the United States grew at a slower pace in late July and August as household spending softened, the Federal Reserve said in a report on Wednesday.
Camera maker Eastman Kodak and IBM, the world #39;s biggest computer company, said Thursday that the two US companies had agreed to a deal in which IBM will manufacture digital image sensors for Kodak.
American International Group, the world #39;s largest insurance firm, yesterday agreed to pay $126m (67m) to settle allegations that the company helped clients to commit accounting fraud.
The Trix Rabbit and the Lucky Charms leprechaun are going on a whole-grain diet.
United Airlines #39; parent company said in a bankruptcy-court filing Thursday that it eked out a $6 million net profit last month during the middle of the busy summer travel season.
Oil prices rose on Friday as a sabotage attack on Iraqi oil infrastructure reignited concern about the reliability of crude exports from the country despite a peace deal to end an uprising in Najaf.
Howard Stern, one of the most popular US radio personalities, said Wednesday he will broadcast his show on Sirius Satellite Radio (SIRI) beginning in 2006, after being dropped earlier this year from several stations that objected to
The state #39;s securities commissioner says a settlement between securities regulators and two firms likely means $337,500 for Arkansas.
Incoming European Union trade chief Peter Mandelson said on Monday he was confident the EU would have a strong counter-case if the United States brought a claim to the World Trade Organization over aircraft subsidies.
America West Holdings Corp. (AWA.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday said it would not bid for assets of bankrupt carrier ATA Airlines, saying the value does not justify the cost.
General Motors Acceptance Corp., the finance arm of General Motors Corp. (GM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , may periodically sell up to $3 billion in adjustable-rate demand notes, according to a regulatory filing on Friday.
Insurer Cigna on Wednesday posted a nearly two-thirds lift in third quarter earnings, but also said 2005 earnings should fall from 2004 levels.
Rising interest rates could trigger a house price crash in the UK, the International Monetary Fund warned today. The Washington-based group said the
H R Block rival Jackson Hewitt waits for the tax season, and profits, to arrive.
The Carter Center and the Organization of American States said an audit of returns from Sunday #39;s recall vote won by President Hugo Chavez found no evidence of irregularities.
Oracle Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ORCL.O</A> on Friday won the backing of another key public pension fund in its $8.8-billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PSFT.O</A> as the 17-month takeover battle between the two California-based business software makers neared a key deadline.
We should all have such luck: Bobby Britton won $4 million playing the Massachusetts State Lottery and wants to get a second opinion on what to do.
American Express Co. said on Monday its quarterly earnings rose 14 percent, matching analysts #39; expectations, due to strength in the economy that spurred record card
Games maker and publisher Acclaim, famous for dino game Turok, has filed for bankruptcy in the US.
Carphone Warehouse today announced a 25 increase in the number of connections during its second quarter, with interim pre-tax profits expected to be at least 27m.
Complaints: A television commercial featuring a wild-driving youngster at the wheel angers auto-safety advocates. DETROIT - General Motors Corp.
Mayor Gavin Newsom made good on his promise to join locked-out union members on the picket line Tuesday after a group of San Francisco hotels rejected his proposed 90-day cooling off period, extending a bitter labor dispute that has left 4,000 workers
Citigroup Inc., the world #39;s biggest bank, named Sallie Krawcheck chief financial officer and head of strategy, making her the highest-ranking woman on Wall Street.
Toyota, General Motors and seven other automakers filed suit to block California's new greenhouse gas regulation, which was approved by the state in September.
The Canadian arm of a huge tobacco company has asked a Quebec court to stop a provincial lawsuit claiming $1.4 billion in unpaid taxes on smuggled cigarettes.
The satellite radio company gears up to clean up in the portable player market. Also: United States lays a clear line against internet gambling hellip;. Outsourcing continues without a hitch hellip;. and more.
OAO Yukos Oil Co., Russia #39;s second- largest oil producer, said it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the US and asked for an emergency court hearing to stop the sale of its main unit in four days.
When John P. Reilly told me to think retro, visions of Davy Crockett and coonskin caps danced in my head. I began to imagine a sleigh full of hula hoops and plenty of Silly Putty in this year's bundle of toys.
LOS ANGELES - Customer relationship management software maker Siebel Systems Inc. is moving to reinvent itself in a bid to revive its flagging fortunes and drive new growth.
PARIS Snecma, a state-run maker of airplane engines, and Sagem, a maker of mobile phones and defense electronics, said Friday that they had agreed to merge in a transaction that would create a company worth about 7.
WALL Street #39;s broad market indicators ended nearly flat today after an early rally attempt ran out of steam, but tech stocks held on for solid gains.
The country #39;s largest flight attendants union is calling for a national strike against four airlines now in bankruptcy.
Business-software maker Cognos will buy Swedish financial-reporting software company Frango for $52.2 million. Cognos says the acquisition will strengthen its portfolio of corporate performance
The march of information technology into the workplace has been greeted with a mix of awe and resistance. For all their promise of productivity gains, computers, business software, and telecommunications gear have disrupted processes at the core of a company's identity.
U.S. stock futures rose on Thursday, pointing to a higher market open, as oil prices fell toward $48 a barrel and Wall Street seemed encouraged that the Federal Reserve would not accelerate its pace of interest rate hikes.
The FBI #39;s Salt Lake City office said Friday that Utah #39;s high rate of mortgage fraud has become the focus of its campaign to combat a host of white-collar crimes committed against financial institutions.
Holiday shoppers, intent on finding bargains, descended on the Washington region's malls this morning, joining a nationwide shopping spree that has come to be known as Black Friday.
Australia #39;s S amp;P/ASX 200 Index fell for a third day. Origin Energy Ltd. declined after New Zealand #39;s Contact Energy Ltd.
Dutch retailer Ahold NV, recovering from a major accounting scandal, reported a lower-than-expected second-quarter net profit of euro32 million (US $38.
Fool contributor Tim Beyers finds that when it comes to stocks, it might pay to be Scrooge.
HSH Nordbank was pursuing legal proceedings against Barclays to recoup losses on investments, a spokesperson for the German state-owned bank said yesterday.
HONG KONG The Commerce Ministry in China plans to impose tariffs on some textile exports, a step that could avert a trade war with the United States and the European Union over a new influx of low-cost Chinese garments that had appeared likely to flood
Dr. Jerry Avorn brings convincing data and sharp analysis to ''Powerful Medicines, quot; his timely, challenging appraisal of health policy.
For many wine aficionados, the most important case in years is about to be opened. On Tuesday, the US Supreme Court will hear arguments from small wineries and state regulators
Freddie Mac <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FRE.N</A>, the second-largest U.S. home financing company which has endured a barrage of intense public scrutiny in over the past year, on Friday revised its 2003 net income down by $75 million to cover a reserve for legal expenses, according to its annual report.
The company's revenue and earnings are just two reasons to like this stock.
U.S. stocks were flat on Monday as investors took some profits after a three-day rally last week, with interest rates and a weakening dollar taking center stage now that the presidential election is over.
Anil Ambani resigns from the petrochemical unit of Indian giant Reliance, renewing rumours of a management feud with elder brother Mukesh.
With poker's popularity growing because of televised tournaments, retailers are betting that playing cards and chips will be among the must-have items during the holiday shopping season.
Oil prices jumped a dollar on Thursday after the U.S. government said crude stocks fell to a fresh five-month low last week and distillate fuel inventories barely grew ahead of winter.
Leaders of the Air Line Pilots Association said US Airways' plan to cut salaries and benefits of management was welcome news, but does not constitute a deal.
Oil prices eased on Monday after rebels in Nigeria withdrew a threat to target oil operations, but lingering concerns over stretched supplies ahead of winter kept prices close to #36;50.
A profit warning from Coca-Cola took the fizz out of leading Wall St shares and sent the main indices sharply lower. At the closing bell, the Dow Jones was down 86.
PeopleSoft Inc. rebuffed Oracle Corp. #39;s latest hostile takeover bid, vowing to fight the $9.2 billion offer even if a majority of shareholders supported it.
High-flying oil prices paused in their ascent on Thursday as the U.S. government considered whether to release crude from the U.S. petroleum reserve after Hurricane Ivan sliced into supplies.
Captain Chuck Anderson from the Salvation Army is spraying the kettles red, in preparation for their annual Christmas fundraiser. He says, quot;Last year we helped almost 1500 children and senior citizens and over 600 families.
which cost 130million and opened only 10 years ago - is to close. The fleet of Eurostar trains, which connect London with Paris
Cisco Systems Inc., the biggest maker of equipment that directs data over the Internet, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose 29 percent on stronger demand for its networking gear.
Stocks edged lower Wednesday as investors weighed rising oil prices against a pair of government reports that gave a mixed picture about the economy.
Stocks staged a modest rally Wednesday as Wall Street embraced President Bush #39;s reelection and cheered the absence of a prolonged legal fight for the White House.
Malaysia's AirAsia is leaning toward European aircraft maker Airbus for an order of up to 80 short-haul planes, a source close to the airline said on Monday, in what would be another blow to rival Boeing.
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said a group of bond holders refused to change the terms of their securities, adding to the headwinds
Investors following Oracle Corp. #39;s hostile takeover battle with PeopleSoft Inc. got plenty of information to digest this week, including bold predictions
Casual Male caters to a big clientele but has to overcome a hefty debt load.
Japanese shares fell at the start of a holiday-shortened week on Tuesday as brokers and banks declined on recent data indicating signs of an economic slowdown in some key areas, offsetting gains in some chip-related stocks.
Tyson Foods Inc <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TSN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">TSN.N</A>., the world's largest meat company, said on Thursday that high beef prices may have consumers shifting to pork and chicken, but its beef segment should do well later this year.
European insurance giant Axa has withdrawn its Aust. $3.4 billion ( $2.48 billion) offer for the 48.3 percent of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings it doesn #39;t own after independent directors
JM Smucker Co., the largest US maker of jellies and jams, sold its operations in Brazil to closely held Cargill Inc. The sale of Smucker do Brasil Ltda.
The Bush administration announced Thursday it would provide US refineries with limited quantities #39; #39; of crude oil from the nation #39;s emergency stockpile to help offset supply
G.E.'s sale may set off a trend as other multinational companies move from owning back-office units to outsourcing to independent companies.
The index-fund-pioneering firm Vanguard is making college more affordable - by lowering the fees it charges on the 529 plan it runs. Most states offer 529 plans, and you can often participate in the plan of a state other than the one where you live or where your young one will attend college. Thus, the fact that the Vanguard 529 College Savings Plan is sponsored by the state of Nevada shouldn't make you click out of this article. Keep reading.
The world's largest gold producer, Newmont Mining Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NEM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">NEM.N</A>, on Wednesday said higher gold prices drove up quarterly profit by 12.5 percent, even though it sold less of the precious metal.
International Business Machines Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IBM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">IBM.N</A> has settled for an undisclosed sum part of a potentially multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over its pension plan, a Wednesday court filing shows.
Shares of Elpida Memory Inc., a chipmaking joint venture between Japanese electronics giants Hitachi Ltd. and NEC Corp.
Asian investors took advantage of a pause in climbing oil prices on Thursday to buy beaten-down technology stocks, autos and other exporters, snapping a nine-session losing streak by Japan's key stock index.
Dubai Ports International (DPI), a leading world port operator, announced it had acquired the international terminal business conducted by CSX World Terminals (CSXWT) for 1.15 billion dollars.
Oil futures prices rose in Europe Thursday amid concerns about heating oil supplies at the beginning of the Northern Hemisphere winter.
The Federal Aviation Administration must improve oversight of air carriers and passengers who bring hazardous materials onto planes, according to a report
President Arroyo has asked her economic managers to lay the groundwork for the declaration of an unsustainable public deficit which will allow the national government
So when a consortium of investors led by the Sony Corporation of America announced that it had reached a deal in principle to acquire Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for nearly $5 billion, it came
Forget about IBM and all the other dinosaurs. But remember the investment lessons they offer.
The Vanguard Group, the second-biggest U.S. mutual fund firm, said on Thursday it has closed the $1.4 billion Vanguard International Explorer Fund to thwart speculative short-term investors and protect long-term shareholders.
The term quot;blog quot; has been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a US dictionary publisher. Merriam-Webster said quot;blog quot; headed the list of most looked-up terms on its site during the last twelve months.
IBM is claiming unofficial bragging rights as owner of the world #39;s fastest supercomputer. IBM says its still-unfinished quot;BlueGene System quot; can sustain speeds of 36 teraflops.
Trendsetter Martha Stewart reported to a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for a suspicious sale of stock, U.S. prison officials said.
The parent company of American Airlines said it must refinance or replace an $834 million credit facility or it might not be able to comply with one of the covenants of the loan, according to news reports Thursday.
Putin signs law restricting airtime and content in effort to curb his country #39;s alcohol intake. MOSCOW (Reuters) - A sweeping ban on beer advertising in Russia became law Tuesday in a move to curb the country #39;s
The announcement was called a breakthrough in the US Justice Department #39;s long investigation into price-fixing allegations in the semiconductor industry.
American courts came into direct conflict with Russia yesterday, after Russia insisted it would push on with plans to sell off the main chunk of stricken oil giant Yukos
Riding the tail of a shark, DreamWorks Animation Inc. arrives on Wall Street today in the most high-profile entertainment company initial public offering in years.
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed over one percent higher on Tuesday after positive U.S. retail sales data eased concern about demand in Japan's main export market and spurred buying of blue chips such as Sony Corp.
A new gold-backed security named streetTRACKS Gold Shares made a much-hyped debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, aimed a attracting the investment capital that helped lift the bullion price to a 16-year high
House of Fraser has posted narrower first-half losses on improved gross margins and announced a new partnership deal with Barclaycard to manage its customer account cards.
Delta Air Lines said Wednesday it has revised its 2003 annual report to include a new report by its independent auditor warning that bankruptcy is looming.
A union warns of "very serious problems over Christmas" if its members vote to strike in a row over pay.
Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical firm says it will also close a research facility in North Carolina in effort to reduce drug prices.
Crude oil futures rose to a record for a third day, reaching US $52.53 a barrel in New York, on concern US supplies may be insufficient to meet demand this winter.
When Internet-based companies, especially ones the size of Oracle and PeopleSoft, announce fundamental changes, responses are usually swift.
One of my favorite pastimes as the final ruling on expensing stock options came upon us has been to read the increasingly hysterical opinion pages of the San Jose Mercury News, the newspaper of record for Silicon Valley.
Microsoft will pay as much as $500 million as a part of settlement of the antitrust lawsuit that may be filed by rival software maker Novell, the company said Monday, within an attempt to end its antitrust fight.
MOSCOW The stakes are high in the much-publicized feud between the Kremlin and the Russian oil giant Yukos - so high that the outcome of that battle will shape how the country #39;s energy industry grows in 2005 and beyond.
SOFTBANK, Japan #39;s largest internet provider, has complained that its plan to offer a new mobile phone service could be thwarted by the government #39;s refusal to provide the necessary bandwidth.
The United Nations Conference on Trade amp; Development (UNCTAD) on Wednesday placed India among the top four Asian foreign direct investment (FDI) destinations and said it will get more foreign investment flows as the global economy rebounds
The dollar clung to most of the previous session's gains against the euro on Monday after a positive U.S. jobs report last week reinforced expectations for an interest rate rise this month.
White Plains, NY - Former Coca-Cola Company president Steven Heyer today was named the new chief executive of Starwood Hotels, effective Oct. 1. Heyer succeeds Starwood founder Barry
UK biotechnology company Cambridge Antibody Technology has announced a five-year alliance with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca. CAT said AstraZeneca will make an upfront equity investment in CAT worth 75
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--Australia #39;s WMC Resources Ltd. (WMC) on Thursday said it recently received a conditional takeover proposal from London-listed resource major Xstrata PLC (XTA.
MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India surprised the market on Tuesday by raising the overnight benchmark repo rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent, citing concerns about a rise in inflation in Asia #39;s fourth-largest economy.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is close to settling a class action lawsuit for $220 million stemming from allegations that it colluded with other brokerages to mislead Enron Corp.
quot;Over the river and through the woods quot; isn #39;t just a musical refrain as we enter the holiday season . It #39;s the real thing for most Americans, who are expected to hit the road in record numbers this year.
Warren Buffett, the world #39;s second-richest man, is targeting California workers #39; compensation insurance; betting recent reforms will make the ailing market more profitable.
The shift would in all probability save the company more than 10 million pounds a year. The jobs would range from front and back office functions, including call centre posts.
Embattled Russian oil group YUKOS (YUKO.RTS: Quote, Profile, Research) should hear later on Thursday whether a US bankruptcy court will attempt to hold up the
Bee Staff Writer. The University of California, negotiating on behalf of Enron Corp. investors, reached a $222.5 million settlement Friday with the Lehman Brothers brokerage firm over its part in the multibillion-dollar Enron debacle.
Two days after a PeopleSoft Inc. board member suggested the company may be willing to sell to Oracle Corp. for the right price, an Oracle director said his firm #39;s offer to buy its Pleasanton rival for $21 per share may not be final.
The US Supreme Court, as expected, let stand a ruling against Visa and MasterCard for anti-competitive practices on Monday, handing a victory to their arch-rival American Express.
The unusual strategy adopted by the Federal Reserve in the summer of 2003 for stoking the US economy without cutting interest rates was a clear success, researchers at the US central bank have concluded in a new study.
Nippon Steel Corp. has told Toyota, Honda and Nissan it wants to raise steel prices for the second time this year, the Asahi Shimbun reports.
The outside directors of Marsh McLennan <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> have talked to New York's attorney general about having its chief executive step aside amid a probe into its business practices, the Wall Street Journal said on Friday.
NEW DELHI: The UPA government on Wednesday hiked the foreign equity limit in domestic airlines from 40 per cent to 49 per cent, but maintained the ban on international airlines from buying equity in the Indian carriers, even indirectly.
East Kilbride-based dairy group Robert Wiseman is celebrating its second major milk contract after sealing a new deal with supermarket giant Tesco.
The departure Tuesday of Stephen Friedman, who left Wall Street to assume one of the top economic posts in the White House as director of the National Economic Council, will open a key economic policy position just as President Bush begins his ambitious push to overhaul Social Security and the tax code.
A federal bankruptcy judge has given United Airlines a 30-day quot;test period quot; to show it can cooperate with its unions on a restructuring plan, rejecting union calls to open the process up to rival proposals immediately because United has not
The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed yesterday to cut the supply of oil to world markets and defend higher prices in spite of concern about
Interstate Bakeries, the maker of Wonder Bread, Hostess Twinkies and other baked goods, denied conjecture that it would be filing for bankruptcy.
Cash America International Inc. (PWN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , one of the world #39;s largest pawn shop operators, on Wednesday said it would buy the pawn operating assets of Camco Inc.
Rebates are getting easier. Instead of making it as difficult as possible for a consumer to claim a rebate, some retailers are simplifying the process, figuring fewer hassles along the way will build customer loyalty and raise sales.
Cellphone users accustomed to using their phones to play computer games, listen to music, and take pictures now have something new to do with their wireless telephones: respond to magazine and outdoor advertisements.
Asian stocks rose in US trading. Sony Corp. gained after the world #39;s No. 2 consumer-electronics maker agreed to resolve a dispute over patents related to digital cameras.
For 18 months, Office Depot executives have delved into the minutiae of the retailer #39;s financial controls, scrutinizing how it accounts for the goods it buys and testing to see, for example, that daily sales match daily deposits.
Nationwide, the UK #39;s largest building society, yesterday warned that more than 40pc of Britons believe they face a retirement of financial hardship, while the Consumers
Banking giant UBS (UBSN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research) was cautious over prospects for the rest of the year after a seasonal lull in trading hurt its third-quarter
A discussion of Venezuela #39;s political crisis should not begin or end with a cautionary parable about Herbert Mathews, but his image is hard to shake.
Canada #39;s Goldcorp said Sunday it has reached an agreement in principal to buy Wheaton River Minerals in an all-stock deal valued at about $2 billion.
Fabric and craft retailer lowers its profit outlook for both the third quarter and full year. ATLANTA (Reuters) - Shares of fabric and craft retailer Jo-Ann Stores Inc.
If you think oil is expensive now, just imagine if Hurricane Ivan had swung west and come ashore at this bustling oil and gas port at the southernmost point of Louisiana.
Foreign investors may be allowed to bid for the key oil producing subsidiary of embattled Russian oil firm Yukos. Moscow authorities are forcing the sale of Yuganskneftegas, which accounts for 60 of the firm #39;s
Reynolds American reports a third-quarter profit of $339 million in its first earnings report since the combination of RJ Reynolds and the US operations of Brown and Williamson Tobacco.
After winning union acceptance of job cuts, Alitalia gave formal approval Monday to a four-year business plan aimed at saving the near-bankrupt Italian airline from collapse.
The European Commission said Tuesday that it has approved Oracle Corp. #39;s $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft Inc., removing the last antitrust obstacle to the hostile takeover attempt.
Sprint is close to an agreement to buy Nextel for more than $35 billion in a mostly stock deal, sources familiar with the situation said on Friday.
Lawyers leading a record-setting sex discrimination case against Wal-Mart Stores said on Tuesday they filed a lawsuit against Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , claiming the company kept women out of top ...
Pilots at Delta Air Lines overwhelmingly approved a new five-year contract today with $1 billion in annual concessions sought by the airline, which had threatened to file for bankruptcy if the pilots did not acquiesce.
Most of the signs attached to Brady's most recent quarter say "Don't Exit."
Zimbabwe's tobacco crop, one of the country's main exportable commodities, falls for the fourth year running.
When President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva visited China in May of 2004, he was like an innocent abroad. He naively thought the Chinese would welcome his attempts to form a strategic partnership between two of the worlds largest developing countries.
In response to the letter quot;Glad some still let bells ring quot; (People #39;s Forum, Dec. 8), it is true that Target is no longer letting Salvation Army bell ringers stand at the front of their stores.
News Corporation shareholders have approved the company #39;s decision to move its headquarters from Australia to United States. At a extraordinary meeting in Adelaide, more than 90 of shareholders voted to support
TiVo Inc., a maker of digital recorders for televisions, on Monday posted a wider third-quarter loss on an investment in subscription acquisition activities, but the company performed better than Wall Street expected.
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits rose last week. The Labor Department says claims, reflecting the impact of hurricanes in Florida, increased by a seasonally adjusted 14,000 to 350,000.
Business confidence in Germany, Europe #39;s largest economy, fell to its lowest level in more than a year in November as the euro #39;s climb to a record high against the dollar threatened exports and unemployment at a five-year high crimped consumer spending
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed down 0.17 percent on Tuesday as growing worries over the domestic economic outlook hit banks and insurers, offsetting gains in shipping firms and others with bright earnings prospects.
Northwest Airlines Corp. (NWAC.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said Chief Executive Richard Anderson is leaving the company to join a health care group, as the airline struggles
Employees at the institutional investing unit of brokerage Charles Schwab (SCH ) are anxiously awaiting an announcement from management that their division is to be sold to investment bank UBS (UBS ) for a reported $265 million.
