Peter Mandelson provoked fresh Labour in-fighting yesterday with an implied attack on Gordon Brown #39;s quot;exaggerated gloating quot; about the health of the British economy.
Asian shares were mostly lower on Tuesday, pulled down by technology stocks following worries about a sales forecast from bellwether Intel Corp. and unexpectedly flat industrial output in Japan.
U.S. health officials on Tuesday approved the importation of up to 4 million doses of influenza vaccine made by GlaxoSmithKline <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.L</A> <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GSK.N</A>, bringing the U.S. total to 65 million vaccines for this flu season.
Radio One Inc. chief executive Alfred Liggins III agreed last night to buy a controlling stake in radio personality Tom Joyner's media company for $56 million, furthering his attempt to turn the radio company his mother began out of a trailer 24 years ago into a diversified media group aimed at the black community.
The House and Senate last night overwhelmingly voted to extend three tax cuts aimed at the middle class along with a bevy of business-tax breaks, sending President Bush a
Ever hear of Ed Owens? I doubt it. Owens is one of the more publicity-shy executives at Wellington Management Co., itself one of the most publicity-averse investment firms in Boston. That's one reason Owens is the city's best mutual fund manager you probably don't know.
Check on the valuation of a badly wounded stock, based on latest earnings.
Not everyone was complaining when the price of a barrel of oil flirted with the $50 mark on global markets earlier this summer. For Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, it meant more money to
The Food and Drug Administration remains on the defensive. The agency got grilled on Capitol Hill for the second day in a row about the health risks of several popular prescription drugs.
Lofty oil prices may make the road ahead a little steeper, but the economy is on track to emerge from a recent soft patch intact, private-sector economists at a weekend retreat agreed.
PeopleSoft said Thursday that it would begin meeting with investors to lobby for their rejection of Oracle #39;s hostile $8.8 billion acquisition offer.
MG ROVERS controversial directors pension trust is to be substantially scaled back as the company nears the final stages of a vital partnership that will give
* Sprint #39;s strong wireless Internet service and Nextel #39;s walkie- talkie feature popular among mobile professionals would be a competitive combination.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission voted 3-2 on Tuesday to adopt a rule that for the first time will require hedge fund advisers to register with the agency and submit to SEC examinations.
Mirant Corp. (MIRKQ.PK: Quote, Profile, Research) has named its chief financial officer to the additional role of chief restructuring officer, the bankrupt power producer said on Thursday.
L-3 Communications Corp., which supplies products used in aerospace and defense platforms, agreed to buy CAE Inc. #39;s Marine Controls division for about $225 million cash and the assumption of about $42.
J Sainsbury bowed to pressure from the City watchdog yesterday and admitted that interim profits were likely to plunge - the third time it has issued a profits warning in the past seven months.
Shares of Mylan Laboratories Inc. (MYL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) surged more than 10 percent on Thursday after billionaire investor Carl Icahn got federal regulatory approval to buy up 11.9 percent of ...
US internet giant Amazon.com is buying China's largest web retailer Joyo.com, in a deal worth $75m (41m).
news - research) will seek to buy up to a quarter of Russian oil giant Lukoil, Reuters reported Friday, citing an industry source familiar with the matter.
Nortel Networks shares fell Thursday after the troubled telecom equipment maker warned that its full-year growth in 2004 will likely trail the industry, rather than outperform its peers as the company has been predicting.
China #39;s Commerce Minister Bo Xilai ( ) urged the US and other countries to live up to World Trade Organization agreements and refrain from seeking limits on Chinese textile exports when global quotas expire next year.
Philip Green has never been afraid to redefine conventional wisdom in the worlds in which he operates. But his recrafting of what constitutes a dividend represents his most challenging thinking to date.
US retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc plans to open 15 new stores in China next year, reported China Daily on Wednesday. Joe Hatfield, president of Wal-Mart Asia, revealed the news at a press conference yesterday in Beijing.
As we watched television coverage of Hurricane Charley last weekend, my wife and I reminisced about a time nearly two decades ago when we lived in Florida and got the word to evacuate.
Delta reached a tentative agreement with its pilots' union Wednesday night on wage and benefit cuts, averting a threatened bankruptcy filing, at least for now.
The prospective winning bidder for redeveloping Fan Pier yesterday missed a deadline for a down payment and the owners of the South Boston land said they plan to talk to other potential buyers.
The fate of two local retail stores may not be known for months in the wake of the announcement Wednesday of the $11 billion merger of Kmart and Sears.
A fifth year of powerful economic growth in East Asia and the Pacific has driven the number of people living in poverty in the region to its lowest level ever, but the World Bank warned yesterday that oil prices could dampen the boom next year.
WASHINGTON: The deficit at the federal agency that rescues failed US corporate pensions more than doubled to $23.3 billion in fiscal year 2004, officials said on Monday, with analysts largely blaming bankrupt airlines.
U.S. Treasury debt yields held near seven-month lows on Tuesday after a soft reading on U.S. consumer sentiment added modestly to concerns about the economy.
The Moscow Arbitration Court on Monday upheld the tax authorities #39; demand that the embattled oil giant Yukos must pay nearly 1.34 billion US dollars in fines as part of a 4.1-billion-dollar claim for 2001.
European shares hit a fresh 10-week high on Friday as a positive report on Chinese steel demand boosted ore producers such as Anglo-American, while French utility Veolia rose after posting solid first-half earnings.
Within months of acquiring FleetBoston Financial Corp. , Bank of America Corp. handed out its sales playbook to Fleet employees in the branches to teach them how to sell.
Internal e-mails and other documents from Merck amp; Co. show the company fought for years to keep safety concerns from undermining the drug #39;s commercial prospects, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.
Shares of Cogent Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COGT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COGT.O</A> soared 50 percent in their market debut on Friday after the fingerprint identification company's initial public offering priced at the top end of its range.
Financial experts combed records Thursday at China Aviation Oil, the Singapore-listed jet fuel supplier that this week sought court protection from creditors after admitting crushing losses from speculative trading.
A final laboratory test has confirmed an Alberta dairy cow had mad cow disease, the second case Canada has found in its herd, an industry source briefed by veterinary officials said on Sunday.
People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars.
A new round has opened in the European Commission anti-trust battle against Microsoft as the judge hearing its appeal called for a closed meeting.
The leading specialty women's clothier trounces expectations and sees more opportunity in the future.
Britain's WPP Group Plc has offered to pay more than #36;1.25 billion for advertising firm Gray Global Group, the Wall Street Journal said on Thursday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.
If you #39;ve been expecting an income-tax refund but haven #39;t received it yet, there #39;s a way to check with the Internal Revenue Service.
Mitsubishi Motors North America Inc launched a television ad campaign on Monday to improve its brand image that has been tarnished by a series of recall-related scandals over the past year.
The Bush administration lobbied Chinese economic officials on Thursday to overhaul a currency regime that American manufacturers contend gives China a huge competitive advantage.
A leading index of the U.S. economy dipped in the latest week, and a continued lack of growth in the data shows no end in sight to the current slowdown, a report showed on Friday.
The economy in many areas of the United States grew at a slower pace in late July and August as household spending softened, the Federal Reserve said in a report on Wednesday.
Camera maker Eastman Kodak and IBM, the world #39;s biggest computer company, said Thursday that the two US companies had agreed to a deal in which IBM will manufacture digital image sensors for Kodak.
American International Group, the world #39;s largest insurance firm, yesterday agreed to pay $126m (67m) to settle allegations that the company helped clients to commit accounting fraud.
The Trix Rabbit and the Lucky Charms leprechaun are going on a whole-grain diet.
United Airlines #39; parent company said in a bankruptcy-court filing Thursday that it eked out a $6 million net profit last month during the middle of the busy summer travel season.
Oil prices rose on Friday as a sabotage attack on Iraqi oil infrastructure reignited concern about the reliability of crude exports from the country despite a peace deal to end an uprising in Najaf.
Howard Stern, one of the most popular US radio personalities, said Wednesday he will broadcast his show on Sirius Satellite Radio (SIRI) beginning in 2006, after being dropped earlier this year from several stations that objected to
The state #39;s securities commissioner says a settlement between securities regulators and two firms likely means $337,500 for Arkansas.
Incoming European Union trade chief Peter Mandelson said on Monday he was confident the EU would have a strong counter-case if the United States brought a claim to the World Trade Organization over aircraft subsidies.
America West Holdings Corp. (AWA.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday said it would not bid for assets of bankrupt carrier ATA Airlines, saying the value does not justify the cost.
General Motors Acceptance Corp., the finance arm of General Motors Corp. (GM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , may periodically sell up to $3 billion in adjustable-rate demand notes, according to a regulatory filing on Friday.
Insurer Cigna on Wednesday posted a nearly two-thirds lift in third quarter earnings, but also said 2005 earnings should fall from 2004 levels.
Rising interest rates could trigger a house price crash in the UK, the International Monetary Fund warned today. The Washington-based group said the
H R Block rival Jackson Hewitt waits for the tax season, and profits, to arrive.
The Carter Center and the Organization of American States said an audit of returns from Sunday #39;s recall vote won by President Hugo Chavez found no evidence of irregularities.
Oracle Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ORCL.O</A> on Friday won the backing of another key public pension fund in its $8.8-billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PSFT.O</A> as the 17-month takeover battle between the two California-based business software makers neared a key deadline.
We should all have such luck: Bobby Britton won $4 million playing the Massachusetts State Lottery and wants to get a second opinion on what to do.
American Express Co. said on Monday its quarterly earnings rose 14 percent, matching analysts #39; expectations, due to strength in the economy that spurred record card
Games maker and publisher Acclaim, famous for dino game Turok, has filed for bankruptcy in the US.
Carphone Warehouse today announced a 25 increase in the number of connections during its second quarter, with interim pre-tax profits expected to be at least 27m.
Complaints: A television commercial featuring a wild-driving youngster at the wheel angers auto-safety advocates. DETROIT - General Motors Corp.
Mayor Gavin Newsom made good on his promise to join locked-out union members on the picket line Tuesday after a group of San Francisco hotels rejected his proposed 90-day cooling off period, extending a bitter labor dispute that has left 4,000 workers
Citigroup Inc., the world #39;s biggest bank, named Sallie Krawcheck chief financial officer and head of strategy, making her the highest-ranking woman on Wall Street.
Toyota, General Motors and seven other automakers filed suit to block California's new greenhouse gas regulation, which was approved by the state in September.
The Canadian arm of a huge tobacco company has asked a Quebec court to stop a provincial lawsuit claiming $1.4 billion in unpaid taxes on smuggled cigarettes.
The satellite radio company gears up to clean up in the portable player market. Also: United States lays a clear line against internet gambling hellip;. Outsourcing continues without a hitch hellip;. and more.
OAO Yukos Oil Co., Russia #39;s second- largest oil producer, said it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the US and asked for an emergency court hearing to stop the sale of its main unit in four days.
When John P. Reilly told me to think retro, visions of Davy Crockett and coonskin caps danced in my head. I began to imagine a sleigh full of hula hoops and plenty of Silly Putty in this year's bundle of toys.
LOS ANGELES - Customer relationship management software maker Siebel Systems Inc. is moving to reinvent itself in a bid to revive its flagging fortunes and drive new growth.
PARIS Snecma, a state-run maker of airplane engines, and Sagem, a maker of mobile phones and defense electronics, said Friday that they had agreed to merge in a transaction that would create a company worth about 7.
WALL Street #39;s broad market indicators ended nearly flat today after an early rally attempt ran out of steam, but tech stocks held on for solid gains.
The country #39;s largest flight attendants union is calling for a national strike against four airlines now in bankruptcy.
Business-software maker Cognos will buy Swedish financial-reporting software company Frango for $52.2 million. Cognos says the acquisition will strengthen its portfolio of corporate performance
The march of information technology into the workplace has been greeted with a mix of awe and resistance. For all their promise of productivity gains, computers, business software, and telecommunications gear have disrupted processes at the core of a company's identity.
U.S. stock futures rose on Thursday, pointing to a higher market open, as oil prices fell toward $48 a barrel and Wall Street seemed encouraged that the Federal Reserve would not accelerate its pace of interest rate hikes.
The FBI #39;s Salt Lake City office said Friday that Utah #39;s high rate of mortgage fraud has become the focus of its campaign to combat a host of white-collar crimes committed against financial institutions.
Holiday shoppers, intent on finding bargains, descended on the Washington region's malls this morning, joining a nationwide shopping spree that has come to be known as Black Friday.
Australia #39;s S amp;P/ASX 200 Index fell for a third day. Origin Energy Ltd. declined after New Zealand #39;s Contact Energy Ltd.
Dutch retailer Ahold NV, recovering from a major accounting scandal, reported a lower-than-expected second-quarter net profit of euro32 million (US $38.
Fool contributor Tim Beyers finds that when it comes to stocks, it might pay to be Scrooge.
HSH Nordbank was pursuing legal proceedings against Barclays to recoup losses on investments, a spokesperson for the German state-owned bank said yesterday.
HONG KONG The Commerce Ministry in China plans to impose tariffs on some textile exports, a step that could avert a trade war with the United States and the European Union over a new influx of low-cost Chinese garments that had appeared likely to flood
Dr. Jerry Avorn brings convincing data and sharp analysis to ''Powerful Medicines, quot; his timely, challenging appraisal of health policy.
For many wine aficionados, the most important case in years is about to be opened. On Tuesday, the US Supreme Court will hear arguments from small wineries and state regulators
Freddie Mac <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FRE.N</A>, the second-largest U.S. home financing company which has endured a barrage of intense public scrutiny in over the past year, on Friday revised its 2003 net income down by $75 million to cover a reserve for legal expenses, according to its annual report.
The company's revenue and earnings are just two reasons to like this stock.
U.S. stocks were flat on Monday as investors took some profits after a three-day rally last week, with interest rates and a weakening dollar taking center stage now that the presidential election is over.
Anil Ambani resigns from the petrochemical unit of Indian giant Reliance, renewing rumours of a management feud with elder brother Mukesh.
With poker's popularity growing because of televised tournaments, retailers are betting that playing cards and chips will be among the must-have items during the holiday shopping season.
Oil prices jumped a dollar on Thursday after the U.S. government said crude stocks fell to a fresh five-month low last week and distillate fuel inventories barely grew ahead of winter.
Leaders of the Air Line Pilots Association said US Airways' plan to cut salaries and benefits of management was welcome news, but does not constitute a deal.
Oil prices eased on Monday after rebels in Nigeria withdrew a threat to target oil operations, but lingering concerns over stretched supplies ahead of winter kept prices close to #36;50.
A profit warning from Coca-Cola took the fizz out of leading Wall St shares and sent the main indices sharply lower. At the closing bell, the Dow Jones was down 86.
PeopleSoft Inc. rebuffed Oracle Corp. #39;s latest hostile takeover bid, vowing to fight the $9.2 billion offer even if a majority of shareholders supported it.
High-flying oil prices paused in their ascent on Thursday as the U.S. government considered whether to release crude from the U.S. petroleum reserve after Hurricane Ivan sliced into supplies.
Captain Chuck Anderson from the Salvation Army is spraying the kettles red, in preparation for their annual Christmas fundraiser. He says, quot;Last year we helped almost 1500 children and senior citizens and over 600 families.
which cost 130million and opened only 10 years ago - is to close. The fleet of Eurostar trains, which connect London with Paris
Cisco Systems Inc., the biggest maker of equipment that directs data over the Internet, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose 29 percent on stronger demand for its networking gear.
Stocks edged lower Wednesday as investors weighed rising oil prices against a pair of government reports that gave a mixed picture about the economy.
Stocks staged a modest rally Wednesday as Wall Street embraced President Bush #39;s reelection and cheered the absence of a prolonged legal fight for the White House.
Malaysia's AirAsia is leaning toward European aircraft maker Airbus for an order of up to 80 short-haul planes, a source close to the airline said on Monday, in what would be another blow to rival Boeing.
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said a group of bond holders refused to change the terms of their securities, adding to the headwinds
Investors following Oracle Corp. #39;s hostile takeover battle with PeopleSoft Inc. got plenty of information to digest this week, including bold predictions
Casual Male caters to a big clientele but has to overcome a hefty debt load.
Japanese shares fell at the start of a holiday-shortened week on Tuesday as brokers and banks declined on recent data indicating signs of an economic slowdown in some key areas, offsetting gains in some chip-related stocks.
Tyson Foods Inc <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TSN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">TSN.N</A>., the world's largest meat company, said on Thursday that high beef prices may have consumers shifting to pork and chicken, but its beef segment should do well later this year.
European insurance giant Axa has withdrawn its Aust. $3.4 billion ( $2.48 billion) offer for the 48.3 percent of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings it doesn #39;t own after independent directors
JM Smucker Co., the largest US maker of jellies and jams, sold its operations in Brazil to closely held Cargill Inc. The sale of Smucker do Brasil Ltda.
The Bush administration announced Thursday it would provide US refineries with limited quantities #39; #39; of crude oil from the nation #39;s emergency stockpile to help offset supply
G.E.'s sale may set off a trend as other multinational companies move from owning back-office units to outsourcing to independent companies.
The index-fund-pioneering firm Vanguard is making college more affordable - by lowering the fees it charges on the 529 plan it runs. Most states offer 529 plans, and you can often participate in the plan of a state other than the one where you live or where your young one will attend college. Thus, the fact that the Vanguard 529 College Savings Plan is sponsored by the state of Nevada shouldn't make you click out of this article. Keep reading.
The world's largest gold producer, Newmont Mining Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NEM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">NEM.N</A>, on Wednesday said higher gold prices drove up quarterly profit by 12.5 percent, even though it sold less of the precious metal.
International Business Machines Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IBM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">IBM.N</A> has settled for an undisclosed sum part of a potentially multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over its pension plan, a Wednesday court filing shows.
Shares of Elpida Memory Inc., a chipmaking joint venture between Japanese electronics giants Hitachi Ltd. and NEC Corp.
Asian investors took advantage of a pause in climbing oil prices on Thursday to buy beaten-down technology stocks, autos and other exporters, snapping a nine-session losing streak by Japan's key stock index.
Dubai Ports International (DPI), a leading world port operator, announced it had acquired the international terminal business conducted by CSX World Terminals (CSXWT) for 1.15 billion dollars.
Oil futures prices rose in Europe Thursday amid concerns about heating oil supplies at the beginning of the Northern Hemisphere winter.
The Federal Aviation Administration must improve oversight of air carriers and passengers who bring hazardous materials onto planes, according to a report
President Arroyo has asked her economic managers to lay the groundwork for the declaration of an unsustainable public deficit which will allow the national government
So when a consortium of investors led by the Sony Corporation of America announced that it had reached a deal in principle to acquire Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for nearly $5 billion, it came
Forget about IBM and all the other dinosaurs. But remember the investment lessons they offer.
The Vanguard Group, the second-biggest U.S. mutual fund firm, said on Thursday it has closed the $1.4 billion Vanguard International Explorer Fund to thwart speculative short-term investors and protect long-term shareholders.
The term quot;blog quot; has been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a US dictionary publisher. Merriam-Webster said quot;blog quot; headed the list of most looked-up terms on its site during the last twelve months.
IBM is claiming unofficial bragging rights as owner of the world #39;s fastest supercomputer. IBM says its still-unfinished quot;BlueGene System quot; can sustain speeds of 36 teraflops.
Trendsetter Martha Stewart reported to a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for a suspicious sale of stock, U.S. prison officials said.
The parent company of American Airlines said it must refinance or replace an $834 million credit facility or it might not be able to comply with one of the covenants of the loan, according to news reports Thursday.
Putin signs law restricting airtime and content in effort to curb his country #39;s alcohol intake. MOSCOW (Reuters) - A sweeping ban on beer advertising in Russia became law Tuesday in a move to curb the country #39;s
The announcement was called a breakthrough in the US Justice Department #39;s long investigation into price-fixing allegations in the semiconductor industry.
American courts came into direct conflict with Russia yesterday, after Russia insisted it would push on with plans to sell off the main chunk of stricken oil giant Yukos
Riding the tail of a shark, DreamWorks Animation Inc. arrives on Wall Street today in the most high-profile entertainment company initial public offering in years.
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed over one percent higher on Tuesday after positive U.S. retail sales data eased concern about demand in Japan's main export market and spurred buying of blue chips such as Sony Corp.
A new gold-backed security named streetTRACKS Gold Shares made a much-hyped debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, aimed a attracting the investment capital that helped lift the bullion price to a 16-year high
House of Fraser has posted narrower first-half losses on improved gross margins and announced a new partnership deal with Barclaycard to manage its customer account cards.
Delta Air Lines said Wednesday it has revised its 2003 annual report to include a new report by its independent auditor warning that bankruptcy is looming.
A union warns of "very serious problems over Christmas" if its members vote to strike in a row over pay.
Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical firm says it will also close a research facility in North Carolina in effort to reduce drug prices.
Crude oil futures rose to a record for a third day, reaching US $52.53 a barrel in New York, on concern US supplies may be insufficient to meet demand this winter.
When Internet-based companies, especially ones the size of Oracle and PeopleSoft, announce fundamental changes, responses are usually swift.
One of my favorite pastimes as the final ruling on expensing stock options came upon us has been to read the increasingly hysterical opinion pages of the San Jose Mercury News, the newspaper of record for Silicon Valley.
Microsoft will pay as much as $500 million as a part of settlement of the antitrust lawsuit that may be filed by rival software maker Novell, the company said Monday, within an attempt to end its antitrust fight.
MOSCOW The stakes are high in the much-publicized feud between the Kremlin and the Russian oil giant Yukos - so high that the outcome of that battle will shape how the country #39;s energy industry grows in 2005 and beyond.
SOFTBANK, Japan #39;s largest internet provider, has complained that its plan to offer a new mobile phone service could be thwarted by the government #39;s refusal to provide the necessary bandwidth.
The United Nations Conference on Trade amp; Development (UNCTAD) on Wednesday placed India among the top four Asian foreign direct investment (FDI) destinations and said it will get more foreign investment flows as the global economy rebounds
The dollar clung to most of the previous session's gains against the euro on Monday after a positive U.S. jobs report last week reinforced expectations for an interest rate rise this month.
White Plains, NY - Former Coca-Cola Company president Steven Heyer today was named the new chief executive of Starwood Hotels, effective Oct. 1. Heyer succeeds Starwood founder Barry
UK biotechnology company Cambridge Antibody Technology has announced a five-year alliance with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca. CAT said AstraZeneca will make an upfront equity investment in CAT worth 75
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--Australia #39;s WMC Resources Ltd. (WMC) on Thursday said it recently received a conditional takeover proposal from London-listed resource major Xstrata PLC (XTA.
MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India surprised the market on Tuesday by raising the overnight benchmark repo rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent, citing concerns about a rise in inflation in Asia #39;s fourth-largest economy.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is close to settling a class action lawsuit for $220 million stemming from allegations that it colluded with other brokerages to mislead Enron Corp.
quot;Over the river and through the woods quot; isn #39;t just a musical refrain as we enter the holiday season . It #39;s the real thing for most Americans, who are expected to hit the road in record numbers this year.
Warren Buffett, the world #39;s second-richest man, is targeting California workers #39; compensation insurance; betting recent reforms will make the ailing market more profitable.
The shift would in all probability save the company more than 10 million pounds a year. The jobs would range from front and back office functions, including call centre posts.
Embattled Russian oil group YUKOS (YUKO.RTS: Quote, Profile, Research) should hear later on Thursday whether a US bankruptcy court will attempt to hold up the
Bee Staff Writer. The University of California, negotiating on behalf of Enron Corp. investors, reached a $222.5 million settlement Friday with the Lehman Brothers brokerage firm over its part in the multibillion-dollar Enron debacle.
Two days after a PeopleSoft Inc. board member suggested the company may be willing to sell to Oracle Corp. for the right price, an Oracle director said his firm #39;s offer to buy its Pleasanton rival for $21 per share may not be final.
The US Supreme Court, as expected, let stand a ruling against Visa and MasterCard for anti-competitive practices on Monday, handing a victory to their arch-rival American Express.
The unusual strategy adopted by the Federal Reserve in the summer of 2003 for stoking the US economy without cutting interest rates was a clear success, researchers at the US central bank have concluded in a new study.
Nippon Steel Corp. has told Toyota, Honda and Nissan it wants to raise steel prices for the second time this year, the Asahi Shimbun reports.
The outside directors of Marsh McLennan <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> have talked to New York's attorney general about having its chief executive step aside amid a probe into its business practices, the Wall Street Journal said on Friday.
NEW DELHI: The UPA government on Wednesday hiked the foreign equity limit in domestic airlines from 40 per cent to 49 per cent, but maintained the ban on international airlines from buying equity in the Indian carriers, even indirectly.
East Kilbride-based dairy group Robert Wiseman is celebrating its second major milk contract after sealing a new deal with supermarket giant Tesco.
The departure Tuesday of Stephen Friedman, who left Wall Street to assume one of the top economic posts in the White House as director of the National Economic Council, will open a key economic policy position just as President Bush begins his ambitious push to overhaul Social Security and the tax code.
A federal bankruptcy judge has given United Airlines a 30-day quot;test period quot; to show it can cooperate with its unions on a restructuring plan, rejecting union calls to open the process up to rival proposals immediately because United has not
The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed yesterday to cut the supply of oil to world markets and defend higher prices in spite of concern about
Interstate Bakeries, the maker of Wonder Bread, Hostess Twinkies and other baked goods, denied conjecture that it would be filing for bankruptcy.
Cash America International Inc. (PWN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , one of the world #39;s largest pawn shop operators, on Wednesday said it would buy the pawn operating assets of Camco Inc.
Rebates are getting easier. Instead of making it as difficult as possible for a consumer to claim a rebate, some retailers are simplifying the process, figuring fewer hassles along the way will build customer loyalty and raise sales.
Cellphone users accustomed to using their phones to play computer games, listen to music, and take pictures now have something new to do with their wireless telephones: respond to magazine and outdoor advertisements.
Asian stocks rose in US trading. Sony Corp. gained after the world #39;s No. 2 consumer-electronics maker agreed to resolve a dispute over patents related to digital cameras.
For 18 months, Office Depot executives have delved into the minutiae of the retailer #39;s financial controls, scrutinizing how it accounts for the goods it buys and testing to see, for example, that daily sales match daily deposits.
Nationwide, the UK #39;s largest building society, yesterday warned that more than 40pc of Britons believe they face a retirement of financial hardship, while the Consumers
Banking giant UBS (UBSN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research) was cautious over prospects for the rest of the year after a seasonal lull in trading hurt its third-quarter
A discussion of Venezuela #39;s political crisis should not begin or end with a cautionary parable about Herbert Mathews, but his image is hard to shake.
Canada #39;s Goldcorp said Sunday it has reached an agreement in principal to buy Wheaton River Minerals in an all-stock deal valued at about $2 billion.
Fabric and craft retailer lowers its profit outlook for both the third quarter and full year. ATLANTA (Reuters) - Shares of fabric and craft retailer Jo-Ann Stores Inc.
If you think oil is expensive now, just imagine if Hurricane Ivan had swung west and come ashore at this bustling oil and gas port at the southernmost point of Louisiana.
Foreign investors may be allowed to bid for the key oil producing subsidiary of embattled Russian oil firm Yukos. Moscow authorities are forcing the sale of Yuganskneftegas, which accounts for 60 of the firm #39;s
Reynolds American reports a third-quarter profit of $339 million in its first earnings report since the combination of RJ Reynolds and the US operations of Brown and Williamson Tobacco.
After winning union acceptance of job cuts, Alitalia gave formal approval Monday to a four-year business plan aimed at saving the near-bankrupt Italian airline from collapse.
The European Commission said Tuesday that it has approved Oracle Corp. #39;s $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft Inc., removing the last antitrust obstacle to the hostile takeover attempt.
Sprint is close to an agreement to buy Nextel for more than $35 billion in a mostly stock deal, sources familiar with the situation said on Friday.
Lawyers leading a record-setting sex discrimination case against Wal-Mart Stores said on Tuesday they filed a lawsuit against Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , claiming the company kept women out of top ...
Pilots at Delta Air Lines overwhelmingly approved a new five-year contract today with $1 billion in annual concessions sought by the airline, which had threatened to file for bankruptcy if the pilots did not acquiesce.
Most of the signs attached to Brady's most recent quarter say "Don't Exit."
Zimbabwe's tobacco crop, one of the country's main exportable commodities, falls for the fourth year running.
When President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva visited China in May of 2004, he was like an innocent abroad. He naively thought the Chinese would welcome his attempts to form a strategic partnership between two of the worlds largest developing countries.
In response to the letter quot;Glad some still let bells ring quot; (People #39;s Forum, Dec. 8), it is true that Target is no longer letting Salvation Army bell ringers stand at the front of their stores.
News Corporation shareholders have approved the company #39;s decision to move its headquarters from Australia to United States. At a extraordinary meeting in Adelaide, more than 90 of shareholders voted to support
TiVo Inc., a maker of digital recorders for televisions, on Monday posted a wider third-quarter loss on an investment in subscription acquisition activities, but the company performed better than Wall Street expected.
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits rose last week. The Labor Department says claims, reflecting the impact of hurricanes in Florida, increased by a seasonally adjusted 14,000 to 350,000.
Business confidence in Germany, Europe #39;s largest economy, fell to its lowest level in more than a year in November as the euro #39;s climb to a record high against the dollar threatened exports and unemployment at a five-year high crimped consumer spending
Tokyo's Nikkei average closed down 0.17 percent on Tuesday as growing worries over the domestic economic outlook hit banks and insurers, offsetting gains in shipping firms and others with bright earnings prospects.
Northwest Airlines Corp. (NWAC.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said Chief Executive Richard Anderson is leaving the company to join a health care group, as the airline struggles
Employees at the institutional investing unit of brokerage Charles Schwab (SCH ) are anxiously awaiting an announcement from management that their division is to be sold to investment bank UBS (UBS ) for a reported $265 million.
Oil prices surged to new record highs on Monday near $50 for U.S. crude as Nigeria emerged as the latest focus for worries about supply security on world energy markets.
Intel, the world #39;s largest manufacturer of semiconductors used in personal computers and servers, reported third-quarter sales and earnings that were roughly in line with Wall Street #39;s diminished expectations.
The dollar edged up against the yen on Thursday as surprisingly limp machinery orders data for Japan helped investors to recoup earlier losses made on cautious remarks about U.S. growth by the Federal Reserve chief.
A judge ruled today that three British bankers can be extradited to the United States to face wire fraud charges related to off-balance sheet dealings with the Enron energy group.
Exporters led a fall in Asian shares on Monday as oil prices set new highs near #36;47 and data showing the U.S. trade deficit widened to a record raised fresh concern about the health of the world's largest economy.
Walt Disney Co. said Thursday that profit jumped 24 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter, driven by growth at its television networks, theme parks and consumer products businesses.
With a fall in oil prices easing inflation concerns, the Federal Reserve is expected to continue its easy-does-it approach to raising interest rates, boosting a key rate by a moderate quarter-point at its final meeting of the year today.
Calpers, the biggest US pension fund, on Thursday said it had tendered its 1.5 million shares of PeopleSoft Inc. (PSFT.O: Quote, Profile, Research) to Oracle Corp.
But exports to Europe safe after the Russian oil firm seals a barter deal with pipeline monopoly. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Yukos #39; crippling tax debts finally forced the Russian oil major to make a much-feared production cut Wednesday.
Australia #39;s Computershare has agreed to buy EquiServe of the United States for US $292 million ( $423 million), making it the largest US share registrar and driving its shares up by a third.
Robust research doesn't guarantee success, but Pedro Zuloaga insists it stacks your odds.
A sparsely populated western state best known for potatoes is becoming a magnet for tech entrepreneurs. The slow pace, absence of traffic and low-rise landscape has helped lure 800 tech companies to the state.
Verizon Communications Inc. said yesterday it will extend a powerful new fiber-optic network capable of delivering cable television to 1 million US homes and businesses by year's end, including more than 100,000 in suburban Boston.
AMR Corp., the owner of American Airlines, said Friday that it received a $850 million, revolving credit line, replacing a $834 million line that was set to expire next year.
Swiss drug maker Novartis Pharma AG said Monday that the Food and Drug Administration has again requested more information on the company #39;s Certican treatment, when used in combination with Neoral, to prevent heart and kidney transplant rejection episodes
Oracles 18-month hostile takeover battle for PeopleSoft came to an end on Friday evening with a single phone call. A PeopleSoft director, through an attorney, contacted Oracle with the lucky number: $26.50
Lehman Brothers analyst Blake Bath said in a research note earlier this week that SBC might reduce its workforce by 10,000 to 20,000 to bring its costs in line with those at other dominant local telephone companies, such as Verizon Communications Inc.
Computer Associates International Inc. said Monday it has revoked home security and office support benefits to former Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Kumar, who was indicted last week on
Target #39;s decision to ban The Salvation Army bell ringers from stores has sparked a backlash, according to news reports from around the country.
BRUSSELS Microsoft said Monday that it had reached legal settlements with two of its biggest adversaries in the software industry, Novell and the Computer and Communications Industry Association.
Penn National Gaming is buying Argosy Gaming, which operates Indiana #39;s largest riverboat casino, in a stock deal worth $2.2 billion that includes $805 million in long-term debt, the companies said yesterday.
OPEC members were divided yesterday on whether their output should be increased in a bid to boost global supply that might cause oil prices to drop.
Japan's Nikkei share average fell 0.36 percent at the opening on Wednesday as profit-taking pushed down recent gainers including Bridgestone Corp. after the market had risen in the previous four sessions.
Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. announced Wednesday its group net profit fell 43.1 percent in the fiscal first half from a year earlier to 171.7 billion yen, while merger partner UFJ
QANTAS yesterday shrugged off the exit of its major shareholder, with the stock buoyed by the prospect of more international alliances now that British Airways is off its share registry.
Google rose $14.97 to close at $187.40 per share, giving it a market value of $51.4 billion compared to $47.9 billion for Internet rival Yahoo.
About 3,000 shoppers were evacuated from a Toys quot;R quot; Us store in Times Square yesterday after pepper spray was set off inside, fire officials said.
Energy utility TXU Corp. on Monday more than quadrupled its quarterly dividend payment and raised its projected earnings for 2004 and 2005 after a companywide performance review.
The US trade deficit has exploded 19 to a record $55.8bn as oil costs drove imports higher, according to a latest figures.
It signalled this in no uncertain terms when oil prices fell below US $50 ( $83) mark on Monday. US light crude dipped to US $49 at one point before ending at US $49.
Kimberly-Clark Corp. said Monday it aims to cut costs by $400 million to $500 million over the next three years, and plans to boost its dividend by 12.5 percent and repurchase at least $1 billion in stock during 2005.
ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, received a subpoena from New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and said it #39;s cooperating with his insurance market probe.
China has agreed to step in and pay Russian rail fees to ensure that it continues to receive Yukos oil if the company is unable to cover the transport costs, officials at Russia #39;s rail transport monopoly said Wednesday.
A special committee of Hollinger International, which was instrumental in ousting Conrad Black as head of the Chicago-based newspaper company, filed its final report in an Illinois court yesterday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it plans to increase its store space by 8 percent in the fiscal year beginning in February, including 240 to
Although problems still hang over the company, Bristol-Myers is paving the way for recovery.
Boston Scientific Corp. could face tougher competition in markets for cardiac products if talks between two of its largest competitors lead to a merger, analysts and investors said.
Synopsys Inc., which makes software used in the design of microchips, on Wednesday reported fourth-quarter sales slumped 27 percent, triggering a loss for the period.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing biotechnology companies as part of a wider effort to ensure that companies don #39;t mislead investors
Maxim Pharmaceutical's Ceplene produces disappointing results.
The Longaberger Co. is reducing the size of a planned layoff to 784 employees, down from its July estimate of 970. The Newark-based basket maker said the jobs will end Sept.
Rival trans-Tasman airlines Air New Zealand and Qantas have far from abandoned their dreams of an alliance, despite it failing to clear yet another hurdle.
Shares of Sprint Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FON.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FON.N</A> rose 5.4 percent before the bell on Tuesday after the Wall Street Journal reported that Verizon Communications <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VZ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">VZ.N</A> has gained the backing of partner Vodafone Group <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VOD.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">VOD.L</A> to bid for Sprint.
Dow Jones amp; Company, which publishes vital business and financial news and information, announced that the Far Eastern Economic Review will change its format from a news weekly to a monthly magazine of issues and ideas, largely written by
Financial group Fortis has reported a bigger-than-expected rise in earnings and says it is growing more upbeat about 2004, with both its banking and insurance units posting strong gains.
Sears Canada Inc. has dismissed Mark Cohen as chairman and chief executive officer, citing quot;strategic differences quot; between him and the board of directors.
ALAN GREENSPAN, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, undercut lingering hopes of staging an operation to support the dollar at a meeting of bankers in Frankfurt yesterday
Pfizer Inc., the world #39;s biggest drugmaker, said Wednesday third-quarter earnings rose on higher sales of key medicines. The New York based company said it earned $3.
United Parcel Service, the US delivery company, is to take direct control of its core international express operations in China, paying US $100m to buy out its local partner, Hong Kong-listed Sinotrans.
President Vladimir Putin said Monday that Russia and Belarus have put a sharp dispute over natural gas deliveries behind them and that there are no obstacles to good relations.
A High Court judge on Wednesday approved a debt-for-equity survival plan developed by MyTravel, clearing the way for the troubled travel company to present the proposal to shareholders and creditors next month.
Prudential Equity Group raised its earnings estimates for Automatic Data Processing (nyse: ADP - news - people ) after the payroll and data processing services firm reported better-than-expected fiscal first-quarter results.
A US government auditor says the US Army should withhold 15 per cent of future payments to Halliburton for work in Iraq due to billing disputes - in a move that could cost the contractor tens of millions of dollars.
Northwest Airlines Corp. canceled controversial fees on tickets bought through some travel agents after the agents and fare distributors objected and rivals didn #39;t match the higher cost.
Blaming the complexity of the task, Nortel Networks Corp. is delaying the release of long-awaited financial results by another month, to late October, and may seek another delay of its annual meeting.
quot;We were wrong about Vioxx, but you can trust us on all those other meds, quot; the FDA seems to be saying. If you enjoy this article, you may also be interested in an article entitled #39;The FDA remains in state of denial about drug safety questions.
Safeway Inc. , the third-largest U.S. grocer, on Tuesday reported a lower quarterly profit as it grappled with lingering costs from a labor strike in California earlier this year.
Carbon dioxide emissions will be almost 40 higher by the end of the decade than they were in 1990 despite growing use of renewable energy, the International Energy Agency said yesterday.
Electronic Data Systems Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=EDS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">EDS.N</A>, one of the world's biggest computer services companies, is likely to cut up to 20,000 jobs over the next two years, the company's chief executive said on Thursday.
Turkish mobile operator Turkcell is going ahead with a network in Iran, despite a law giving Iranian MPs a veto over foreign investment.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--James Hardie Industries NV (JHX) said Monday it is willing to help the medical fund it established to pay victims of asbestos-related illnesses avert a liquidity crisis.
General Mills announced Monday that it is selling its stake in a European snack operation to PepsiCo for $750 million.
Defense stocks soared to 52-week highs Wednesday morning as George W. Bush was poised to make a speech accepting re-election, a situation promising continued spending on overseas warfare.
NYMEX crude kept close to record highs near #36;54 early on Tuesday as global oil supplies remained hounded by disruptions, magnifying concerns over U.S. heating oil stocks ahead of the winter, traders said.
Corus Group Plc, the UK #39;s biggest steelmaker, reported its first profit and revived plans to sell 500 million euros ( $608 million) of bonds to refinance debt after it benefited from higher steel prices and cost cuts.
Wall Street was expected edge higher at Tuesday's opening as the price of U.S. crude oil eased, with insurers firming after the head of Marsh McLennan Cos. Inc.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">MMC.N</A> resigned.
As the high-pressure holiday travel season rolls in, the transportation industry is anticipating some of the highest numbers seen in four years.
US bankruptcy judge agrees to consider airline #39;s motion to cancel pact, save $725 million a year. CHICAGO (Reuters) - A federal bankruptcy judge agreed Friday to consider a motion by United Airlines to cancel
More than 700 Wisconsin residents haven #39;t received federal tax refunds worth a total of more than $479,000 because the checks were returned to the Internal Revenue Service as undeliverable.
Union says pilots may retire en masse to get payments rather than ride out possible bankruptcy. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines Inc.
Gary L. Pilgrim and Harold J. Baxter, founders of a tech-based mutual fund that blazed and then fizzled in the 1990s, agreed yesterday to pay $160 million to settle
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--US private equity group Newbridge Capital Inc. (NBG.XX) said Wednesday it plans to expand Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality Group Ltd.
The decision comes on top of 12,500 job cuts that the bank initially said it would eliminate during the merger. The bank #39;s move drew fire from two Massachusetts
Oil prices perked up from 7-week lows on Friday on forecasts for colder-than-normal weather in the U.S. Northeast.
A former assistant treasurer at toppled energy giant Enron Corp. pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge Tuesday for his alleged role in making Enron #39;s financial picture appear rosier than it really was.
Italy's public accounts are in quot;serious quot; imbalance and corrective measures are needed to prevent the public deficit from skyrocketing above the European Union limit in the coming years, Bank of Italy governor Antonio Fazio said.
United States health titan Johnson and Johnson has reached a deal to acquire American heart device manufacturer Guidant, in a stock-and-cash deal valued at $23.9-billion, based on $76 per share, the companies said in a statement early on
The Italian Treasury has raised 7.5 billion euros ( $9.5 billion) from the sale of almost 20 percent of utility company Enel (ENEI.
The rise in retail sales was the best showing since March. Also, producer prices rose 0.1 percent in September.
Economy: With consumer confidence down and spending up, shoppers wrestle with #39;stop-and-go #39; mixed signals.
Plug Power Inc., a maker of on-site power generation systems for commercial and residential dwellings, on Tuesday said Tyco Electronics Power Systems Inc.
Non-energy income trusts are disappointing investors, with two more cutting or suspending their cash distributions to unitholders this week and causing the value of their units to plummet.
The REIT's commercial mortgage-backed securities may be tied to Rouse's prestigious mall portfolio.
Shares of drugmaker Merck amp; Co. Inc. (MRK.N: Quote, Profile, Research) traded 1.52 percent higher on volume of more than 61,000 shares in pre-market dealings on Friday, a day after
Former President Bill Clinton helped launch a new Internet search firm that claims better results for its engine than Google (nasdaq: GOOG - news - people ). The firm is called Accoona, from the Swahili phrase
Toyota Motor Corp., the world #39;s second- largest carmaker, had an unexpected drop in quarterly profit as investment earnings at its truck making unit fell and a stronger yen cut the value of overseas sales.
Oil and gas producer Kerr-McGee Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KMG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">KMG.N</A> on Wednesday reported a fall in quarterly profit, citing a writedown related to a pigment plant and higher environmental charges.
#39; #39;The Oprah Winfrey Show quot; was the best advertising an estimated $8 million could buy for the launch of the Pontiac G6 sedan.
Volkswagen workers staged a new round of brief stoppages early Monday, keeping up pressure on the automaker ahead of wage talks in which the company is sticking to a demand for a two-year pay freeze.
Orders for chip-equipment placed with North American manufacturers declined in August and could decline further in coming months, an industry trade group said late Thursday.
Russian oil giant Yukos is to ask a Moscow court for more time to pay its tax bill.
On Monday, the same day the California Senate passed a bill that would ban state agencies from contracting services out to companies that use overseas labor, opponents and proponents of offshore outsourcing clashed during a conference at Stanford University.
U.S. stocks rose on Wednesday lifted by a merger between retailers Kmart and Sears, better-than-expected earnings from Hewlett-Packard and data showing a slight rise in core inflation.
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. said Monday that its losses jumped for the first half of the fiscal year as the Japanese automaker struggled to recover from an auto-defect scandal that has sent sales plunging.
FOR THE first time, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo acknowledged yesterday that the country was in a fiscal crisis, a move meant to rally the public behind her tax reform and cost-cutting measures to avert an Argentina-like financial meltdown in the
Nearly three years after Enron Corp.'s dramatic collapse into bankruptcy, the first criminal trial against the disgraced energy company's former employees is set to kick off on Monday.
National Semiconductor Corp. said Monday it agreed to sell its imaging business, which makes chips used in small cameras and cell phones, to camera giant Eastman Kodak Co.
ATA Holdings, the bankrupt parent of ATA Airlines, took a key step Thursday toward salvaging more of its struggling operations.
Rite Aid Corp. (RAD.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the third-largest US drugstore chain, on Tuesday warned that if current sales trends continue its fiscal 2005 results would fall below expectations it gave in September.
Figuring out which way the winds are blowing in the chip sector just got harder. Recent news suggests the all-encompassing rally off the September lows has ended and the sector #39;s investors will have to be much more selective going forward.
The company will fight the order to reveal its software code to rivals. Also: Startup wants Google to feel outdated hellip;. Sony plasters Europe with Walkmans hellip;. and more.
America's factories saw orders for costly manufactured goods post the biggest gain in four months, a sign that the economy is emerging from an early summer funk.
Bee Staff Writer. Sean Harrigan, ousted from the board of the California Public Employees #39; Retirement System, is lobbying for a return to the powerful pension fund, but his campaign does
Colgate-Palmolive Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CL.N</A> on Monday issued its first formal profit warning in almost a decade, saying earnings will fall well short of Wall Street forecasts due to higher marketing spending, sending its shares down 11 percent to a four-year low.
Power company Progress Energy Inc. lowered its 2004 earnings outlook Friday because damage from Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Ivan limits the amount of tax credits the company can claim for its synthetic fuel production.
Dell Inc. said Thursday its third-quarter profit rose 25 percent from a year earlier as the No. 1 personal-computer maker boosted sales of its PCs, laptops and other gear by 18 percent.
Diversified manufacturer Honeywell International Inc. posted a rise in quarterly profit as strong demand for aerospace equipment and automobile components boosted revenues, the company said on Wednesday.
Millionaire executive Martha Stewart announced Wednesday that she decided to begin her prison sentence for lying about a stock trade as soon as possible.
The dollar hit an eight-month low against the euro on Tuesday, coming within a cent of a record low, and set its lowest level in eight years versus Swiss franc on concerns about the U.S. economy and current account gap.
As if Intel's profit bomb didn't put enough of a damper on the summer-ending long weekend, investors returning next week after Labor Day will be wary of a market offering as much pitfall as promise.
Stocks seesawed in afternoon trade Thursday, with blue chips struggling to maintain their gains while techs edged lower following warnings from Google.
they will have completed the easy part. The harder part, industry executives and analysts
Personal computer maker Gateway Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GTW.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GTW.N</A> on Thursday posted a net loss that narrowed from a year earlier and bettered its own forecast, helped by higher PC sales and lower costs.
Some people don #39;t think about federal income taxes until the first week of April. Others jump on them in late January, as soon as their W-2s show up in the mail.
A Delaware judge ruled yesterday that co-op owners at the Watergate East were within their rights when they voted this summer to reject the offer of a D.C. developer to purchase property as part of a plan to convert the Watergate Hotel into more luxury co-ops.
DaVita Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DVA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DVA.N</A> is close to an agreement to acquire the dialysis operations of Sweden's Gambro AB for about $3 billion in a deal that would create the No. 1 U.S. provider of dialysis services, a source familiar with the situation said on Monday.
Despite cautionary words from Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge last week about the impact of the rising dollar, Canadian gross domestic product likely grew at a healthy 3.5 clip in the third quarter due to strong consumer spending.
A sharp drop in oil prices gave Wall Street a modest relief rally yesterday, with stocks edging higher on news that oil production had soared during the month of September.
The price of gold rose to a 16-year high above $455 an ounce on Wednesday as investors piled into the hard asset amid widespread worries about the dropping U.S. dollar.
Automaker DaimlerChrysler AG said Friday it will book a charge of 400 million euro in the third quarter to cover the cost of recalls and past quality problems at Japanese truckmaker Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corp.
LSI Logic (LSI ) says based on customer reassessment of end demand for the second half of the year, it lowered the $435 million to $465 million third-quarter revenue guidance to $370 million to $400 million, and cut the breakeven to 3-cent third-quarter
GlaxoSmithKline agreed on Thursday to post the results of all clinical trials of its drugs, both positive and negative, on the Internet.
Fueled by the ongoing economic rally, businesses are boosting their contributions to 401(k) plans.
By Bloomberg News. Whole Foods Market Inc., the largest natural-foods grocer in the United States, said yesterday that fourth-quarter profit rose 27 percent as sales increased.
Bookseller Borders Group Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BGP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BGP.N</A> on Tuesday slashed its financial forecast, saying sales were weaker than expected due in part to hurricanes, and that profits during the key holiday season would miss Wall Street estimates.
Some large health insurers are feeling vindicated after Merck #39;s decision to withdraw its painkiller Vioxx from the market because long-term use raises the risk of heart attack or stroke.
One out of every four working American families earns wages so low they struggle to survive financially, according to a report due out today.
Theodore Forstmann, a pioneer in the leveraged buyout frenzy of the 1980s and 1990s, plans to leave the business in 2006, the New York Times said on Sunday.
The retailing company Kmart Holding Corp. has appointed Aylwin Lewis, formerly an executive at the restaurant operator Yum Brands Inc.
Japan's Nikkei share average was up 0.64 percent in mid-morning trade on Monday after a fall in the yen helped some exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp.
On Thursday, biotechnology companies Genentech Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. said US regulators have approved their drug Tarceva for treating the most common form of lung cancer.
Wal-Mart is reducing its forecast for same store sales for the month of August. It is blaming store closures caused by Hurricane Charley last week.
Software maker PeopleSoft is girding itself for a proxy battle as part of its 17-month takeover battle with Oracle, indicating it fears its shareholders are tempted to sell to its rival.
The dollar slumps to a new record low against the euro, breaching the $1.30 level on news of another large trade deficit.
news - research) is never boring! Monday night, the company announced that its phase III Genasense study in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) met its primary endpoint, which was tumor shrinkage.
The Royal Bank of Canada, the country #39;s biggest bank, said yesterday it suffered a 5 drop in third-quarter profit, displaying weakness in its US operations and citing tight interest-rate spreads and rising expenses.
WOOLWORTHS Ltd chief executive Mr Roger Corbett yesterday signalled a shift in the supermarket battlefront away from petrol discounting as the retail group tipped 10-15 per cent profit growth in 2004-2005.
British Airways announced Friday that it was increasing its fuel surcharge on both short-haul and long-haul flight tickets because of rising oil prices.
Shares in AstraZeneca Plc fell as much as 10 percent on Friday after regulators in the United States and Europe raised safety concerns about the Anglo-Swedish drug maker's anti-cholesterol treatment Crestor.
In a surprise move, PeopleSoft issued a press release this morning at 8:15 ET announcing that it had fired Craig Conway as president and CEO.
Sales for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is expected to rise sharply in 2004, but decline slightly in 2005, according to a year-end consensus forecast released late Tuesday by the industry #39;s largest trade group.
Washington area homeowners living in historic districts are rapidly taking advantage of substantial federal income tax write-offs under obscure easement trust plan.
WASHINGTON Federal regulators have cleared the way for Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams Company to buy paint brush and roller-maker Paint Sundry Brands Corporation.
PARIS The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development raised its 2004 growth outlook Tuesday for the world economy, forecasting further expansion in Europe and a robust upturn in Japan that would outpace the United States for the first time in
U.S. stocks were little changed on Tuesday as investors worried corporate profits would be hurt by rising oil prices, driven higher as Hurricane Ivan threatened to disrupt oil production.
Baer #39;s North American wealth management business employs 55 people and manages more than $4 billion in client assets. It is based in Manhattan and has additional offices in Los Angeles, Palm Beach and Montreal.
Australia #39;s biggest supermarket group, Woolworths Ltd, has won a fierce Aust. $1.33 billion ( $1 billion) battle for pubs chain ALH on Tuesday, beating out rival Coles Myer Ltd which has conceded defeat.
Internet search leader Google Inc. yesterday introduced Google Desktop Search, a free program that creates an index of the files on a user #39;s own computer.
Oil prices eased on Monday as speculative funds continued to take profits but a tight global supply picture stopped the selling from gaining much momentum.
PeopleSoft #39;s profit may drop quot;significantly quot; this year and may have trouble surviving on its own, according to testimony Monday by an Oracle executive.
Roy Disney, heading a dissident shareholder group at the Walt Disney Co., urged board members to accelerate the departure of chief executive Michael Eisner, who plans to resign in September 2006.
The organization will let fans help call the shots on an upcoming pay-per-view event.
Just when it appeared Michael D. Eisner, the chief of Disney, could begin enjoying his final years in charge, a lawsuit threatens to dredge up embarrassing details of his two-decade reign.
Enron Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ENRNQ.PK target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ENRNQ.PK</A>, desperate to meet profit targets, "parked" unwanted power generating barges at Merrill Lynch in a sham sale designed to be reversed, a prosecutor said on Tuesday in the first criminal trial of former executives at the fallen energy company.
The financial titans hope their co-branded cards win over better-heeled, prompt-paying consumers. It may not be so simple, however.
Earlier, SMFG said it offered the one-for-one share exchange ratio to UFJ Holdings as part of its bid to win the support of UFJ for its merger proposal over a rival offer from MTFG.
CHARLOTTE, NC Bank of America #39;s third-quarter profit meets Wall Street #39;s expectations with a continued boost in business from the FleetBoston Financial merger.
The Dow Jones industrial average lt;.DJI gt; rose 162.20 points, or 1.56 percent, to 10,590.22. The Standard amp; Poor #39;s 500 Index lt;.
Nowhere are the conflicts of interest for financial services conglomerates more potentially lucrative - and more obscure - than in the management of pension assets.
Ford Motor Company said today it was recalling about 474 000 Escape and Mazda Tribute sport utility vehicles (SUVs) globally because the accelerator cable may prevent the engine from returning to the idle position, which could increase stopping distance
ATA Holdings Corp., parent of ATA Airlines, the nation #39;s 10th-largest carrier, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization yesterday, becoming the third US airline operating under court protection.
British Airways top directors, including chief executive Rod Eddington, will be helping out at Heathrow airport today as the airline strives to avoid the flight cancellation chaos of the last few days.
There will be criticism over some aspects of Google #39;s highly publicized public stock offering, but it shouldn #39;t overshadow what the Internet search engine company managed to accomplish.
A QUARTER of a billion people in some of the worlds poorest and most populous countries in East Asia have been lifted out of extreme poverty by rapid economic growth over
No. 1 U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp. reported a 41 percent rise in quarterly profit on Tuesday, beating Wall Street forecasts, as demand soared for its combat aircraft and information technology services.
Too many house-rich Americans are borrowing money against their homes to play the stock market, brokerages regulator NASD warned on Wednesday.
Insurer and fund manager AMP has reported a better-than-expected profit for the first half on higher investment returns and improved margins after casting off its British operations.
news - research) did not open for trading Friday because a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee is meeting to review the small New York-based biotech #39;s experimental eye disease drug.
Time Warner Inc. is close to a deal with U.S. regulators in which the world's largest media group would pay about $750 million to settle allegations of accounting irregularities at its America Online division, The Washington Post reported on Tuesday.
Edward Zander always wanted to be in charge. After 25 years in high technology, including five years as a prominent second banana at Sun Microsystems, Zander got his wish. In January he became chief executive at Motorola, a fallen angel of mobile communications. It used to own the business. It doesn't anymore.
Bangladesh reports a 28 jump in exports in July, boosted by strong demand in Europe for clothing and other textiles.
Crude oil stockpiles in the US are at their lowest level since March, helping drive up the cost of a barrel of oil by almost $2.
Merck amp; Co.'s chairman and chief executive Raymond Gilmartin yesterday defended his firm's handling of earlier health warnings about Vioxx and said he was quot;stunned quot; when he learned two weeks ago that a Merck clinical trial had confirmed the drug could cause strokes and heart attacks.
Buoyed again by strong results at its financial-services arm, Ford swung to a profit of $266 million in the third quarter even though the loss at its worldwide automotive operations widened and its market share in the key US market fell by more than a
Consumer prices picked up momentum in September, especially hitting the pockets of people paying for medical care, education costs and filling up gas tanks.
New data showed US inflation in check, with consumer prices up a modest 0.1 percent in August, giving the Federal Reserve room go slow on boosting interest rates.
Lloyds TSB Group Plc, the UK #39;s fifth-largest bank by assets, said annual pretax profit may fall 23 percent, after earnings doubled last year on proceeds from the sale of its businesses in New Zealand and Brazil.
Crude near $53 a barrel level as Nigeria and Norway set strikes, bombings in Egypt, Paris. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Oil prices see-sawed Friday, getting closer to the $53 a barrel level, as labor strife in Nigeria
Health care products giant Johnson amp; Johnson #39;s $25.4 billion acquisition of Guidant Corp. could face a tough review from regulators because of their competition in the coronary stent market, analysts say.
US Treasurys retreated Monday, with a stabilizing oil market undercutting prices as well as speculation that higher energy costs will undermine the nation #39;s economic recovery.
Electronic Data Systems plans to cut 15,000 to 20,000 jobs over the next two years, as the struggling technology services giant tries to slash costs and regain its footing.
The Bank of England is set to keep interest rates on hold following the latest meeting of the its Monetary Policy Committee.
The U.K.'s National Health Service (NHS) has tapped IT researcher Gartner Inc. to provide market intelligence services as the health organization forges ahead with a mammoth, 5 billion ( $9.2 billion) project to upgrade its information technology infrastructure.
Costco Wholesale Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=COST.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">COST.O</A> reported higher-than-expected quarterly profit and a healthy rise in September sales on Thursday, sending its shares up 2 percent in pre-market trading.
Morgan Stanley, the second-biggest US securities firm, on Wednesday reported lower-than-expected third-quarter profit on lower fees from trading stocks and bonds.
The present policy of not allowing a foreign carrier to hold stake in domestic airlines has put a question mark on Virgin Atlantic chief Richard Branson #39;s plans to acquire equity in private Indian airline companies.
Editor #39;s Note: Published on page A1 of the Nov. 30, 2004 issue of the Philippine Daily Inquirer. BEATING most forecasts, the economy - as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP), the
Crude oil futures continued to climb Friday, reaching new record high as decline in the US inventory of heating oil and tight supplies still overshadowed theenergy markets.
Wanted: Brilliant economist. Must be politically savvy, trusted by Wall Street, a strong leader and consensus builder, cool in a crisis, able to calm world markets with a few words and likely to guide the economy into robust health in time for the 2008 presidential election.
The issue of drug advertising directly aimed at consumers is becoming political.
Britain and other European Union paymasters have renewed their opposition to EU Commission plans to increase the block #39;s spending in 2007-2013, Chancellor Gordon Brown says.
Alan Greenspan came to the home of the euro today and warned anxious Europeans to expect little relief from the relentless decline of the dollar against their currency.
HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--Hong Kong shares ended up Monday to close at their highest level in nearly 45 months, led by gains in property counters and blue-chip Hutchison Whampoa.
<p> </p><p> By Muklis Ali</p><p> JAKARTA (Reuters) - OPEC took the unprecedented step of urging the United States to tap its emergency crude reserves to bring down world oil prices.</p>
Bank of Ireland has announced that profits before tax were up 6 from 670m in the six months to the end of September last year to 713m this year.
Google has warned that the rapid revenue growth it experienced in the third quarter may not continue in the fourth quarter and beyond.
The Financial Times today won its action to strike out a record 230.5m libel damages claim from City brokers Collins Stewart that could have closed down the pink paper.
Delta Air Lines will cut up to 7,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its overall work force, during the next 18 months, company CEO Gerald Grinstein said Wednesday.
Office Depot Inc. on Tuesday warned of weaker-than-expected full-year profit because of the string of hurricanes in Florida and poor sales across North America and Europe, sending its stock down nearly 8 percent.
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN.A: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it set a two-for-one stock split and would buy back up to 10 percent of its shares, as the company #39;s cash levels
STEEL group Corus unveiled profits for the first time yesterday after soaring prices and a restructuring boosted the former British Steel business.
Britain-based HBOS says it will file a complaint to the European Commission against Spanish bank Santander Central Hispano (SCH) in connection with SCH #39;s bid to acquire British bank Abbey National
Clear Channel Communications Inc. #39;s third-quarter profit fell nearly 60 percent from the same period in 2003, which had been inflated by the nation #39;s largest radio station operator #39;s sale of its stake in a Spanish-language broadcasting
Kalamazoo-area Kmart customers say that store #39;s merger with Sears could mean stiff competition for retail powerhouses such as Wal-Mart.
and that's not necessarily a bad thing.
The United States Chamber of Commerce plans to spend roughly $10 million attacking trial lawyers, including Senator John Edwards, with television and mail advertisements.
Washington DC, has made the top ten list of most dangerous metropolitan areas in the United States. Camden, NJ, was named to the top spot, overtaking Detroit.
When Office Depot Inc. stores ran an electronics recycling drive last summer that accepted everything from cellphones to televisions, some stores were overwhelmed by the amount of e-trash they received.
The multimedia entertainment retailer doubles earnings despite poor book sales and video rentals.
CHEN JIULIN, the suspended chief executive of China Aviation Oil (CAO) in Singapore, has agreed to face a criminal investigation into the Beijing-backed groups $550 million (283 million) in derivatives trading losses.
A top Kremlin official said Thursday that the Yukos affair was quot;just the beginning quot; of the state #39;s battle against tax offenders, but should not inhibit foreigners from investing in Russia.
Robert Mondavi Corp. is entertaining an offer to buy the entire company, not just the luxury assets that were put on the auction block last month.
Web search leader Google Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">GOOG.O</A>, in its first earnings report as a publicly held company, on Thursday posted a profit of $52.0 million in the third quarter on strong Web search advertising.
Late on Friday, an United Airlines plane will arrive in Vietnam #39;s Ho Chi Minh City, marking the first time that a commercial American airliner will be landing in the country since the Vietnam War.
Tobacco company Reynolds American Inc., reporting earnings for the first time since the combination of RJ Reynolds and the US operations of Brown amp; Williamson Tobacco, posted a third-quarter profit of $339 million Monday.
Gallaher Group, which makes Silk Cut and Benson amp; Hedges cigarettes, yesterday announced a small rise in profits for the first half of the year but said it was facing tough trading outside Britain, especially in Germany and Ireland.
Record oil prices are creating headwinds for the U.S. economy but do not place its recovery at risk, Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President Robert McTeer said on Monday.
Boeing finally has a US launch customer for the 7E7 Dreamliner, but it is a virtually unknown carrier with just one 15-year-old plane in its fleet.
European stocks and the dollar rallied on Thursday as tumbling oil prices relieved investor fears about economic and earnings growth, while debt yields rose after stronger-than-expected German economic data.
Tokyo's Nikkei average edged down by the close on Friday with the market only slowly recovering from disappointment over machinery orders data a day earlier.
again - citing financial discipline. But even if Sony buys the studio, problems may emerge down the road.
The dollar was mostly stronger across the board on Tuesday as dealers pared back bets against the currency in predominantly technical trading.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will have to increase their funding of mortgages for low- and moderate-income home buyers, under a new rule the Department of Housing and Urban Development announced yesterday.
Bankrupt cable operator asks court to force payments, says family already admitted they owe money. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Adelphia Communications Corp.
AOL said it was intent on making travel an important part of its content expansion, which increasingly includes general Web properties that all Internet users can access as well as content just
Although a Sprint-Nextel combination is being characterized as a $36 billion merger of equals, published reports describe the emerging transaction as a purchase by Sprint.
Colgate-Palmolive Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CL.N</A> on Monday warned that earnings for the second half of the year will fall short of earlier forecasts due to higher marketing costs.
Pennies make the difference as the teams sell products on a shopping channel.
In a revelation that should give late-night comedians two or three days #39; worth of snark fodder, the headlines this morning startled us with the news that the world #39;s
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. posted fourth-quarter profit Wednesday that trounced Wall Street forecasts due to an unexpected revival of its investment banking business, a signal that could bode well for some of its rivals.
Bankrupt UAL Corp. (UALAQ.OB: Quote, Profile, Research) parent of United Airlines, on Thursday reported a narrower third-quarter net loss even though fuel costs rose more than 56 percent for the world #39;s No.
The publishers of Photoshop whip up another impossible looking earnings score.
Ford Motor Co. of Canada #39;s rivals will be watching closely today as the automaker makes a widely-anticipated announcement confirming its plans to build a $1-billion flexible manufacturing plant in Oakville, Ont.
Chrysler is recalling 240,000 minivans because their radios may short-circuit and cause a fire. Affected are Dodge Caravan and Chrysler Town and Country minivans from the 2001 and 2002 model years.
The New Jersey-based Accoona Corporation, an industry pioneer in artificial intelligence search technology, announced on Monday the launch of Accoona.
Kuwait plans to spend some $30 billion to $40 billion to upgrade its energy sector, and to increase oil production capacity 60 percent to four million barrels per day by 2020, top oil officials said in remarks published in local newspapers on Sunday.
p2pnet.net News:- European Union antitrust regulators will launch an investigation into whether or not the proposed Microsoft-Time Warner joint acquisition of a US DRM company will strengthen Microsoft #39;s quot;already leading position quot; in the DRM solutions
A Russian court has ruled that embattled oil firm Yukos must pay nearly all the fines and penalties connected to its 2001 tax bill.
U.S. stocks finished flat on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for a fourth time this year and indicated it would keep its moderate campaign of tightening credit instead of shifting to a more aggressive gear.
AirTran Airways has agreed to retain 3,200 Chicago-based employees when it acquires bankrupt ATA Airlines #39; local assets, Mayor Daley said Friday, paving the way for City Hall to approve the transfer of ATA #39;s 14 gates at Midway Airport.
An electronic device that senses when a vehicle is about to tip and automatically corrects steering, acceleration and braking can reduce single-vehicle crashes that include deadly rollovers, a safety group said Thursday.
The federal Securities Exchange Commission has asked General Motors, Ford and Navistar Corp., a maker of trucks and engines, to provide financial information about their pension and post-retirement healthcare plans.
For three years running, the fastest supercomputer had been NEC #39;s Earth Simulator in Japan. That was seen as a big challenge for the US computer industry.
PeopleSoft has no desires to get into making its own middleware, and IBM doesn #39;t want to get into the applications business, according to analyst Tad Piper of Piper Jaffray.
Five groups will compete for a contract to build a long-awaited bridge linking Sicily with mainland Italy, reports from Italy say.
Heating bills will still be higher this winter, but costs appear to have peaked last month.
Oil prices held steady on Thursday as concern over lean heating fuel supplies in the United States and Europe ahead of winter stemmed falls of nearly $10 since late October.
Euro Disney shares leapt on Wednesday after the French theme park operator clinched a long-awaited deal to restructure its debt, but analysts say big challenges loom for Chairman Andre Lacroix.
Hewlett-Packard Co. Monday said it bought back $1.3 billion in stock and announced a plan to buy back another $3 billion in shares over the next several months.
Drugstore chain Rite Aid Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=RAD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">RAD.N</A> on Thursday reported a quarterly profit, reversing a year-ago loss, on strong cash flow and a reduction in inventory-related expenses.
The Australian Council of Super Investors was one group that had urged News Corp to include major provisions of Australian corporate law in its proposed new US constitution in order to protect Australian shareholders.
US Airways is at risk of filing Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which has frequent fliers thinking about cashing in miles, Boston.com reports.
TOKYO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov. 8, 2004--Toshiba Corporation a annonc ce jour qu #39;elle intentait un procs Hynix Semiconductor au Japon et aux Etats-Unis pour contrefaon des brevets relatifs aux mmoires semiconducteurs.
Investigators are closely scrutinizing the role of major international banks in the meltdown of Parmalat, the scandal-ridden dairy group based in Italy, the Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.
Cancel the limo. Put down the dining guides and leave your overcoat in the closet. A power breakfast or lavish business dinner is just an elevator ride away.
Oil prices held at $50 a barrel Wednesday ahead of weekly U.S. inventory data that is expected to show a decline in crude stocks after Hurricane Ivan hit Gulf of Mexico production.
The McDonald #39;s Corporation, the world #39;s largest restaurant chain, announced yesterday that Charles H. Bell was resigning as chief executive to focus on his battle with cancer, and
Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson has said the group is in talks with a Chinese company over setting up a mobile phone service in mainland China.
U.S. stocks rose on Tuesday, getting a boost from some strong retail earnings, lower oil prices and two separate economic reports that showed inflationary pressure was held in check and U.S. housing starts rebounded sharply in July.
National City Corp. (NCC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday said third-quarter profit rose a greater-than-expected 72 percent, helped by a recent acquisition and its consumer and corporate banking businesses.
Molson Inc., seeking to overcome opposition to its planned C $3.8 billion ( $3.16 billion) merger with Adolph Coors Co. to create the world #39;s fifth-biggest brewer, said it will pay minority shareholders a special dividend.
Stocks rose sharply yesterday, extending their rally for a second session as investors expressed relief over plummeting oil prices following a government report that showed a buildup in crude inventories.
THE All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on Saturday called off its seven-day strike after finalising an agreement with the Government on the contentious issue of service tax and the various demands including tax deducted at source (TDS), scrapping
Sprint Corp. announced a multiyear agreement with the countrys eighth-largest cable operator Mediacom Communications Corp., enabling Mediacom to provide telephony services in nearly all of its markets currently covering 2.7 million homes in 23 states.
Lauren, 11, saunters nonchalantly past a Discovery Channel store and a Gymboree clothing store at the mall. Then suddenly, the girl's eyes light up and she pulls her mother into an Apple Computer Inc. retail shop.
The news media were fascinated by Martha Stewart #39;s surprise request yesterday. She said she wanted to put the entire ImClone Systems (Nasdaq: IMCL) mess behind
The bitter battle within Lazard over a proposed initial public offering reached a turning point yesterday as the firm #39;s chairman gave his consent with one colossal
A technological weapon against unwanted ''spam quot; e-mails that has been embraced by leading Internet companies doesn't work as well as its developers had hoped, according to a new study.
Unlike recent financial scandals, issues raised by Fannie Mae's regulators pertain to unwieldy accounting rules that are open to widely divergent interpretations.
Symantec Corp. #39;s reported interest in acquiring Veritas Software Corp. for more than $13 billion would represent the computer security giant #39;s biggest step yet beyond its core
Poultry producer Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday said it is being hurt by lower wholesale prices and higher grain costs in the
Merck amp; Co. Inc. (MRK.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , whose earnings are being hurt by the withdrawal of its arthritis drug Vioxx, said on Tuesday it has increased the number of jobs to be cut by year-end to 5,100 from 4,400.
SAN DIEGO ---- The credit rating of the city of San Diego was temporarily suspended Monday by Standard amp; Poor #39;s, one of the major rating services of municipal finances.
The U.S. banking system, having weathered a recession and the bankruptcies of several big corporations, is in very good shape, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Tuesday.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. plans to invest 25 trillion won (US $24 billion) in building new semiconductor production lines by 2010, the company said Monday.
Paul A. Samuelson, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, is dissenting from conventional wisdom on the benefits of globalization.
Germany's Bayer AG <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BAYG.DE target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BAYG.DE</A> has agreed to plead guilty and pay a $4.7 million fine for taking part in a conspiracy to fix the prices of synthetic rubber, the U.S. Justice Department said on Wednesday.
The US-based oral care and personal products company Colgate-Palmolive Company is drawing a blueprint to restructure its operations.
BRITISH telecoms group Cable and Wireless has agreed to sell its Japanese unit to internet service provider Softbank for 72.4 million ( $178.
Preliminary investigations in New York, Connecticut and California suggest that insurance companies frequently pay insurance brokers and agents undisclosed compensation - including cash, loans, stock and exotic trips - for steering health, automobile and other retail insurance business to them, state officials told Congress yesterday.
Despite a jump of 19 per cent in world air traffic so far this year, airlines are expected to lose as much as $4 billion US in 2004 due to high fuel costs, says the International Air Transport Association.
SUDDENLY, The News Corporation Inc chairman Rupert Murdoch and the Murdoch family are in a similar position to most other listed company management teams.
The removal of painkiller Vioxx shows no drug is perfect. It is linked to heart attacks and strokes, but it has helped many. Patients must evaluate medications more carefully than ever.
Business India: Mumbai, Oct 25 : Reliance Industries Ltd., India #39;s largest private business conglomerate, Monday reported a better-than-expected 38.
Housing starts rebounded sharply in July, making up almost all the ground lost in a June slump by posting their largest monthly percentage gain since September 2002, a report from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed.
The yen rose against the dollar on Friday despite data showing Japanese growth came to a virtual standstill in the third quarter, while the dollar was supported versus the euro by verbal intervention from Europe.
The Board members of the Californian state pension fund, Calpers (California Public Employees Retirement System), are scheduled to begin the process of selecting a new President today, after Sean Harrigan was
GEORGETOWN, Delaware Michael Ovitz, the former president of Walt Disney, has vigorously defended his 14-month tenure, saying his efforts to expand and improve the company were undercut at nearly every turn by recalcitrant senior executives and the man who
The price of oil jumped to another high on Monday, in part because of dramatic disruptions caused by hurricanes whipping through the Gulf of Mexico.
Shares of auto parts retailer Pep Boys-Manny, Moe amp; Jack (PBY.N: Quote, Profile, Research) fell 10 percent on Thursday, a day after it said earnings dropped 48 percent last quarter on more struggles in its service operations, missing
Zack Diarra, the owner of Timbuktu Fashions, had been "scared to death" of Wal-Mart, worried the nation's biggest retailer would undercut his clothing prices and wipe out his eight-month-old business.
Egypt and Israel sign a trade protocol with the US, allowing Egyptian goods made with the support of Israel free access to American markets.
The 11th meeting of finance ministers of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC) concluded on Friday, highlighting the role of governments and financial institutions
The boss of Boeing Co. insisted Thursday that he is not looking for a trans-Atlantic spat in a dispute over subsidies for Airbus, but also said that aid for the rival aircraft maker #39;s new programs should stop.
Three former employees at fund manager Amvescap yesterday agreed to pay penalties totalling $3.34m (1.9m) to settle charges relating to the US mutual funds scandal.
Media giant Time Warner Inc. will pay fines of $210 million under an agreement with the US government to be announced on Wednesday to settle charges that its America
SAN JOSE, Calif. Semiconductor company Intel says it has made a breakthrough development in shrinking the size of chips. The Santa Clara-based company announced today it has created a fully functional 70 megabit
This column gets results. A few months ago I suggested that Internet users would do well to give up on Microsoft Corp.'s buggy and insecure Internet Explorer browser and check out some well-crafted alternatives. And so you have, in a big way.
Faced with a growing clamor for better disclosure, drug manufacturers said yesterday that they will begin a voluntary system of publicly posting the
Halliburton Co. said yesterday that it may sell its Kellogg Brown #38; Root subsidiary, the largest government contractor in Iraq. Even though revenue soared from the unit, profit lagged and the dollars brought controversy over whether the company once run by Dick Cheney overcharged the government and mishandled some of the services it provides.
The Boeing Co. expects to sell its Wichita, Kan., fuselage and components plant by the end of 2004, Chief Executive Harry Stonecipher said yesterday.
The US retail giant Wal-Mart investedone million US dollars to establish China #39;s first retail research center at Beijing #39;s prestigious Tsinghua University.
The parent company of Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy plans to test a new idea for a clothing chain targeting women over 35. In a statement, Gap Incorporated says it will try out its new
Williams-Sonoma Inc., operator of home furnishing chains including Pottery Barn, said third-quarter earnings rose 19 percent, boosted by store openings and catalog sales.
Retailer Saks Inc. on Friday said it will close eight of its luxury Saks Fifth Avenue stores and three of its lower-price Off 5th stores, resulting in a loss of 700 jobs at those stores.
Kerr-McGee Chemical LLC said Wednesday that it will stop producing titanium dioxide pigment sulfate at its Savannah, Ga., plant by the end of September, affecting a quarter of the work force there.
On the way to his vision of an "ownership society," President Bush picks a big fight over Social Security
Soaring fuel costs continued to cast a shadow over British Airways today, despite better-than-expected half-year results from the airline.
Java lovers, hold onto your nickels and dimes. Months after retail coffee-shop chains such as Starbucks raised the cost of their caffeine concoctions, the price of coffee is still on the rise.
General Electric Co.'s sensing business is setting up its world headquarters in Billerica, as it consolidates three area plants into one.
PARIS: Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan said in an interview published on Thursday that he is looking to President Jacques Chirac to reassure Ankara over Frances backing for its bid to join the European Union.
Oil prices flew back above $54 a barrel on Wednesday as a fresh fall in US heating oil stocks stoked worries over winter supplies.
Six former Enron and Merrill Lynch executives were accused Tuesday of disguising a $7 million loan as a sale of energy-producing barges to quot;help Enron out of a jam quot; and artificially boost its revenue.
Securities and Exchange Commission chief accountant Donald Nicolaisen has requested that the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) restate its financials from 2001 through mid-2004 to eliminate the use of hedge accounting.
U.S. stocks opened near unchanged on Friday as oil prices hovered above $44 a barrel while drug company Pfizer Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PFE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">PFE.N</A> shares tumbled after it released an research update.
U.S. stocks fell on Thursday, led by a decline in the technology sector following a batch of sales warnings from chip makers and a jump in oil prices to nearly $43 a barrel.
Congressional Democrats were deeply suspicious when Republican leaders selected Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin to take over the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office in early 2003.
Henry Schein Inc. (HSIC.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Friday said it expects to begin shipping a flu vaccine on time in early October and reaffirmed its forecast for 2004.
U.S. stock futures pointed to a slightly lower market open on Monday as investors pause after a three-day rally last week, with interest rates and a weakening dollar gaining focus now that the presidential election is over.
Beleaguered pharmaceutical giant Merck amp; Co. Inc. has appointed a special committee of board members and a retired federal judge to review the company #39;s actions before it
Freddie Mac <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">FRE.N</A>, the second-largest U.S. home financing company, on Friday revised its 2003 net income downward by $75 million to provide for a reserve for legal expenses, according to its annual report.
Struggling US Airways (UAIR) has asked its pilots to accept a 16.5 pay cut while giving them the chance to recoup some of the money by flying more.
Microsoft is stopping people getting hold of a key security update via net-based file- sharing systems.
The United States and the European Union are unlikely to reach a new civil aircraft pact covering Boeing Co. and Airbus, an EU official said on Thursday, boosting the chances the two sides will take their subsidy countercharges to the World Trade Organization.
The dollar rallied from new lows in European morning trade on Friday as a Chinese official backtracked from earlier claims that China had started to shift
The US Chamber of Commerce filed a lawsuit Thursday against the Securities and Exchange Commission, seeking to overturn a rule requiring mutual funds #39; boards of directors to have independent chairs.
New Delhi, Nov. 8: General Electric Capital International Services (Gecis), the global business process operations of General Electric, has offloaded a 60 per cent stake for about $500 million to two private
Vodafone yesterday began its campaign for dominance of Europe #39;s Christmas market for mobile phones with nine new handsets it will use to provide 3G services offering everything from video calls to downloadable games and television clips.
FRANKFURT : Labour conflict looks set to boil over in the German automobile sector in the coming weeks as car makers such as Volkswagen and Opel seek to impose rigorous belt-tightening measures as an answer to chronically weak demand.
George Bush #39;s foreign policy is simple: don #39;t mess with America. The same, it appears, applies to economic policy as well.
Martha Stewart may be living in prison cell basics, but outside her company soldiers on. Now, it sees a future in furniture. The jailed diva #39;s company rolled out additions to its Signature furniture
For Putnam Investments, the end of the Jeffrey W. Greenberg reign at Marsh amp; McLennan Cos. is bittersweet.
Riding on record revenue across all its business segments, Hewlett- Packard Co. delivered surprisingly strong financial reports for its fiscal fourth quarter, with profit up 26.5 percent.
The joint venture between Korea #39;s LG Electronics and the Netherlands #39; Philips (NYSE: PHG) reported an increase in year-on-year sales for its fiscal third quarter (up 12).
The U.S. economy continued to grow in the early fall despite being buffeted by rising energy costs and hurricanes, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday, providing its last snapshot of business conditions before Election Day.
Google?s initial public offering could hit the Nasdaq Stock Market as early as Wednesday if US securities regulators let the Internet search engine close its auction on Tuesday.
US banks are feasting on the fast-growing Texas market, where a rapidly growing population and its ability to lure new businesses have experts predicting competition for deals there will become more intense.
Merck amp; Co. officials said Tuesday they intend to defend aggressively their handling of the painkiller Vioxx against claims by patients who say they were harmed by the now-withdrawn drug.
REGULATORS in the US moved to seize the bulk of Lord Black of Crossharbours wealth yesterday and remove his power as controlling shareholder of Hollinger International, the newspaper publisher.
US DOMESTIC air travellers could be surfing the web by 2006 via government-approved technology that allows people access to high-speed internet connections while they fly.
NEW YORK : Oil prices retreated in New York and rose marginally in London as worries about the impact of Hurricane Frances subsided, traders said.
Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. said Tuesday that Sirius radio will be available as a factory-installed option in the 2006 BMW 3 Series beginning next summer.
European stocks slipped and the dollar softened on Friday as the rise in crude oil prices toward $50 a barrel raised the prospect of slower economic growth, which supported bond prices.
General Motors Corp. has pledged to avoid plant closures and layoffs in Europe as it seeks to return its money-losing European operations to profitability, worker representatives said Wednesday.
Growth in the vast U.S. services sector slowed in September, with a significant decrease in prices paid but a solid employment component, according to an industry survey published on Tuesday.
Lehman Brothers agreed to pay $222.5 million to settle an Enron securities class action suit, the University of California said Friday.
The European Commission has given the green light to the proposed Oracle acquisition of PeopleSoft, European Union Competition commissioner Mario Monti said.
A new mobile phone network is launched in Libya, bringing competition to the sector for the first time.
Mr Kapil Sibal, Minister for Science and Technology; Mr Kenneth I. Juster, Under Secretary of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, US Department of Commerce; and Mr Harris Miller, President, Information Technology Association of America; at The India
Stocks moved higher in a late-session buying surge yesterday, as oil prices stepped back from their highs and investors shrugged off mixed economic data, focusing with renewed optimism on the government #39;s upcoming jobs report.
The U.S. economy may lose a step to record high oil prices but concerns over inflation are likely to keep the Federal Reserve on a steady course of gradually raising interest rates, analysts say.
U.S. drivers could again face $2 a gallon gasoline now that crude oil has topped a record $50 a barrel, government experts said on Tuesday.
A strengthening economy has been good news for office-supply retailers, as increased hiring means rising sales of sticky notes, pens, and other cubicle sundries.
Embattled Russian oil giant Yukos is set to learn if a US bankruptcy court will try to block the sale of its main production unit this weekend.
Gold Fields has formally announced that its proposed merger terms with Toronto-listed IAMGold, due for the vote on December 7, are unchanged but that Gold Fields will contribute $200 million (in US dollars) less in cash to
International insurance services firm Crawford amp; Co. said Friday that it received a subpoena from the office of New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer requesting information in connection with the office #39;s investigation.
U.S. stocks made gains in light volume on Friday as investors were encouraged about the prospects for corporate profits after oil prices eased from their peak.
LONDON Airbus has predicted that an average of 830 passenger aircraft will be built each year for the next two decades and that the new Airbus jumbo A380 will be so successful that Boeing will be forced to develop a competitor.
The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday let stand a lower-court ruling that telemarketers' rights to free speech are not violated by the government's nationwide do-not-call list.
US trade negotiators will deliver a firm message to their European counterparts this morning in Brussels, Belgium: The Bush administration wants to scrap a 12-year-old aerospace trade pact and craft a wholly new accord that bars government loans, two
(CBS) When the pharmaceutical giant Merck pulled its blockbuster pain medication Vioxx off the market in late September, it became the largest prescription drug recall in history.
The UK's first stand-alone Islamic High Street bank, aimed at the UK's 1.8 million Muslims opens in London on Wednesday.
Pilots at Delta Air Lines overwhelmingly approved a new five-year contract with $1 billion in annual concessions sought by the airline.
HONG KONG (Dow Jones)--China Petroleum amp; Chemical Corp. (SNP), China #39;s second-largest oil producer, said its first-half net profit rose 51, on increased domestic demand and higher oil prices.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average failed three times this year to exceed its previous high and fell to about 10,000 each time, most recently a week ago.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao signalled the country was in no rush to reform the yuan, and questioned why more hadn #39;t been done to stop the dollar #39;s slide, the strongest
J.C. Penney Co. Inc. named a former chairman and chief executive of both Macy's and luxury retailer LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, to lead the department store company, replacing Allen Questrom.
Research In Motion (RIMM), maker of the popular BlackBerry wireless e-mail device, got mixed news in court Tuesday - and a worst-case scenario that would stop BlackBerry sales in the USA.
PeopleSoft Inc. on Monday agreed to a sweetened $10.3 billion buyout by rival software maker Oracle Corp., relenting after a 18-month takeover saga marked by personal insults, courtroom battles and the ouster of PeopleSoft's chief executive.
The US economy experienced another month of disappointing job growth in September, adding to the trend of lackluster hiring that has made this one of the weakest labor market recoveries in modern history.
Molson Inc., Canada #39;s biggest brewer, and Adolph Coors Co., agreed to pay Molson shareholders a special dividend of C $381 million ( $315 million) as part of their proposed merger in an effort to win over investors.
news - research) increased fourth-quarter revenue by 13 and beat Wall Street #39;s earnings expectations by a penny, the maker of storage networking gear reported after the close Monday.
The U.S. economy has escaped a recent soft patch and seems to be picking up steam, Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan said on Wednesday in remarks economists saw as cementing a September rate rise.
PITTSBURGH Mylan Laboratories again reiterated its commitment to the estimated four (B) billion dollar acquisition of brand-name drug maker King Pharmaceuticals despite Wall Street financier Carl Icahn upping his stake in the company.
London Stock Exchange Plc, Europe #39;s third-largest exchange by market value, said it received a 1.35 billion-pound ( $2.6 billion) takeover offer from Deutsche Boerse AG, the second attempt
New US applications for unemployment benefits dropped last week partly as a result of Hurricane Charley, the Labor Department reported Thursday.
Continental Airlines (NYSE:CAL) today announced the election of Jeff Smisek, executive vice president and president-elect of Continental Airlines, Inc.
GREECE fiddled its way into the European single currency and should not have been allowed to join, according to the European Commission and other members of the euro.
In the old days in Japan, a merger between two banks would have been quietly brokered behind closed doors. But the current clash between two major Japanese banks over competing
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn on Tuesday weighed into the bidding fray for Hollywood Entertainment Corp. (HLYW.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , saying he supports a merger between the No.
The U.S. dollar steadied against the yen and euro on Monday after suffering sharp losses on weaker-than expected job growth figures that raised questions about the need for further U.S. rate rises this year.
Google Inc., the most popular Internet search engine, raised $1.67 billion on Wednesday in its long-awaited IPO after slashing the price and size of an offer beset by missteps and poor market conditions.
As co-stars of an elite, wireless-oriented tech show they were improbable indeed: A weed whacker, a blender and a boombox. Their decibel assault at this year #39;s 6th annual DEMOmobile show in San Diego was the
The clinical psychologist from Saginaw, Mich., convinced his favorite wineries, tiny California operations, to ship him a precious few bottles each year.
PepsiCo Inc., the world #39;s No. 2 soft- drink maker, said third-quarter earnings increased 35 percent, boosted by sales in Asia and lower taxes.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--Australia #39;s economic growth likely slowed sharply in the third quarter, economists said Monday, with data showing a record current account deficit and foreign debt.
U.S. machine tool demand in August rose sharply from a year earlier as manufacturers ratcheted-up purchases amid signs the economy is improving, two industry trade groups said in a report released on Sunday.
The National Labor Relations Board has ruled that employers may post regulations in the workplace that critics contend will discourage workers from organizing bargaining units or engaging in other union activities.
Blaming shrinking sales to key automotive customers, Visteon Corp. told its 8,300 white-collar workers Thursday that it plans to offer buyouts to a quot;significant quot; number of employees by the end of the year.
A suit against a large hedge fund filed by Carl C. Icahn, the billionaire financier, could shine a bright light on the largely unregulated hedge fund industry.
The Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (SAIC) will pump an estimated 1 billion-plus into the company in exchange for a majority share, if the Chinese Government gives the go-ahead in the New Year.
MOSCOW Directors at Gazprom, the world #39;s biggest natural gas company, are united and ready to vote on a proposed bid for Yukos #39;s main production unit, Yuganskneftegaz, officials at the gas company said on Thursday, as the company seeks to create an oil
The dollar extended its losses on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates as expected but signaled that both inflation and inflation expectations were easing.
BCE Inc. is selling most of its minority stake in Manitoba Telecom Services for a total of $578 million, with MTS buying back more than half of the shares and the rest sold on the open market, BCE announced Wednesday.
Invesco Funds Group will become part of a sister mutual-fund family, ending a 74-year-old Denver institution and opening a door to changing the name of the city #39;s football stadium.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) shares fell 3 percent early Monday after the world #39;s biggest retailer cut its November sales forecast, casting a shadow over hopes for a bumper holiday shopping season.
The Association of Flight Attendants said its union leaders unanimously authorized a strike vote on Tuesday that will begin immediately at bankrupt US carriers, including United Airlines and US Airways.
A Waterford Township house fire claimed the lives of a veteran police officer and his family over the weekend.
US House and Senate negotiators agreed to replace a $50 billion tax break for US exporters ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization with a $76.
Eighteen months after it began, the bitter and bizarre takeover battle is over. The new challenge: Make this $10.3 billion deal work.
As the second employee of InfoSpace, Jean-Remy Facq saw the value of his stock inflate and then collapse. Now he's suing in federal court in Seattle for a #36;4.5 million refund of 1999 federal income tax. He's just one of 200 tech workers who have hired Seattle tax lawyer/CPA Brian G. Isaacson in the hope his novel theories will help them slash old (and sometimes unpaid) tax bills from their exercise of stock options for shares that later tanked.
By Hugh Williamson in Berlin and Richard Milne in Rsselsheim. The mood at Opel #39;s Rssel-heim factory near Frankfurt was as chilly yesterday as the weather.
NEW YORK (Dow Jones/AP) _ The stock of Star Gas Partners LP plunged 80 percent Monday after the distributor of heating oil and propane said its inability to pass on the full impact of high heating oil prices to customers may lead to bankruptcy.
Stock markets rose Friday morning, helped by improved profit guidance from Ford Motor Co., while indications of tame inflation and low interest rates sent the Canadian dollar tumbling.
China remained an attractive destination for foreign investors who poured in 43.6 billion dollars during the first eight months of the year, 18.8 percent more than the same period last year, the government said.
U.S. construction spending fell unexpectedly by 0.4 percent in November, as a cooling in residential construction overpowered a small rise in public spending, a government report showed on Monday.
Natural Resources Minister Yury Trutnev said Saturday that Yukos #39; main production unit, Yuganskneftegaz, could lose its licenses over what he termed quot;rather serious quot; technical violations.
Following a lifetime of helping people through his church work, a $575,000 gift from the Rev. Donald Bartone will help renew that dedication nearly two years after his death.
LONDON : Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co (P and O) - the ports, shipping and logistics group - announced sweeping cuts to its ferry operations to refocus the business in the face of competition from low-cost airlines.
Boston Scientific Corp. violated its agreement with an Israeli company and acted in quot;bad faith quot; when it set up a secret stent-making operation in Ireland, according to a federal judge who ordered the companies to reach a settlement.
Citigroup Inc. #39;s top Japan executive Douglas Peterson told lawmakers he will improve employee training to help fix compliance breaches that cost the company its private banking license in the country.
Two units of mutual fund company Franklin Resources Inc. agreed to pay #36;20 million in civil penalties to settle charges that they used fund assets to pay for marketing and failed to adequately tell investors, federal regulators said on Monday.
Circuit City Stores Inc., the No. 2 US electronics chain, said yesterday its second-quarter loss narrowed to $11.9 million as the company sold more plasma-screen televisions and benefited from the acquisition of a Canadian retailer.
A bullish profit outlook from Ford Motor Co. sent stocks higher Friday as investors looked past a disappointing report on consumer sentiment and new accounting problems at Qualcomm Inc.
Misconduct in the U.S. mutual fund industry is not limited to fund share trading; it's not even limited to funds, say market regulators.
Ford Motor #39;s (F) striking market-share plunge should be over within six months, and the company is banking on new products to regain share while allowing it to cut back incentives, CEO Bill Ford said Wednesday in an interview with USA TODAY.
Standard amp; Poor #39;s said on Tuesday it may cut the corporate credit rating of The Interpublic Group of Cos. (IPG.N: Quote, Profile, Research) citing growing concerns over senior
MontrealWith its stock in a tailspin and the prospect of cash-strapped US airlines bailing out on future jet orders, aerospace giant Bombardier Inc.
US claims for jobless benefits jumped last week, while consumer spending was unexpectedly flat in August as shoppers closed their wallets after splashing out the previous month, the government said on Thursday.
Italian airline company, Alitalia (ALI.FSE), has reached an agreement with eight trade unions to support the plans to split the company into two separate entities, while the ninth and last union is expected to
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's intended transformation of the Army into a quick, mobile force has started to rub against the daily demands of patching enough tanks and trucks together to keep fighting the war.
OIL continues to set new records by the day. Last Friday, it was in whispering distance of $50 a barrel as Iraq and the woes of the giant Russian producer, Yukos, kept markets on tenterhooks.
The Salvation Army of Minnesota and North Dakota is preparing for a fight to reach its fundraising goals this holiday season after Target Stores announced this fall that it won #39;t allow bellringers outside its doors.
Emisphere warrants close attention, although massive profits are not in the near-term cards.
Penalties imposed on Microsoft by the European Union are unlikely to rein in the software giant and could result in higher costs for other software developers, regulators said on Friday.
The sounds of the holiday season are a joyous cacophony of loving banter, caroling and children #39;s laughter. Thanks to the classic film quot;It #39;s a Wonderful Life, quot; everyone knows that every time a bell rings, an angel gets its wings.
U.S. power company Scana Corp <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SCG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">SCG.N</A> on Friday said quarterly profit fell, on litigation costs and a writedown related to an investment in a telecommunications business.
WAL-MART Stores, the worlds largest retailer and owner of Asda supermarkets, said sales at stores open at least a year rose 2.4 per cent in September, slightly higher than its preliminary report but still towards the low end of its forecast range.
ACROSS the Euro-zone last week there were tell-tale signs of panic setting in. To the evident worries of the euro being forced to further record highs against the dollar, were added grim evidence by the weekend of a sharp economic slowdown.
OPEC oil producers said on Thursday that Friday's ministerial meeting would focus on cutting back oversupply to support falling prices and that producers would have to reduce output quotas early next year.
Indian-born billionaire Lakshmi Mittal has agreed to acquire the US #39;s International Steel Group for about $4.5 billion (R27.
Nortel Networks Corp., North America #39;s biggest maker of phone equipment, will pare 3,250 jobs, 250 fewer than it predicted last month, as it reduces other costs including real estate.
Germany's financial watchdog said on Thursday it was looking into recent trading by U.S. financial services group Citigroup <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=C.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">C.N</A> in European government bond and derivative markets, but had not started a formal probe.
US consumer confidence sank in August while Chicago-area business activity slowed, according to reports on Tuesday that added to worries the economy #39;s patch of sluggish growth may last beyond the summer.
It #39;s finally over. Business-software maker PeopleSoft (PSFT) agreed to be acquired by rival Oracle (ORCL) for $10.3 billion Monday, ending 18
Over the past three decades the Federal Government has poured three-quarters of a trillion dollars into financial aid for college students. Back in 1971, the annual total for grants, loans, tax breaks and other aid was the equivalent, in today's dollars, of #36;18 billion. It's now running at a #36;65-billion-a-year clip.
BellSouth's approach to business has been stable, disciplined, anything but flashy. But now the company is slowly shedding its conservative approach.
The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in the summer as a big rebound in auto sales offset weakness from an exploding trade deficit, soaring oil prices and the Florida hurricanes, the government reported Friday.
Drugstore chain Rite Aid Corp. on Thursday reported a quarterly profit, reversing a year-ago loss, on strong cash flow and a reduction in inventory-related expense.
YESTERDAY THE STATE OF OHIO sued Best Buy for alleged unfair and deceptive business practices. Ohio state is claiming the company repackaged used goods and sold them as if they were new, as well as not honouring rebates, refunds, exchange programs and ...
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday cut its earnings forecast after making a wrong bet on the direction of grain prices and demand for chicken
The strength of oil prices is poised to exacerbate an airline quot;bloodbath quot; long predicted for this winter, Ryanair has said, announcing a profits ahead of City forecasts.
Motorcycle maker Harley-Davidson Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HDI.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">HDI.N</A> roared to record quarterly earnings on Wednesday, boosted by more efficient operations and demand for its new models.
U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow on Friday said higher oil prices were a risk to global growth, but were unlikely to trigger a recession.
President Bush on Friday signed into law a measure authorizing an #36;800 billion increase in the credit limit of the United States, the White House said.
Shares in a range of area retailers dipped Monday on disappointing Thanksgiving sales data from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. In addition, ShopperTrak, which tallies sales results from 30,000 stores nationwide, said
U.S. oil major ConocoPhillips won an auction for a 7.6 percent state stake in Russian oil giant LUKOIL with a bid of #36;1.988 billion, the Russian property fund said on Wednesday.
Harley's latest numbers are a lot like the bikes: powerful underneath but not too speedy.
Time Warner said today it is establishing a $500 million legal reserve stemming from the on-going federal probes of its America Online unit and plans to restate the accounting for its stake
The possible charges relate to the creation and operation of an internal transfer agent unit to serve primarily the Smith Barney family of funds.
UBS said Tuesday that it would buy Charles Schwab #39;s market making, research and institutional trading unit for $265 million in cash.
Honeywell announced late Wednesday it has filed a lawsuit against Apple, and 33 other electronics companies claiming claiming infringement of a liquid crystal display (LCD) patent.
Google #39;s motion to dismiss legal proceedings brought against it by insurance company Geico was granted on Wednesday by a US District Court judge.
ChevronTexaco Corp.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CVX.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CVX.N</A>, the No. 2 U.S. oil company, on Friday reported a rise in quarterly profit, pumped up by record oil and gas prices and gains on asset sales.
Treasuries prices turned lower on Tuesday in a classic buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact reaction as a reading on U.S. consumption proved not as weak as some had been betting.
HARMONY has voted its 10,8 of Gold Fields shares against a planned reverse-listing of Gold Fields assets outside southern Africa into IAMGOLD of Canada, Harmony director Ferdi Dippenaar said yesterday.
Seeking to establish the medium as a mass market form of entertainment instead of a niche technology, the game industry has taken the playbook of the movie business.
The founders of the PBHG mutual funds agreed to pay $160 million in restitution and civil fines, and to accept a lifetime ban from the securities industry to resolve allegations they facilitated improper trading in the funds
Crude oil futures continued to retreat from record levels of more than $54 US a barrel Wednesday as traders nervously monitored developments in strike-hit Nigeria and recovery efforts in the Gulf of Mexico.
Celebrity fashion is booming. These webpreneurs are bringing it to main street
Shift-work sleep disorder - a condition that leaves tens of thousands exhausted, unable to concentrate and struggling to get proper rest - is of concern for workers on the overnight shift.
World oil prices fell nearly $3 a barrel on Wednesday, shedding 6 percent, as a larger-than-expected build in U.S. heating stocks soothed worries about a winter fuel deficit.
High-flying oil prices held above $54 a barrel on Tuesday as concern lingered over the thin state of heating oil supplies ahead of the northern winter.
France and Germany appeared headed for another industrial row on Monday over a French plan to merge Airbus parent EADS with French defense group
Michael Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DIS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DIS.N</A>, on Thursday said it was "stupid" to appear on a national television show in 1996 to show his support for Michael Ovitz and conceded he was less than candid with the public during the interview.
Swiss mining conglomerate Xstrata said Monday it offered to buy the entire issued share capital of major Australian mining company WMC Resources for A $7.4 billion ( $5.79 billion) in cash.
BRITAINS only remaining mass market car maker seemed certain last night to pass into foreign control after MG Rover admitted merger talks with a Chinese firm were at an advanced stage.
Intel Corp. #39;s board of directors on Thursday tapped Paul Otellini, who has been with the company for 30 years, to replace Craig Barrett as chief executive officer in May.
Jeroen van der Veer, chief executive of Royal Dutch/ Shell, has opened the door to future deals with Gazprom, the Russian gas group, by welcoming its rapid expansion into the oil sector.
Commercial truck maker Navistar International Corp. on Monday said it expects higher fourth-quarter earnings and revenue as the recovering U.S. economy spurs orders for its trucks and engines.
Driven by demand for flash memory chips used in cell phones, Intel's profits rose as it struggled to overcome weak PC sales, growing inventory, product missteps and stiff competition.
Toll Brothers Inc., a US builder of luxury homes, said on Wednesday third-quarter profit rose 56 percent, easily beating analysts forecasts, helped by record home-building revenue.
The Coca-Cola Co. is lowering its long-term targets for earnings and sales volume growth amid continuing weakness in key markets including North America. But the world's biggest soft drink company also plans to boost spending on marketing its core brands.
Three UK bankers must wait until the middle of October to see if they will be extradited to the US over an Enron-related case.
Consumers borrowed more freely in September, especially when it came to racking up charges on their credit cards, the Federal Reserve reported Friday.
LONDON : Oil prices fell slightly in opening deals on hopes of an easing of tensions in Nigeria #39;s key oil producing region, traders said.
Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Larry Ellison aimed his famously barbed tongue outside the technology industry Wednesday, taunting the owners of the San Francisco 49ers for refusing to sell the quot;worst team in football.
Continental Airlines Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CAL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CAL.N</A> said on Thursday it plans to cut about 425 management and clerical jobs through staff reductions, attrition and the elimination of unfilled positions to save about $200 million in pretax costs.
Late-stage drugs are crucial for a company beset with patent losses.
Rome, 15 Dec - The special commissioner for Parmalat Enrico Bondi is ready quot;to present over the next few days legal action seeking to recover over a billion dollars from dozens of Italian banks which aided the company #39;s finances before its
Tokyo's Nikkei average fell 0.46 percent by late Tuesday, setting the stage for an eighth straight day of losses after oil prices topped $50 a barrel, fanning concerns about Japan Inc's prospects.
Verizon Communications Inc., the nation #39;s largest telephone company, announced yesterday it is digging up streets and stringing wire in six states, including Washington #39;s Maryland and Virginia
Securities regulators are suing the management team behind the rapid rise and fall of online credit lender NextCard Inc., alleging the company #39;s top executives cooked the books and then scrambled to sell their stock before the ruse unraveled into
Deutsche Telekom, the largest European phone company, on Thursday raised its forecast for net income in 2004 and said it planned to pay its first dividend in three years, after its third-quarter profit more than doubled.
Special guest Oct. 11-24 on quot;Radio Playbill quot; is Michael Kantor, who has spent much of the last decade on an epic project, the six-part TV miniseries, quot;Broadway: The American Musical, quot; debuting Oct. 19-21 on PBS.
Oil's rally wavered on Thursday, but worries over the security of Nigerian supply supported prices despite an easier U.S. crude inventory picture and news that Russia's YUKOS would resume full supply to China.
Trendsetter Martha Stewart arrived at a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" under cover of early morning darkness on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for lying about a stock sale.
Saks Inc., the retailer that owns Saks Fifth Avenue and other department stores, blamed hurricanes and a string of planned store closings Tuesday for a third-quarter loss of #36;24.8 million, surprising Wall Street which anticipated a profit.
An affiliate of Colony Capital LLC will buy Harrah #39;s casinos in East Chicago, Ill., and Tunica, Miss., and Caesars-owned Bally #39;s casino in Tunica and the Atlantic City Hilton in New Jersey for $1.
U.S. orders for long-lasting durable goods rose by a smaller-than-expected 0.2 percent in September, held back by another sharp fall in commercial aircraft, government data showed on Wednesday.
Allied Domecq Plc, the world #39;s second- largest liquor maker, said fiscal 2004 earnings rose on US demand for spirits including Malibu rum.
The planned $3 billion deal would give Sony a library of more than 4,100 titles. Also: Vivendi says its recovery is almost complete, despite large losses hellip;. Canon and Toshiba team up to produce next-generation flat display panels hellip;. and more.
Benchmark light, sweet crude futures for November rose 33 cents to settle at a new record high of $53.64 a barrel, after reaching an intraday high of $53.
Germany witnessed a slowdown in its economic growth momentum during the third quarter this year, with the nation #39;s GDP growth rate declining to 0.1 from the relatively robust growth rate of 0.4 in the first two
Longtime foes palmOne and Microsoft on Tuesday announced a licensing deal that will allow the next generation of palmOne #39;s Treo smart phones to work directly with Microsoft #39;s Exchange e-mail system.
The Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel spent part of its September gathering discussing the implications of the massive US trade gap, according to minutes of the meeting that were disclosed yesterday.
Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB) shareholders, when seeing today #39;s first-quarter earnings report, probably said, quot;M #39;m!
Shares of Blockbuster Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BBI.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BBI.N</A> were sharply higher on Thursday after Hollywood Entertainment's chief executive said he did not think an attempt to take his company private would succeed, which was taken as a sign Blockbuster could prevail in its bid to buy the U.S.' second-largest video rental chain.
The U.S. economy is making a comeback and moving in the right direction after taking an "incredible blow" from the Sept. 11 attacks three years ago, Treasury Secretary John Snow said on Saturday.
A lawyer who was a central figure in an ongoing FBI investigation into city corruption died Thursday after a hospitalization of several days, his attorney said.
Shares of Delta Airlines are taking off in record trading on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday morning, after the company and its pilots agreed to a deal the parties hope will signal a return to better times.
Fannie Mae, the nation #39;s largest mortgage buyer and a financial juggernaut that affects tens of millions of home buyers, agreed Monday to major changes in its accounting and management
Television #39;s dean of financial news, Louis Rukeyser, is giving up his CNBC show quot;Louis Rukeyser #39;s Wall Street. quot;.
The Department of Justice (DoJ) today announced that it would approve Cingular #39;s $41 billion dollar acquisition of AT amp;T Wireless , provided the mobile carrier sells assets, such as spectrum and customer contracts, in 11 states.
Two years ago, I got an inside look at operations at Lenovo Group, the Chinese computing giant that is expected to form a joint venture with IBM to sell PCs worldwide.
The auction for Google Inc.'s highly anticipated initial public offering got off to a rocky start on Friday after the Web search company sidestepped a bullet from U.S. securities regulators.
Saudi Arabia will increase oil production capacity to 11 million barrels per day (bpd) in a bid to curb soaring prices, Oil Minister Ali al-Nuaimi has said.
An ex-Merrill Lynch banker testified Thursday that she #39;s kept a facsimile about an Enron deal for more than four years because she thought something was amiss.
BANKING giant HBOS yesterday said it had pulled out of a potential takeover battle for Abbey National. The announcement that it will not be bidding clears the way for Spain #39;s Santander
Chief executives in the United States are not as pessimistic as the Business Council thought last week when it issued its economic survey, the group said on Tuesday, citing a "tabulation error."
Merck amp; Co. Inc. has adopted a severance benefits plan aimed at protecting key managers in the event the company is taken over - a growing possibility since the withdrawal of arthritis drug Vioxx sent shares tumbling.
Lord Black is to resign as chairman and chief executive of Hollinger Inc, clearing the way for the board to consider his offer to buy the firm.
Orbitz Inc., the Internet travel agency that is being bought by Cendant Corp., Wednesday posted a 30 percent jump in third-quarter profit, aided by a surge in hotel business.
Telecommunications company Swisscom AG reported Wednesday that third-quarter net income fell 10 percent and said it would cut about 390 jobs, or 2.5 percent of its fulltime work force, next year.
As Kevin Houde wielded the saw, his 4-year-old son Cameron squatted on the ground beside him. Working as a team, they made a clean cut at the base of the 7-foot tree that will mark the Christmas season in their home this year.
Reports say No. 1 food company may divest Oscar Mayer, Post cereal lines and candy units. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Kraft Foods may put its well-known Oscar Mayer, Post cereal and Altoids brands up for sale as the No.
A Brooklyn lawyer announced plans yesterday to file the first federal lawsuits against Merck amp; Co. on behalf of New Yorkers who developed heart troubles using the arthritis drug Vioxx.
Finance Minister Ralph Goodale says he #39;s looking at another round of tax cuts after revealing the federal government posted a $9.
WASHINGTON The Associated Press reports some details are coming out today about proposed federal rules for regional phone companies.
Won #39;t confirm reports of 6,000, or 10 of the airline #39;s work force; may terminate pension plan. BRUSSELS, Belgium (Reuters) - The head of UAL Corp.
Shares of Crane Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CR.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CR.N</A> rose nearly 6 percent in early trade on Friday, as the market breathed a sigh of relief after the diversified manufacturer said it took a charge to resolve all current and future asbestos claims against the company.
Less than 18 months after emerging from bankruptcy protection, Kmart announced yesterday that it was replacing its president and chief executive with an outsider whose background is in the fast-food restaurant business.
The new chief executive of Citibank Japan apologized at a parliament committee Tuesday and promised that customers who were misled about financial investment risks will be compensated.
Global security software maker Symantec is to take over Veritas Software in a merger deal valued at $13.5bn (7bn). The all-share deal will see Symantec swap 1.1242 shares of common stock for each Veritas share.
Good riddance! Tuesday #39;s the last day of the 2004 hurricane season - a day of relief for millions of Florida residents battered by four punishing hurricanes.
Alan Greenspan came to the home of the euro on Friday and suggested that the relentless decline of the dollar might well continue, offering little relief to those here
Investors pulled back from shares of major air carriers Friday as concerns loomed that US Airways Group Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc.
Australia #39;s jobless rate fell to 5.3 percent last month, the lowest level for 27 years, the government said Thursday.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) expects to see a fall in global oil prices to as much as US $30 per barrel, its president Purnomo Yusgiantoro said here on Thursday.
Airlines apparently pushed through a fare increase yesterday after months of unsuccessful attempts to raise prices, helping to offset record-high jet-fuel costs.
Independent directors of Marsh McLennan Cos. approached New York state Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer this week about settling the corruption charges Spitzer has brought against the giant insurance broker and financial services firm, according to sources close to the investigation.
news - research) were among the Nasdaq #39;s winners Thursday, rising 11 after rival Blockbuster (BBI:NYSE - news - research) said that it would like to buy Hollywood Entertainment for about $700 million.
US 10-year Treasury notes fell in London before the government #39;s sale of $51 billion of bonds and a Federal Reserve meeting at which policy makers probably will raise their benchmark interest rate.
Cool autumn weather and apparent pent-up demand for clothing drove strong sales in October at Gap, Neiman Marcus and other national retailers, according to company reports issued Thursday.
Toyota Motor Corp said Thursday it will double the supply of its Prius hybrid cars to the US market to 100,000 vehicles a year in 2005.
About 3,400 union workers at three BF Goodrich Tire Manuafacturing plants in Indiana and Alabama have approved a new contract after working nearly 15 months without one.
Bells will be ringing at Mervyn #39;s department stores this holiday season after all, store officials announced Thursday in a sudden reversal of a ban on Salvation Army collection kettles.
The wild one. Computer Associates International (nyse: CA - news - people ) has named John Swainson as its new chief executive, reports say.
Growth in global chip sales is likely to halve in 2005, Samsung Electronics said on Monday, according to reports.
America Online dipped its toe into the onrushing online travel business Friday with an investment in closely held Kayak. AOL didn #39;t disclose details of the multiyear marketing-and-technology agreement.
Crude oil prices jumped beyond $50 a barrel Tuesday, renewing concerns that sustained high energy costs will weaken the economy.
Cingular Wireless is offering a software application intended to help the visually impaired make full use of their cell phones. The Talks application, which works only with the Nokia 6620 phone, converts menus
The U.S. economy continued its expansion over the past month, with labor market conditions improving and business lending on the rise, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday.
Alcan Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AL.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">AL.TO</A> <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">AL.N</A>, the Canadian aluminum maker, is considering a sale of its rolled products business in a transaction that might fetch $4 billion to $5 billion, after in May announcing a plan to spin the business off, the New York Post said on Wednesday.
Stocks rose on Tuesday, with blue chips touching a 2-month high, as oil prices fell and investors were encouraged by positive profit news from a number of companies.
The nation #39;s factories cranked out more products in July, miners dug more minerals and builders broke ground on more homes, the government said yesterday in three reports that showed some rebound in economic activity last month.
That #39;s the estimate of how much damage Hurricane Charley has wracked upon Florida. Much of that has been done to small businesses.
AOL, the nation's top Internet service provider, thinks it's found the ultimate weapon against password thieves - a password that changes every minute. And while AOL is mainly interested in protecting its own customers, it's also building the foundation of a system that could shield millions of others who do business online.
Pfizer Inc. on Monday announced a major clinical trial of its Celebrex arthritis drug to gauge its possible cardiovascular benefits for osteoarthritis patients.
Airbus parent EADS posted higher-than-expected nine-month earnings on Thursday driven by a strong performance in commercial aircraft and raised its 2004 targets.
The country #39;s grain exporter has been busy again, selling its stake of almost 15 per cent in Elders #39; parent company, Futuris.
KarstadtQuelle AG, Germany #39;s biggest operator of department stores, reached an agreement with investors who mounted legal challenges to the company #39;s plan to raise 535 million euros ( $709 million) in a share sale.
The market may be stuck in neutral, but your portfolio doesn't have to be.
The US trade deficit, propelled by a record foreign oil bill, surged to $54 billion in August, second highest level in history.
GM is showcasing a range of near, mid- and long-term solutions for cleaner, sustainable transportation at China #39;s Challenge Bibendum, which is being held in Shanghai from October 12-14.
More than 90 people in Brazil face possible charges after a two-year inquiry into money laundering.
The dollar retested record lows against the euro on Monday as traders continued to shun the U.S. currency on concerns about bloated deficits in the United States.
CHINA has raised its interest rates for the first time in nine years to curb inflation and stop its fast-growing economy overheating.
Oracle Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ORCL.O</A> on Tuesday reported a 16 percent rise in quarterly net income as the world's second largest software company benefited from steady demand for its flagship database software.
Oil prices continued their decline Thursday after a brief rally on the back of renewed concerns over heating oil stocks in the United States fizzled out.
LONDON : British inflation picked up to an annual rate of 1.2 percent in October from a six-month low of 1.1 percent recorded in September as petrol prices at the pump rose, official figures showed.
NEW YORK In a deal estimated to be worth $100 million a year for five years, Howard Stern, one of the most popular personalities in American radio, said Wednesday he had signed a contract with Sirius Satellite Radio and would leave his longtime job at
California #39;s top insurance regulator said Wednesday that he will be filing a civil suit shortly in the widening scandal over insurance industry sales practices.
Google, the Internet search engine, has done something that law enforcement officials and their computer tools could not: Identify a man who died in an apparent hit-and-run accident 11 years ago in this small town outside Yakima.
Consumer products maker Jarden Corp. said Monday it will buy American Household Inc. for $745.6 million, including assumed debt, to add such product lines as Coleman, Sunbeam, Mr.
Manufacturing executive John Workman was named chief financial officer of HealthSouth Corp. on Tuesday, replacing an interim executive who helped the rehabilitation giant avoid bankruptcy after a massive accounting scandal.
Free quotes on mortgages, annuities, life and auto insurance, and all your financial and insurance needs. A local MostChoice expert helps you at no cost or obligation. Quick and easy form.
Many European Union companies are being denied access to a market in public contracts worth $1.8 billion because governments are still favoring home-based firms, according to a British report into fair competition released on Monday.
Post staff writer David Hilzenrath and editor Mike Flagg discuss which local executives have the sweetest deals.
Federal Reserve policy-makers raised the benchmark US interest rate a quarter point to 2.25 per cent and restated a plan to carry out
McDonald's Corp. President and Chief Executive Charlie Bell stepped down effective immediately to focus on his cancer treatment, the company said on Monday.
The UK arm of e-retailer Amazon has announced its plans to launch a DVD rental service. CEO Jeff Bezos announced the plans earlier this week, commenting that Amazon is determined to be the best place to rent DVDs - online or off.
Reliance Industries vice-chairman Anil Ambani broke his silence on Thursday. But not to comment on the quot;ownership issue quot; raised by elder brother and chairman Mukesh Ambani.
US oil prices edged higher Monday as Iraq #39;s oil exports continued at more than 30 percent below normal after sabotage attacks on pipelines.
World Bank President James Wolfensohn told the Bush administration on Monday that he will leave his post at mid-year, triggering a hunt for a replacement for the top job at the global lender.
British workers will have to save more and retire later to make up for a looming gap in pension savings, said the author of an official report being released Tuesday.
Consumer prices rose just 0.1 percent in August, a sign that inflation poses no immediate risk to the economy.
he Roman Catholic Church has a long history of supporting the rights of workers in fields and factories around the world. But in Brooklyn and Queens, teachers at five Catholic schools insist
British public borrowing is set to rise and the government will need to raise taxes or reduce spending to decisively cut the deficit, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">WMT.N</A>, the world's biggest retailer, on Tuesday raised its profit forecast for the full year.
Do darlings Google, Yahoo and eBay, at or near 52-week highs, deserve those lofty prices? NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Are we seeing a return to irrational exuberance for Internet stocks?
Crude oil prices surged past an unprecedented $55 per barrel Monday as uncertainty swirls over production, high demand and tight global supplies.
The hundreds of pages of new rules redefine the criteria for which administrative, professional and managerial workers qualify for overtime.
Oil prices fell from near record peaks on Wednesday after a sharp build in U.S. crude stocks spurred traders to take profits.
Canada #39;s entire mutual-fund industry faces short-term pain but could reap longer-term gain, observers said Tuesday after the news that four prominent fund companies face quot;potential enforcement proceedings quot; for improper trading.
By The Associated Press. Investors resumed their December rally yesterday, looking past higher oil prices and focusing instead on building up their portfolios before the end of the year.
The Boeing Co. #39;s major rival, Airbus, announced Wednesday it has received an order from Cebu Air Inc., the Philippines #39; second-largest airline, for 12 new A319 jets.
Nigerian unions called off a general strike which had jeopardized oil supplies from the world's seventh-largest exporter for four days, but threatened more action within weeks unless the government cut fuel prices.
Gambro AB, the world #39;s No. 2 operator of dialysis centers, agreed to sell its US clinics to DaVita Inc., for $3.1 billion in cash.
Oil prices edged below $49 a barrel on Wednesday as traders looked ahead to an expected build in weekly U.S. inventory data that would help bolster the thin supply cushion ahead of peak northern winter demand.
Business India: New Delhi, Oct 17 : Ahead of a India-Asean business summit here Tuesday, a report said that diversification of the export basket and more joint ventures could boost trade between India and the southeast Asian regional grouping.
By George Chamberlin , Daily Transcript Financial Correspondent. Stock prices rallied on Friday as oil prices continued to seesaw.
Woolworths has probably won the first phase of the battle for Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality Group. Whether that translates into clear leadership of the Australian liquor retailing
Search enabler Google says it has acquired digital mapping company Keyhole for an undisclosed sum. Keyhole maintains a multiterabyte database of digital images of geographic locations, culled from satellite and aerial snapshots.
America Online Inc. is preparing to fire more than 700 employees in early December - mostly at the company #39;s Northern Virginia headquarters - a cost-cutting move tied to the firm #39;s continuing
Shares of PF Chang #39;s China Bistro jumped 7 percent in early trading Wednesday after the casual dining chain said sales jumped amid new store openings, higher traffic and a hike in prices.
While creative, Blockbuster's latest policy change will have little impact on Netflix.
The $1.02 per share reported was in line with estimates, as growth in consumer businesses offset declining stock and bond market revenue.
The head of the European Central Bank said Thursday there is growing concern about higher energy prices increasing inflationary pressures.
State-owned, running a monopoly on imports of jet fuel to China #39;s fast-growing aviation industry and a prized member of Singapore #39;s Stock Exchange.
As the second employee of InfoSpace, Jean-Remy Facq saw the value of his stock inflate and then collapse. Now he's suing in federal court in Seattle for a #36;4.5 million refund of 1999 federal income tax. He's just one of 200 tech workers who have hired Seattle tax lawyer/CPA Brian G. Isaacson in the hope his novel theories will help them slash old (and sometimes unpaid) tax bills from their exercise of stock options for shares that later tanked.
By Hugh Williamson in Berlin and Richard Milne in Rsselsheim. The mood at Opel #39;s Rssel-heim factory near Frankfurt was as chilly yesterday as the weather.
NEW YORK (Dow Jones/AP) _ The stock of Star Gas Partners LP plunged 80 percent Monday after the distributor of heating oil and propane said its inability to pass on the full impact of high heating oil prices to customers may lead to bankruptcy.
Stock markets rose Friday morning, helped by improved profit guidance from Ford Motor Co., while indications of tame inflation and low interest rates sent the Canadian dollar tumbling.
China remained an attractive destination for foreign investors who poured in 43.6 billion dollars during the first eight months of the year, 18.8 percent more than the same period last year, the government said.
U.S. construction spending fell unexpectedly by 0.4 percent in November, as a cooling in residential construction overpowered a small rise in public spending, a government report showed on Monday.
Natural Resources Minister Yury Trutnev said Saturday that Yukos #39; main production unit, Yuganskneftegaz, could lose its licenses over what he termed quot;rather serious quot; technical violations.
Following a lifetime of helping people through his church work, a $575,000 gift from the Rev. Donald Bartone will help renew that dedication nearly two years after his death.
LONDON : Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co (P and O) - the ports, shipping and logistics group - announced sweeping cuts to its ferry operations to refocus the business in the face of competition from low-cost airlines.
Boston Scientific Corp. violated its agreement with an Israeli company and acted in quot;bad faith quot; when it set up a secret stent-making operation in Ireland, according to a federal judge who ordered the companies to reach a settlement.
Citigroup Inc. #39;s top Japan executive Douglas Peterson told lawmakers he will improve employee training to help fix compliance breaches that cost the company its private banking license in the country.
Two units of mutual fund company Franklin Resources Inc. agreed to pay #36;20 million in civil penalties to settle charges that they used fund assets to pay for marketing and failed to adequately tell investors, federal regulators said on Monday.
Circuit City Stores Inc., the No. 2 US electronics chain, said yesterday its second-quarter loss narrowed to $11.9 million as the company sold more plasma-screen televisions and benefited from the acquisition of a Canadian retailer.
A bullish profit outlook from Ford Motor Co. sent stocks higher Friday as investors looked past a disappointing report on consumer sentiment and new accounting problems at Qualcomm Inc.
Misconduct in the U.S. mutual fund industry is not limited to fund share trading; it's not even limited to funds, say market regulators.
Ford Motor #39;s (F) striking market-share plunge should be over within six months, and the company is banking on new products to regain share while allowing it to cut back incentives, CEO Bill Ford said Wednesday in an interview with USA TODAY.
Standard amp; Poor #39;s said on Tuesday it may cut the corporate credit rating of The Interpublic Group of Cos. (IPG.N: Quote, Profile, Research) citing growing concerns over senior
MontrealWith its stock in a tailspin and the prospect of cash-strapped US airlines bailing out on future jet orders, aerospace giant Bombardier Inc.
US claims for jobless benefits jumped last week, while consumer spending was unexpectedly flat in August as shoppers closed their wallets after splashing out the previous month, the government said on Thursday.
Italian airline company, Alitalia (ALI.FSE), has reached an agreement with eight trade unions to support the plans to split the company into two separate entities, while the ninth and last union is expected to
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's intended transformation of the Army into a quick, mobile force has started to rub against the daily demands of patching enough tanks and trucks together to keep fighting the war.
OIL continues to set new records by the day. Last Friday, it was in whispering distance of $50 a barrel as Iraq and the woes of the giant Russian producer, Yukos, kept markets on tenterhooks.
The Salvation Army of Minnesota and North Dakota is preparing for a fight to reach its fundraising goals this holiday season after Target Stores announced this fall that it won #39;t allow bellringers outside its doors.
Emisphere warrants close attention, although massive profits are not in the near-term cards.
Penalties imposed on Microsoft by the European Union are unlikely to rein in the software giant and could result in higher costs for other software developers, regulators said on Friday.
The sounds of the holiday season are a joyous cacophony of loving banter, caroling and children #39;s laughter. Thanks to the classic film quot;It #39;s a Wonderful Life, quot; everyone knows that every time a bell rings, an angel gets its wings.
U.S. power company Scana Corp <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SCG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">SCG.N</A> on Friday said quarterly profit fell, on litigation costs and a writedown related to an investment in a telecommunications business.
WAL-MART Stores, the worlds largest retailer and owner of Asda supermarkets, said sales at stores open at least a year rose 2.4 per cent in September, slightly higher than its preliminary report but still towards the low end of its forecast range.
ACROSS the Euro-zone last week there were tell-tale signs of panic setting in. To the evident worries of the euro being forced to further record highs against the dollar, were added grim evidence by the weekend of a sharp economic slowdown.
OPEC oil producers said on Thursday that Friday's ministerial meeting would focus on cutting back oversupply to support falling prices and that producers would have to reduce output quotas early next year.
Indian-born billionaire Lakshmi Mittal has agreed to acquire the US #39;s International Steel Group for about $4.5 billion (R27.
Nortel Networks Corp., North America #39;s biggest maker of phone equipment, will pare 3,250 jobs, 250 fewer than it predicted last month, as it reduces other costs including real estate.
Germany's financial watchdog said on Thursday it was looking into recent trading by U.S. financial services group Citigroup <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=C.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">C.N</A> in European government bond and derivative markets, but had not started a formal probe.
US consumer confidence sank in August while Chicago-area business activity slowed, according to reports on Tuesday that added to worries the economy #39;s patch of sluggish growth may last beyond the summer.
It #39;s finally over. Business-software maker PeopleSoft (PSFT) agreed to be acquired by rival Oracle (ORCL) for $10.3 billion Monday, ending 18
Over the past three decades the Federal Government has poured three-quarters of a trillion dollars into financial aid for college students. Back in 1971, the annual total for grants, loans, tax breaks and other aid was the equivalent, in today's dollars, of #36;18 billion. It's now running at a #36;65-billion-a-year clip.
BellSouth's approach to business has been stable, disciplined, anything but flashy. But now the company is slowly shedding its conservative approach.
The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in the summer as a big rebound in auto sales offset weakness from an exploding trade deficit, soaring oil prices and the Florida hurricanes, the government reported Friday.
Drugstore chain Rite Aid Corp. on Thursday reported a quarterly profit, reversing a year-ago loss, on strong cash flow and a reduction in inventory-related expense.
YESTERDAY THE STATE OF OHIO sued Best Buy for alleged unfair and deceptive business practices. Ohio state is claiming the company repackaged used goods and sold them as if they were new, as well as not honouring rebates, refunds, exchange programs and ...
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday cut its earnings forecast after making a wrong bet on the direction of grain prices and demand for chicken
The strength of oil prices is poised to exacerbate an airline quot;bloodbath quot; long predicted for this winter, Ryanair has said, announcing a profits ahead of City forecasts.
Motorcycle maker Harley-Davidson Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HDI.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">HDI.N</A> roared to record quarterly earnings on Wednesday, boosted by more efficient operations and demand for its new models.
U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow on Friday said higher oil prices were a risk to global growth, but were unlikely to trigger a recession.
President Bush on Friday signed into law a measure authorizing an #36;800 billion increase in the credit limit of the United States, the White House said.
Shares in a range of area retailers dipped Monday on disappointing Thanksgiving sales data from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. In addition, ShopperTrak, which tallies sales results from 30,000 stores nationwide, said
U.S. oil major ConocoPhillips won an auction for a 7.6 percent state stake in Russian oil giant LUKOIL with a bid of #36;1.988 billion, the Russian property fund said on Wednesday.
Harley's latest numbers are a lot like the bikes: powerful underneath but not too speedy.
Time Warner said today it is establishing a $500 million legal reserve stemming from the on-going federal probes of its America Online unit and plans to restate the accounting for its stake
The possible charges relate to the creation and operation of an internal transfer agent unit to serve primarily the Smith Barney family of funds.
UBS said Tuesday that it would buy Charles Schwab #39;s market making, research and institutional trading unit for $265 million in cash.
Honeywell announced late Wednesday it has filed a lawsuit against Apple, and 33 other electronics companies claiming claiming infringement of a liquid crystal display (LCD) patent.
Google #39;s motion to dismiss legal proceedings brought against it by insurance company Geico was granted on Wednesday by a US District Court judge.
ChevronTexaco Corp.<A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CVX.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CVX.N</A>, the No. 2 U.S. oil company, on Friday reported a rise in quarterly profit, pumped up by record oil and gas prices and gains on asset sales.
Treasuries prices turned lower on Tuesday in a classic buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact reaction as a reading on U.S. consumption proved not as weak as some had been betting.
HARMONY has voted its 10,8 of Gold Fields shares against a planned reverse-listing of Gold Fields assets outside southern Africa into IAMGOLD of Canada, Harmony director Ferdi Dippenaar said yesterday.
Seeking to establish the medium as a mass market form of entertainment instead of a niche technology, the game industry has taken the playbook of the movie business.
The founders of the PBHG mutual funds agreed to pay $160 million in restitution and civil fines, and to accept a lifetime ban from the securities industry to resolve allegations they facilitated improper trading in the funds
Crude oil futures continued to retreat from record levels of more than $54 US a barrel Wednesday as traders nervously monitored developments in strike-hit Nigeria and recovery efforts in the Gulf of Mexico.
Celebrity fashion is booming. These webpreneurs are bringing it to main street
Shift-work sleep disorder - a condition that leaves tens of thousands exhausted, unable to concentrate and struggling to get proper rest - is of concern for workers on the overnight shift.
World oil prices fell nearly $3 a barrel on Wednesday, shedding 6 percent, as a larger-than-expected build in U.S. heating stocks soothed worries about a winter fuel deficit.
High-flying oil prices held above $54 a barrel on Tuesday as concern lingered over the thin state of heating oil supplies ahead of the northern winter.
France and Germany appeared headed for another industrial row on Monday over a French plan to merge Airbus parent EADS with French defense group
Michael Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DIS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">DIS.N</A>, on Thursday said it was "stupid" to appear on a national television show in 1996 to show his support for Michael Ovitz and conceded he was less than candid with the public during the interview.
Swiss mining conglomerate Xstrata said Monday it offered to buy the entire issued share capital of major Australian mining company WMC Resources for A $7.4 billion ( $5.79 billion) in cash.
BRITAINS only remaining mass market car maker seemed certain last night to pass into foreign control after MG Rover admitted merger talks with a Chinese firm were at an advanced stage.
Intel Corp. #39;s board of directors on Thursday tapped Paul Otellini, who has been with the company for 30 years, to replace Craig Barrett as chief executive officer in May.
Jeroen van der Veer, chief executive of Royal Dutch/ Shell, has opened the door to future deals with Gazprom, the Russian gas group, by welcoming its rapid expansion into the oil sector.
Commercial truck maker Navistar International Corp. on Monday said it expects higher fourth-quarter earnings and revenue as the recovering U.S. economy spurs orders for its trucks and engines.
Driven by demand for flash memory chips used in cell phones, Intel's profits rose as it struggled to overcome weak PC sales, growing inventory, product missteps and stiff competition.
Toll Brothers Inc., a US builder of luxury homes, said on Wednesday third-quarter profit rose 56 percent, easily beating analysts forecasts, helped by record home-building revenue.
The Coca-Cola Co. is lowering its long-term targets for earnings and sales volume growth amid continuing weakness in key markets including North America. But the world's biggest soft drink company also plans to boost spending on marketing its core brands.
Three UK bankers must wait until the middle of October to see if they will be extradited to the US over an Enron-related case.
Consumers borrowed more freely in September, especially when it came to racking up charges on their credit cards, the Federal Reserve reported Friday.
LONDON : Oil prices fell slightly in opening deals on hopes of an easing of tensions in Nigeria #39;s key oil producing region, traders said.
Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Larry Ellison aimed his famously barbed tongue outside the technology industry Wednesday, taunting the owners of the San Francisco 49ers for refusing to sell the quot;worst team in football.
Continental Airlines Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CAL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CAL.N</A> said on Thursday it plans to cut about 425 management and clerical jobs through staff reductions, attrition and the elimination of unfilled positions to save about $200 million in pretax costs.
Late-stage drugs are crucial for a company beset with patent losses.
Rome, 15 Dec - The special commissioner for Parmalat Enrico Bondi is ready quot;to present over the next few days legal action seeking to recover over a billion dollars from dozens of Italian banks which aided the company #39;s finances before its
Tokyo's Nikkei average fell 0.46 percent by late Tuesday, setting the stage for an eighth straight day of losses after oil prices topped $50 a barrel, fanning concerns about Japan Inc's prospects.
Verizon Communications Inc., the nation #39;s largest telephone company, announced yesterday it is digging up streets and stringing wire in six states, including Washington #39;s Maryland and Virginia
Securities regulators are suing the management team behind the rapid rise and fall of online credit lender NextCard Inc., alleging the company #39;s top executives cooked the books and then scrambled to sell their stock before the ruse unraveled into
Deutsche Telekom, the largest European phone company, on Thursday raised its forecast for net income in 2004 and said it planned to pay its first dividend in three years, after its third-quarter profit more than doubled.
Special guest Oct. 11-24 on quot;Radio Playbill quot; is Michael Kantor, who has spent much of the last decade on an epic project, the six-part TV miniseries, quot;Broadway: The American Musical, quot; debuting Oct. 19-21 on PBS.
Oil's rally wavered on Thursday, but worries over the security of Nigerian supply supported prices despite an easier U.S. crude inventory picture and news that Russia's YUKOS would resume full supply to China.
Trendsetter Martha Stewart arrived at a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" under cover of early morning darkness on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for lying about a stock sale.
Saks Inc., the retailer that owns Saks Fifth Avenue and other department stores, blamed hurricanes and a string of planned store closings Tuesday for a third-quarter loss of #36;24.8 million, surprising Wall Street which anticipated a profit.
An affiliate of Colony Capital LLC will buy Harrah #39;s casinos in East Chicago, Ill., and Tunica, Miss., and Caesars-owned Bally #39;s casino in Tunica and the Atlantic City Hilton in New Jersey for $1.
U.S. orders for long-lasting durable goods rose by a smaller-than-expected 0.2 percent in September, held back by another sharp fall in commercial aircraft, government data showed on Wednesday.
Allied Domecq Plc, the world #39;s second- largest liquor maker, said fiscal 2004 earnings rose on US demand for spirits including Malibu rum.
The planned $3 billion deal would give Sony a library of more than 4,100 titles. Also: Vivendi says its recovery is almost complete, despite large losses hellip;. Canon and Toshiba team up to produce next-generation flat display panels hellip;. and more.
Benchmark light, sweet crude futures for November rose 33 cents to settle at a new record high of $53.64 a barrel, after reaching an intraday high of $53.
Germany witnessed a slowdown in its economic growth momentum during the third quarter this year, with the nation #39;s GDP growth rate declining to 0.1 from the relatively robust growth rate of 0.4 in the first two
Longtime foes palmOne and Microsoft on Tuesday announced a licensing deal that will allow the next generation of palmOne #39;s Treo smart phones to work directly with Microsoft #39;s Exchange e-mail system.
The Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel spent part of its September gathering discussing the implications of the massive US trade gap, according to minutes of the meeting that were disclosed yesterday.
Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB) shareholders, when seeing today #39;s first-quarter earnings report, probably said, quot;M #39;m!
Shares of Blockbuster Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BBI.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">BBI.N</A> were sharply higher on Thursday after Hollywood Entertainment's chief executive said he did not think an attempt to take his company private would succeed, which was taken as a sign Blockbuster could prevail in its bid to buy the U.S.' second-largest video rental chain.
The U.S. economy is making a comeback and moving in the right direction after taking an "incredible blow" from the Sept. 11 attacks three years ago, Treasury Secretary John Snow said on Saturday.
A lawyer who was a central figure in an ongoing FBI investigation into city corruption died Thursday after a hospitalization of several days, his attorney said.
Shares of Delta Airlines are taking off in record trading on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday morning, after the company and its pilots agreed to a deal the parties hope will signal a return to better times.
Fannie Mae, the nation #39;s largest mortgage buyer and a financial juggernaut that affects tens of millions of home buyers, agreed Monday to major changes in its accounting and management
Television #39;s dean of financial news, Louis Rukeyser, is giving up his CNBC show quot;Louis Rukeyser #39;s Wall Street. quot;.
The Department of Justice (DoJ) today announced that it would approve Cingular #39;s $41 billion dollar acquisition of AT amp;T Wireless , provided the mobile carrier sells assets, such as spectrum and customer contracts, in 11 states.
Two years ago, I got an inside look at operations at Lenovo Group, the Chinese computing giant that is expected to form a joint venture with IBM to sell PCs worldwide.
The auction for Google Inc.'s highly anticipated initial public offering got off to a rocky start on Friday after the Web search company sidestepped a bullet from U.S. securities regulators.
Saudi Arabia will increase oil production capacity to 11 million barrels per day (bpd) in a bid to curb soaring prices, Oil Minister Ali al-Nuaimi has said.
An ex-Merrill Lynch banker testified Thursday that she #39;s kept a facsimile about an Enron deal for more than four years because she thought something was amiss.
BANKING giant HBOS yesterday said it had pulled out of a potential takeover battle for Abbey National. The announcement that it will not be bidding clears the way for Spain #39;s Santander
Chief executives in the United States are not as pessimistic as the Business Council thought last week when it issued its economic survey, the group said on Tuesday, citing a "tabulation error."
Merck amp; Co. Inc. has adopted a severance benefits plan aimed at protecting key managers in the event the company is taken over - a growing possibility since the withdrawal of arthritis drug Vioxx sent shares tumbling.
Lord Black is to resign as chairman and chief executive of Hollinger Inc, clearing the way for the board to consider his offer to buy the firm.
Orbitz Inc., the Internet travel agency that is being bought by Cendant Corp., Wednesday posted a 30 percent jump in third-quarter profit, aided by a surge in hotel business.
Telecommunications company Swisscom AG reported Wednesday that third-quarter net income fell 10 percent and said it would cut about 390 jobs, or 2.5 percent of its fulltime work force, next year.
As Kevin Houde wielded the saw, his 4-year-old son Cameron squatted on the ground beside him. Working as a team, they made a clean cut at the base of the 7-foot tree that will mark the Christmas season in their home this year.
Reports say No. 1 food company may divest Oscar Mayer, Post cereal lines and candy units. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Kraft Foods may put its well-known Oscar Mayer, Post cereal and Altoids brands up for sale as the No.
A Brooklyn lawyer announced plans yesterday to file the first federal lawsuits against Merck amp; Co. on behalf of New Yorkers who developed heart troubles using the arthritis drug Vioxx.
Finance Minister Ralph Goodale says he #39;s looking at another round of tax cuts after revealing the federal government posted a $9.
WASHINGTON The Associated Press reports some details are coming out today about proposed federal rules for regional phone companies.
Won #39;t confirm reports of 6,000, or 10 of the airline #39;s work force; may terminate pension plan. BRUSSELS, Belgium (Reuters) - The head of UAL Corp.
Shares of Crane Co. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CR.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">CR.N</A> rose nearly 6 percent in early trade on Friday, as the market breathed a sigh of relief after the diversified manufacturer said it took a charge to resolve all current and future asbestos claims against the company.
Less than 18 months after emerging from bankruptcy protection, Kmart announced yesterday that it was replacing its president and chief executive with an outsider whose background is in the fast-food restaurant business.
The new chief executive of Citibank Japan apologized at a parliament committee Tuesday and promised that customers who were misled about financial investment risks will be compensated.
Global security software maker Symantec is to take over Veritas Software in a merger deal valued at $13.5bn (7bn). The all-share deal will see Symantec swap 1.1242 shares of common stock for each Veritas share.
Good riddance! Tuesday #39;s the last day of the 2004 hurricane season - a day of relief for millions of Florida residents battered by four punishing hurricanes.
Alan Greenspan came to the home of the euro on Friday and suggested that the relentless decline of the dollar might well continue, offering little relief to those here
Investors pulled back from shares of major air carriers Friday as concerns loomed that US Airways Group Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc.
Australia #39;s jobless rate fell to 5.3 percent last month, the lowest level for 27 years, the government said Thursday.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) expects to see a fall in global oil prices to as much as US $30 per barrel, its president Purnomo Yusgiantoro said here on Thursday.
Airlines apparently pushed through a fare increase yesterday after months of unsuccessful attempts to raise prices, helping to offset record-high jet-fuel costs.
Independent directors of Marsh McLennan Cos. approached New York state Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer this week about settling the corruption charges Spitzer has brought against the giant insurance broker and financial services firm, according to sources close to the investigation.
news - research) were among the Nasdaq #39;s winners Thursday, rising 11 after rival Blockbuster (BBI:NYSE - news - research) said that it would like to buy Hollywood Entertainment for about $700 million.
US 10-year Treasury notes fell in London before the government #39;s sale of $51 billion of bonds and a Federal Reserve meeting at which policy makers probably will raise their benchmark interest rate.
Cool autumn weather and apparent pent-up demand for clothing drove strong sales in October at Gap, Neiman Marcus and other national retailers, according to company reports issued Thursday.
Toyota Motor Corp said Thursday it will double the supply of its Prius hybrid cars to the US market to 100,000 vehicles a year in 2005.
About 3,400 union workers at three BF Goodrich Tire Manuafacturing plants in Indiana and Alabama have approved a new contract after working nearly 15 months without one.
Bells will be ringing at Mervyn #39;s department stores this holiday season after all, store officials announced Thursday in a sudden reversal of a ban on Salvation Army collection kettles.
The wild one. Computer Associates International (nyse: CA - news - people ) has named John Swainson as its new chief executive, reports say.
Growth in global chip sales is likely to halve in 2005, Samsung Electronics said on Monday, according to reports.
America Online dipped its toe into the onrushing online travel business Friday with an investment in closely held Kayak. AOL didn #39;t disclose details of the multiyear marketing-and-technology agreement.
Crude oil prices jumped beyond $50 a barrel Tuesday, renewing concerns that sustained high energy costs will weaken the economy.
Cingular Wireless is offering a software application intended to help the visually impaired make full use of their cell phones. The Talks application, which works only with the Nokia 6620 phone, converts menus
The U.S. economy continued its expansion over the past month, with labor market conditions improving and business lending on the rise, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday.
Alcan Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AL.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">AL.TO</A> <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">AL.N</A>, the Canadian aluminum maker, is considering a sale of its rolled products business in a transaction that might fetch $4 billion to $5 billion, after in May announcing a plan to spin the business off, the New York Post said on Wednesday.
Stocks rose on Tuesday, with blue chips touching a 2-month high, as oil prices fell and investors were encouraged by positive profit news from a number of companies.
The nation #39;s factories cranked out more products in July, miners dug more minerals and builders broke ground on more homes, the government said yesterday in three reports that showed some rebound in economic activity last month.
That #39;s the estimate of how much damage Hurricane Charley has wracked upon Florida. Much of that has been done to small businesses.
AOL, the nation's top Internet service provider, thinks it's found the ultimate weapon against password thieves - a password that changes every minute. And while AOL is mainly interested in protecting its own customers, it's also building the foundation of a system that could shield millions of others who do business online.
Pfizer Inc. on Monday announced a major clinical trial of its Celebrex arthritis drug to gauge its possible cardiovascular benefits for osteoarthritis patients.
Airbus parent EADS posted higher-than-expected nine-month earnings on Thursday driven by a strong performance in commercial aircraft and raised its 2004 targets.
The country #39;s grain exporter has been busy again, selling its stake of almost 15 per cent in Elders #39; parent company, Futuris.
KarstadtQuelle AG, Germany #39;s biggest operator of department stores, reached an agreement with investors who mounted legal challenges to the company #39;s plan to raise 535 million euros ( $709 million) in a share sale.
The market may be stuck in neutral, but your portfolio doesn't have to be.
The US trade deficit, propelled by a record foreign oil bill, surged to $54 billion in August, second highest level in history.
GM is showcasing a range of near, mid- and long-term solutions for cleaner, sustainable transportation at China #39;s Challenge Bibendum, which is being held in Shanghai from October 12-14.
More than 90 people in Brazil face possible charges after a two-year inquiry into money laundering.
The dollar retested record lows against the euro on Monday as traders continued to shun the U.S. currency on concerns about bloated deficits in the United States.
CHINA has raised its interest rates for the first time in nine years to curb inflation and stop its fast-growing economy overheating.
Oracle Corp. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">ORCL.O</A> on Tuesday reported a 16 percent rise in quarterly net income as the world's second largest software company benefited from steady demand for its flagship database software.
Oil prices continued their decline Thursday after a brief rally on the back of renewed concerns over heating oil stocks in the United States fizzled out.
LONDON : British inflation picked up to an annual rate of 1.2 percent in October from a six-month low of 1.1 percent recorded in September as petrol prices at the pump rose, official figures showed.
NEW YORK In a deal estimated to be worth $100 million a year for five years, Howard Stern, one of the most popular personalities in American radio, said Wednesday he had signed a contract with Sirius Satellite Radio and would leave his longtime job at
California #39;s top insurance regulator said Wednesday that he will be filing a civil suit shortly in the widening scandal over insurance industry sales practices.
Google, the Internet search engine, has done something that law enforcement officials and their computer tools could not: Identify a man who died in an apparent hit-and-run accident 11 years ago in this small town outside Yakima.
Consumer products maker Jarden Corp. said Monday it will buy American Household Inc. for $745.6 million, including assumed debt, to add such product lines as Coleman, Sunbeam, Mr.
Manufacturing executive John Workman was named chief financial officer of HealthSouth Corp. on Tuesday, replacing an interim executive who helped the rehabilitation giant avoid bankruptcy after a massive accounting scandal.
Free quotes on mortgages, annuities, life and auto insurance, and all your financial and insurance needs. A local MostChoice expert helps you at no cost or obligation. Quick and easy form.
Many European Union companies are being denied access to a market in public contracts worth $1.8 billion because governments are still favoring home-based firms, according to a British report into fair competition released on Monday.
Post staff writer David Hilzenrath and editor Mike Flagg discuss which local executives have the sweetest deals.
Federal Reserve policy-makers raised the benchmark US interest rate a quarter point to 2.25 per cent and restated a plan to carry out
McDonald's Corp. President and Chief Executive Charlie Bell stepped down effective immediately to focus on his cancer treatment, the company said on Monday.
The UK arm of e-retailer Amazon has announced its plans to launch a DVD rental service. CEO Jeff Bezos announced the plans earlier this week, commenting that Amazon is determined to be the best place to rent DVDs - online or off.
Reliance Industries vice-chairman Anil Ambani broke his silence on Thursday. But not to comment on the quot;ownership issue quot; raised by elder brother and chairman Mukesh Ambani.
US oil prices edged higher Monday as Iraq #39;s oil exports continued at more than 30 percent below normal after sabotage attacks on pipelines.
World Bank President James Wolfensohn told the Bush administration on Monday that he will leave his post at mid-year, triggering a hunt for a replacement for the top job at the global lender.
British workers will have to save more and retire later to make up for a looming gap in pension savings, said the author of an official report being released Tuesday.
Consumer prices rose just 0.1 percent in August, a sign that inflation poses no immediate risk to the economy.
he Roman Catholic Church has a long history of supporting the rights of workers in fields and factories around the world. But in Brooklyn and Queens, teachers at five Catholic schools insist
British public borrowing is set to rise and the government will need to raise taxes or reduce spending to decisively cut the deficit, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. <A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote">WMT.N</A>, the world's biggest retailer, on Tuesday raised its profit forecast for the full year.
Do darlings Google, Yahoo and eBay, at or near 52-week highs, deserve those lofty prices? NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Are we seeing a return to irrational exuberance for Internet stocks?
Crude oil prices surged past an unprecedented $55 per barrel Monday as uncertainty swirls over production, high demand and tight global supplies.
The hundreds of pages of new rules redefine the criteria for which administrative, professional and managerial workers qualify for overtime.
Oil prices fell from near record peaks on Wednesday after a sharp build in U.S. crude stocks spurred traders to take profits.
Canada #39;s entire mutual-fund industry faces short-term pain but could reap longer-term gain, observers said Tuesday after the news that four prominent fund companies face quot;potential enforcement proceedings quot; for improper trading.
By The Associated Press. Investors resumed their December rally yesterday, looking past higher oil prices and focusing instead on building up their portfolios before the end of the year.
The Boeing Co. #39;s major rival, Airbus, announced Wednesday it has received an order from Cebu Air Inc., the Philippines #39; second-largest airline, for 12 new A319 jets.
Nigerian unions called off a general strike which had jeopardized oil supplies from the world's seventh-largest exporter for four days, but threatened more action within weeks unless the government cut fuel prices.
Gambro AB, the world #39;s No. 2 operator of dialysis centers, agreed to sell its US clinics to DaVita Inc., for $3.1 billion in cash.
Oil prices edged below $49 a barrel on Wednesday as traders looked ahead to an expected build in weekly U.S. inventory data that would help bolster the thin supply cushion ahead of peak northern winter demand.
Business India: New Delhi, Oct 17 : Ahead of a India-Asean business summit here Tuesday, a report said that diversification of the export basket and more joint ventures could boost trade between India and the southeast Asian regional grouping.
By George Chamberlin , Daily Transcript Financial Correspondent. Stock prices rallied on Friday as oil prices continued to seesaw.
Woolworths has probably won the first phase of the battle for Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality Group. Whether that translates into clear leadership of the Australian liquor retailing
Search enabler Google says it has acquired digital mapping company Keyhole for an undisclosed sum. Keyhole maintains a multiterabyte database of digital images of geographic locations, culled from satellite and aerial snapshots.
America Online Inc. is preparing to fire more than 700 employees in early December - mostly at the company #39;s Northern Virginia headquarters - a cost-cutting move tied to the firm #39;s continuing
Shares of PF Chang #39;s China Bistro jumped 7 percent in early trading Wednesday after the casual dining chain said sales jumped amid new store openings, higher traffic and a hike in prices.
While creative, Blockbuster's latest policy change will have little impact on Netflix.
The $1.02 per share reported was in line with estimates, as growth in consumer businesses offset declining stock and bond market revenue.
The head of the European Central Bank said Thursday there is growing concern about higher energy prices increasing inflationary pressures.
State-owned, running a monopoly on imports of jet fuel to China #39;s fast-growing aviation industry and a prized member of Singapore #39;s Stock Exchange.
