While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
An Associated Press report is included .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
On Thursday , authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and closed off the road leading there .
Two brothers who were among seven Portland suspects accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead guilty to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
" They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and other drugs in the future .
Overall , 83 percent of women washed up , compared with 74 percent of men .
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four central Asian nations have met in Beijing and approved a budget for their regional security grouping .
During the fiscal second quarter , Cisco earned $ 991 million , or 14 cents a share , on sales of $ 4.7 billion .
TSMC also accused Syndia of trying to interfere with its customer relationships .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be diffused .
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators joined the mechanics in the picket line .
" If that ain 't a Democrat , then I must be at the wrong meeting , " he said to a standing ovation .
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher hidden in a portable electric generator .
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's official uniform policy says " they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
The juvenile arrested yesterday allegedly authored a variant of the worm known as " RPCSDBOT . "
Other recall suits are pending in federal court .
" Ms. Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is , but because of what she did , " Comey said .
" The woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is critical .
However , commercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most customers .
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of smaller company stocks , advanced 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , closing at 497.42 .
Brian Brabazon said his son would get upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Blagojevich reiterated his stance Wednesday to not prop up the budget with a gambling expansion .
In the first stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm began fouling computers around the world .
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing international pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is freed .
But the new vaccine will not even begin to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that .
The UAW earlier this week reached tentative agreements , also for four years , with Ford Motor Co . , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
She said Jane Doe 's lawyers asked Verizon to withhold her name because she was planning on challenging the subpoena .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Ryan Harvey , an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida , was selected with the sixth pick by the Chicago Cubs .
When police removed the four from the home , they weighed 136 pounds combined .
But price declines have remained below 30 percent , year over year , for the last two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
A nationally board certified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley , in his 30th year teaching , makes $ 65,000 .
Come tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres , probably dragged by the main parachute .
They suspect the same anarchist group that claimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
And if estimates hold , it will mark the first time in history that five films grossed more than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with federal prosecutors in the past two weeks .
Police believe someone strangled her and she may have been sexually assaulted .
It has a plus or minus 4.9 percent margin of error .
Shares of MONY were gaining $ 2.57 , or 9 % , to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet .
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey figures are based on a larger sample .
Economists said that raised the odds of a rate cut at the Fed 's next meeting on June 24-25 .
Food and Drug Administration ( news - web sites ) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's initiative could start an important trend .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a new constitution and for holding the first democratic elections .
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gasses to penetrate the ship 's thermal armor during Columbia 's ill-fated reentry .
In the total external disk storage system market , revenue increased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter , to $ 3.2 billion .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a Bloomfield Township parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
" After what happened here ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , " said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her husband from Salem , Mass .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was charged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and is also suspected of a 1997 Georgia killing .
Stack said he did no work for Triumph until 1999 , when a grand jury began investigating Silvester .
Except for a few archaic characteristics , they are as recognizable as Hamlet 's poor Yorick .
A call to Rev. Christopher Coyne , the spokesman for the archdiocese , was not immediately returned .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced Tuesdays ban , also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to help .
About 130,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq , with others deployed in Afghanistan , South Korea and elsewhere .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when exposed to air during surgery , according to a poll to be published Tuesday .
But the institute says the department " woefully underestimates " the changes that would occur under the proposal .
They returned in 1999 after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-building bombings that were blamed on the rebels .
" This is , I think , a very seminal moment in our agency 's history , " Mr O 'Keefe said .
More than 60 percent of the company 's 1,000 employees were killed in the attack .
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November .
As a teen , he stabbed a 6-year-old boy , nearly killing him , for no apparent reason .
" People who are high in positive emotions sleep better , they have better diets , they exercise more , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , " Cohen said .
It is rare for a legal challenge to occur before a bill becomes law .
He said there were complex reasons for the increased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said many communities , especially rural ones , have opposed it .
A grief-stricken old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : " My child , my child . "
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
The three priests were careful to go through church channels first as they exercised their rights under canon law .
Missouri Gov. Bob Holden asked the White House to declare a federal disaster in 39 counties .
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. led shares of U.S. biotechnology companies higher after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies .
The outbreak was especially intense in Colorado , where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died .
Oh yeah , Miami , Boston College and Syracuse leaving the Big East to take a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference .
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem ; 34 percent used a DSL service .
For the full 12-month period , high-speed cable modem connections increased by 49 percent .
He also drove in a run on a groundout against Franklin in the fifth .
Third-quarter revenue declined to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , primarily reflecting lower vehicle sales .
Sean Harrigan of Calpers , the California fund , said : " Today we are trying to pull the pig from the trough .
On a planet that takes nearly 165 years to orbit the sun , spring can last more than 40 years .
The two powerful men also disagree about ethanol ( sacred in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may never be , since ferry operators rarely keep full passenger lists .
Medical experts said the condition was mildly worrying but easily-manageable .
Singapore is already the United States ' 12th-largest trading partner , with two-way trade totaling more than $ 34 billion .
The greenback scored beefy gains against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales figures .
" If the voluntary reliability standards were complied with , we wouldn 't have had a problem . "
A tradition of Labor Day racing was established long ago in the Inland Empire .
The yield on the 3 5 / 8 percent February 2013 note dropped 2 basis points to 3.66 percent .
In Las Vegas , agents entered two clubs — Cheetah 's and Jaguars — along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas .
Market research firm Dell 'Oro Group estimates this market will total $ 12 billion in 2004 .
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and getting seven Tony nominations _ was a potent revival of Eugene O 'Neill 's family drama , " Long Day 's Journey Into Night . "
Former U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey , 64 , died this afternoon in his home after a long battle with bladder cancer .
An 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally planned as part of a North American tour .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
About 120 potential jurors were being asked to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
" The lives of American warfighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components , " said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
He later learned that the incident was caused by the Concorde 's sonic boom .
The next court session will be when the three-judge tribunal announces its verdict in mid-February .
They also are reshaping the retail business relationship elsewhere , as companies take away ideas and practices that change how they do business in their own firms and with others .
Along with chip.m.aker Intel , the companies include Sony Corp. , Microsoft Corp. , Hewlett-Packard Co . , International Business Machines Corp. , Gateway Inc . , Nokia Corp. and others .
" Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , " Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most of them civilians .
Thomas was joined in full by Rehnquist , and in parts by O 'Connor and Scalia .
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers weren 't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were able to request that the E-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , got a word that sounded like " zistee " during yesterday 's competition .
" This blackout was largely preventable , " said Spencer Abraham , US energy secretary .
After 9 / 11 , Connolly said , agents spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi .
The single currency rose as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
Some Boston managers are concerned that banning smoking will create safety hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs .
The federal government is approving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm children , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
" We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment .
Between 1993 and 2002 , 142 allegations of sexual assault were reported .
However , official statistics published this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
Even when the exchange detected violations , it often failed to take disciplinary action , the SEC said .
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that suspects who escaped Saturday 's raid fled in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon .
" That doesn 't mean to say it doesn 't exist , " said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team hasn 't uncovered evidence indicating such a link .
Sylvan Shalom , the Israeli Foreign Minister , said there was a possibility that Mr Bush “ will come to this area ” .
The memorandum analyzed lawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal activities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used by themselves or as extensions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications .
A grassy field and asphalt island , topped with an ATM , sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
They also drafted a non-binding priorities list specifying that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified charitable trust - which promptly sold them .
Microsoft this week released a critical update to fix a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
A hearing on the matter was held Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court , marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
President Bush called the blackout " a wake-up call " for Americans about the nation 's outdated power grid .
" Everyone who has a cell phone wishes they had a better one , " Huang said .
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been married 13 years .
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to establish full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
" Germany is on the right path , " Mr. Schrder said , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
Even after he turned 94 , Lacy worked to change baseball .
At the very long end , the 30-year bond US30YT = RR slid a full point for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
" The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive , " Medina said in a statement .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB intelligence service , the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB .
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's nuclear program and American demands that it cease .
Berry also married and divorced his second wife twice , most recently in 1991 .
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - men 's and women 's basketball and men 's soccer .
The FTC also said AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely rebates to consumers .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action yesterday after they abandoned their night patrol to watch David Blaine .
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two major hospitals amid fears of a widespread epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
There are only 2,000 Roman Catholics living in Banja Luka now .
Also , hospital efforts to start " fever clinics " in parking lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms are " moving along impressively , " Dr. Roth said .
Under Mexican law , bounty hunting is considered a form of kidnapping .
A second Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called " field commander " of the bombings , was sentenced to death last month .
For the weekend , the top 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , up 52 percent from the same weekend a year earlier .
During the flight , engineers misjudged the extent of the damage , and even during that period they lamented that the liftoff photography was poor .
Frank Partnoy , a securities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and control of its executives were inadequate .
The S3C2440 CPU supports major operating systems including Microsoft Windows CE / Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
He also said he advised his grown-up children not to run up credit card debts .
With the exception of dancing , physical activity did not decrease the risk .
Researchers found that people 65 and older who had fish once a week had a 60 % lower risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or rarely ate fish .
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although many parking lots were crowded by early afternoon .
Mr. Bush said he was taking the action in response to Hamas 's claim of responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
His protest led to a 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia .
In case the company does not turn in the reports before the end of May , it is likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times as hot as a blowtorch . "
The jump in tobacco shares was led by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.28 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at £ 169.99 while the InfoPath XML ( Extensible Markup Language ) data gathering application is priced at £ 179.99 .
The U.S. government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated " contest " that could disrupt Internet traffic .
Joan B. Kroc , the billionaire widow of McDonald 's Corp. founder Ray Kroc , died Sunday after a brief bout with brain cancer .
BOCHK chief executive Liu Jinbao was transferred abruptly to Beijing last month .
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein 's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum .
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform .
Tampering with medicine has been so lucrative that many of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes .
The Lockheed Martin-built SIRTF is the last of NASA 's Hubble-class " Great Observatories . "
" We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , " said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who led an association panel on enemy combatants .
Most of that - $ 51 billion - was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ 10 billion was for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
" I think we made some mistakes with this exam , and it 's up to us to identify and correct them , " Mills said .
Ruffner , 45 , doesn 't yet have an attorney in the murder charge , authorities said .
Whether it works out , timewise , that I can march with all four ... we 'll see what happens , " he said .
The Republic of Korea was found to lead the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett declined to comment on personnel matters Tuesday , as did Mills .
That compares with earnings of $ 446 million , or 7 cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.3 billion in the same period a year ago .
" This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes . "
Predictions ranged from 16 cents a share to 27 cents a share , according to Thomson First Call .
Mr. Brendsel is expected to remain with the Freddie Mac Foundation .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer spending and leaving shops , restaurants and airports empty .
The 2002 second quarter results don 't include figures from our friends at Compaq .
Oracle shares were also higher , trading up 12 cents at $ 13.60 .
" Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their current offerings , " John C. McCarthy , Forrester Group director , said .
But while the prime minister 's trial judders to a halt , his co-defendants in the same case are not protected .
He said European governments " have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears .
Greenspan is head of the U.S. central bank , which sets U.S. interest rates .
They did not nationalize them , " Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London , said .
Amrozi accused his brother , whom he called " the witness " , of deliberately distorting his evidence .
And " although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , " it said the prospects for British exports were " weaker than previously expected . "
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized services including the ability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and other music entertainment services .
Emmy and Golden Globe Award-winners James Brolin and Judy Davis star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans .
American has laid off 6,500 of its Missouri employees since Dec. 31 , according to Driskill .
" It is symptomatic of the communication difficulties that often trouble the ECB , " said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
He added that we are " not going to make progress if we don 't broaden the tent . "
However , one subset of women — those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy — appeared to show improvement in survival .
The merged company will keep the Interwoven name and be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
The G + J executive was testifying in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court where O 'Donnell and G + J are suing each other for breach of contract .
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said the incident resulted from " two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes . "
The company has agreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
But Gelinas says only six have been fully re-evaluated .
This deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over , " Geer added .
On Thursday , Lee won a preliminary injunction in New York preventing Viacom from using the name " Spike TV . "
The two forms account for about 30 percent of the approximately 7 million immigration benefits applications received annually , immigration officials said .
Auditors acknowledged the auditors did not look at priests ' personnel files .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was up 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that day only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys who are out there competing with you . "
An international warrant for his arrest was issued both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol .
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living fast and loose .
But Amrozi did not reveal and was not asked the company 's or his boss 's name .
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are being caught every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas .
" It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short-lived or long-lived , " Mr. Sprayregen said .
Now , nearly two years later , Mallard prepares for trial on charges of murder and tampering with evidence .
In interviews with engineers , most of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its restructuring offer .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to encourage wider vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for cellular phones , personal digital assistants and other wireless devices .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is scheduled to begin .
" Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , " the company said in a statement .
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been forced to rob the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb .
Pressed for details , Mr Warner said : " All six of them are dead , we were told by Harold and his group " .
Video replays suggested the ball had hit the ground before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
A council of up to nine Iraqis probably will lead the countrys interim government through the coming months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
His daughter , Nina Axelrod , told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep , apparently of heart failure .
But stocks have rallied sharply over the past 3-1 / 2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound later this year .
North American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings .
Stony Brook University launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
The couple was granted an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Beckham will receive a yearly salary of $ 10 million plus bonuses , earning him about $ 220,000 a game .
" We are declaring war on sexual harassment and sexual assault .
As a result , Nelson now faces up to 10 years ' jail instead of life .
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today . "
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or last year 's in Texas .
It would not affect economic damages such as lost wages or hospital bills .
As you know , East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past . "
All of those governments have said their support will not waver , though public sentiment is rising against it .
The 39-year-old Luster initially gave police a false name , but later revealed his true identity .
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying launch will be between Oct. 10 and 17 and will carry two men .
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve different meals each day , she said .
Perry has since called two special legislative sessions to try force the redistricting plan through .
" Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now , " he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
" I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable supply of energy , " Mr. Klein said Sunday .
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker , ' ' Sherry Studabaker told BBC television .
Investigations by the Air Force inspector general and the Defense Department also are under way .
The proposal likely would result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress , instead of the state 's current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
Minister Saud al-Faisal visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
In March , Rowland 's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to accepting gold and cash in return for steering state contracts .
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by the end of September .
" The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and national conciliation . "
" We have sent a message to the nation that this is a new Louisiana , " she told a victory party in New Orleans .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
After all , China isn 't racing anyoneso there 's no great rush , " Clark said .
Six months ago , the IMF and Argentina struck a bare-minimum $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal that expires in August .
D 'Cunha said , from a science standpoint , Toronto 's last case was April 19 , so the all-clear day was actually yesterday .
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our ability to work with [ our ] customers and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . "
X2 took in $ 17.1 million for a total three-week take of $ 174 million .
Even her request , decades later , to attend her father 's funeral on the island was denied .