While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He added : " Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million last week and was still counting money .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > rose 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
" By its actions , " Lieberman said , " the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war . "
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was " very methodical . "
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were " allegedly " assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
" A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person , " he said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks , which officers delivered .
While Mr. Qurei is widely respected and has a long history of negotiating with the Israelis , he cannot expect such a warm welcome .
While Qureia is respected and has a history of negotiating with the Israelis , a warm welcome is not expected .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Writing for the minority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The previous biggest R rated opening was " Hannibal 's " $ 58 million .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's thin margins of safety .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years , " he said .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " he said .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , " Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference last night .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His movies include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam , " " Jungle Fever " and " Do the Right Thing . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well . "
" We have concluded that the outlook for price stability over the medium term has improved significantly since our last decision to lower interest rates , " Duisenberg said .
In a statement , the ECB said the outlook for price stability over the medium term had " improved significantly " since its last decision to lower interest rates in March .
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
" It is highly conditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . "
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
" We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " he said .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was ' especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
" Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people . "
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
" My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would know . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
" Selling it symbolically writes ' Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , " he said .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
At home , the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not supplied or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter " in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
" We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , " she said .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O 'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen " a bit short . "
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges , will now to trial in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday , there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days , the police chief said .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by more than 10 percent .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Parker said Moore 's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were " inappropriate . "
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset , Sapp said .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
A Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned by others as a " rebellion against God 's created order . "
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now indefinite .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while taking in only $ 39.5 million .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
" In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD , founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
There was no transcript of Thursday 's courtroom session in Tarrytown , which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile , investigators said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , including heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
At first , the animals ’ performance declined compared to the sessions on the joystick .
At first , the animals ' performance declined compared with the joystick sessions .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
The lawsuit names Shelley , a Democrat , and registrars in Los Angeles , Orange and San Diego counties .
Both figures were below consensus expectations , but August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain , fueling a dollar rally .
But August sales were revised to a 1.2 percent increase from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain , fuelling a dollar rally .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been scheduled for this morning .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn 't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
Analysts attributed its rise to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . < WCOEQ.PK > and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target , among other factors .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
" We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln . "
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
She has also signed a contract with Random House to write two books .
Pauley also announced Thursday that she has struck a deal with Random House to pen two books .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs , the analyst firm said .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , " said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed , Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor " large scale bribery " would solve the issue .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who ran the illegal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , " Tunick said Sunday .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen born in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was " not an international public health concern . "
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market , " said Rusty Wood , chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first major as a champion .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing a security guard .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has been elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG & E Corp. shares jumped $ 1.63 or 8 percent to $ 21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday .
The 3 { hours of recordings include conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as well as media inquiries .
Among them are conversations between police , firefighters and other emergency workers , as well as media inquiries .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Mr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , claimed the deal made sense for both companies .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
An Associated Press report is included .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Still , changes to IE " may affect a large number of existing Web pages , " according to the W3C 's notice .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
" Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are lucky to catch one , " Myers said .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
" Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can do it justice . "
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " Burg said .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer power management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He would often call me for advice , " said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had represented him in court .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tuesday ’ s testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
" It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night : " We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while light truck sales--which include vans , pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster , 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
" The company has always made , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority , " the statement said .
The Company has always made , and continues to make , exceptional customer service and customer satisfaction a top priority in all business practices , " AOL added .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
" Those rating present business conditions as ' bad ' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , " the report said .
Nvidia shares lost 58 cents ( U.S. ) or 3.46 per cent to $ 16.20 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Nvidia 's stock fell 65 cents , or almost 4 percent , to $ 16.13 on Nasdaq .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
Even with time , he said , " it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death . "
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
O 'Connor wrote , " We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary . "
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly : ``He did a bad job going up there , ' ' he said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , " the specialist said yesterday .
" The question that has to be penetrated is , how did 38 visits over 2 years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation ? "
" The question that has to be penetrated is how did 38 visits over two years not rescue these children from slow torture and starvation , " Ryan said in an interview .
This is just the latest movement in a continuing trend towards open source support of business applications .
This is just the latest movement in a continuing trend toward open-source support among business application vendors .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
