How do I to score good marks in 12th boards?
How can we score excellent marks in class 12th board exams?
What is physical quantities and also its types?
What is a physical quantity?
Why is it so important for Indians to know what other people think about them?
Why do Indians think a lot about what others think?
What are some of the best snack hacks?
What are some good snack hacks?
Why do animals sleep?
Why do all animals sleep?
Can Manchester United win the Premier League?
Can Manchester United win the Premier League this season?
How do I control myself during a diet?
How can I control my diet?
What is the best website where we can read/download books for free?
Which is the best website to download free books?
What is lord of the rings about?
What is a summary of Lord of the Rings?
What is the worst thing ever happened to you for being nice?
What was the worst thing that happened to you for being nice?
Has Anthony Robbins made a significant change in your level of confidence and standard of living?
Did Anthony Robbins change your life?
How can I found local business directories in Australia?
How can I find the local business directories in Australia?
How can I increase my English fluency?
How do I speak English like celebrities?
What food does a peacock eat?
What do peacocks eat?
After our 1st date that lasted only 90 mins for dinner, he tried to kiss me and texted saying he had a lot of fun. Is he interested or being nice?
Would a guy try and kiss you and text right after the first date that he had fun if he was just being polite and not interested?
Which is the best laptop to buy for rs. 60000?
What is the best laptop under Rs.60000 in India?
How can I deal with a roommate who snores heavily?
What can I do if my roommate snores?
Which are the best part-time jobs to do in Bangalore?
What are the best part time jobs we can do in Bangalore?
Should the Indian education system be revamped?
Does the Indian education system need to change and why?
What are some good romantic movies to watch?
Which are the best romantic movies to watch?
What is a way to make money online?
What are the various ways through which one can earn money online?
What is the best way for converting a website (which is not owned by me) into an iOS app?
"What is the best way to ""convert"" a website into an iOS app?"
Can you get high from accidentally ingesting a few tiny specks of weed without knowing?
What's the best way to get high from eating weed and why?
Do you believe that there is God? Why or why not?
Do you believe that there is a God? Why or why not?
What would happen if Earth had an extra moon (one that's as big as Phobos)?
What would happen if Earth had two moons?
Why is the Quora community so anti-Donald Trump?
Why is Quora so antiTrump?
Can I marry a girl of the same gotra?
Can a boy marry a girl in same gotra and girl elder to him?
How can I get replacement or refund from Flipkart?
How can I ask for a refund from Flipkart?
How do I start a Linux system?
How do we start Linux system?
What does it feel like to be deaf?
What is it actually like to be deaf?
How can I know if some one else uses my WhatsApp account?
How do you know if someone else uses your WhatsApp account?
What do you think about Modi government banning 500 & 1000 currency note from 9th November?
What do you think of abolishing 500 and 1000 Rupee Currency notes by the Indian Government?
If animals could speak or if we understood their language, would we still be able to kill them and eat them?
What if animals could talk to humans... would we still eat them :(?
Who should I follow on Quora? Why?
Which are some of the most viewed writers I should follow from every topic on Quora?
What are cute names for parakeets?
What are good names for parakeets?
How can changing 500 and 1000 rupee notes end the black money in India?
By scrapping the 500 and 1000 rupee notes, how is RBI planning to fight against black money?
How do I deal with the pain of unrequited love?
How do I deal with unrequited love?
How cold can the Gobi Desert get, and how do its average temperatures compare to the ones in the Gibson Desert?
How cold can the Gobi Desert get, and how do its average temperatures compare to the ones in the Karakum Desert?
How much money do I need to hire Nicki Minaj to perform at my daughter's birthday? Do you think it will be worth it?
How much money do I need to hire Nicki Minaj to perform at my daughter's birthday?
What made you depressed?
What is the thing that has made you depressed?
How can you remove nail glue from your skin?
How can you effectively remove nail glue from your skin?
What is the chemical formula of diamond?
What is the chemical formula of diamonds?
What is the best way to get free traffic to my website?
How do i get traffic for website?
If alien civilizations are thought to be much more advanced than us, why haven't they made contact with us yet?
If there are super intelligent alien beings somewhere in the Galaxy why haven't they tried to contact us yet?
Will time travel ever become possable?
Is time travel still theorized as being possible?
Why are so many questions posted to Quora that are so easily answered by using Google?
Why do people ask stupid questions on Quora that could be easily answered by Google?
How can l learn web development in 14 days? Is this possible?
How can I learn web development?
What is the future of real estate in India after Demonetization? What impact can be seen in the future scenario?
What will be the impact of demonetizing Indian currency's on real estate sector?
My penis is bent downwards. Is this alright?
Is downward bent penis bad for sex?
Which Canon DSLR camera is equivalent to the Nikon D3200?
What's the Canon equivalent to a Nikon D3200?
What is pay for deck cadets in maersk and what is the waiting time and how is the food onboard? ☺?
What is pay for deck cadets in maersk and what is the waiting time and how is the food onboard? ☺
How do I learn machine learning?
How do I start learning machine learning?
How do you carrier unlock an iPhone?
How do I unlock a carrier locked iPhone?
Is there any alien buildings on the Moon?
Do aliens reside on moon?
Do you think Siri is useful?
Do you think Siri is useful? I can do nothing useful with it.
Is there a method to play the songs saved offline (not purchased) on Airtel Wynk music on my default music player?
Is there any way to play songs downloaded using Airtel Wynk on any other player?
How could South Vietnam/ America have won the Vietnam War?
How could the U.S. have won the Vietnam War?
If universe expansion is caused by potential energy that transforms into kinetic energy with no limit, then is there infinite potential energy?
Is universe expaning with no limit because of potential energy transforming into kinetic energy? If yes, then is there infinite potential energy?
What is the smallest spying drone currently?
What is the worlds smallest drone with camera?
I'm overweight. How can I begin to lose weight?
I am ugly and fat, how to lose weight?
What is the difference between schizophrenia and psychosis?
How is schizophrenia differentiated from psychosis?
I want to start writing. How and where do I start?
I want to start writing my blog, What topic should I begin with?
What is e insurance account?
What is an e-insurance account?
Why do fusion nuclear bombs release much more destructive energy than a comparable fission device?
Why does nuclear fusion give more energy that nuclear fission?
Why do people ask so many Googleable questions on Quora?
Why do so many people ask questions on Quora that can be easily answered by any number of legitimate sources on the Web? Have they not heard of Google or Bing?
What do you think of the decision by the Indian Government to demonetize 500 and 1000 rupee notes?
What are your views on PM Modi's decision on discontinuing 500 & 1000 rs notes?
Who won the second debate?
Who won the 2nd U.S. Presidential Debate?
Why does Lysol only kill 99.9% of germs?
Why does disinfectant only kill 99% of germs!?
How do I become a better freelance graphic designer?
How can I be a great Freelance graphic designer?
What are the most popular programming languages as of 2016?
What is the most popular programming language in 2016?
What are the things on your bucket list?
What are the top things on your bucket list?
What should be strategy for CAT 2017?
What are best ways to prepare for cat 2017?
Can I pass class 12 pre-boards if I study only all the past year's Q&As from CBSE Chapterwise Solutions?
Can I get 80% marks in physics and chemistry CBSE class 12 boards just by studying past year questions and chapterwise solutions?
What are some ways to make money from YouTube?
How do I make money through YouTube?
What books/lessons are recommended for learning Swedish?
What book is recommend for learning Swedish?
What are some best inspirational songs?
What are your favorite inspirational songs?
Why do some people think that the Earth is flat when it is very clear that it is not?
Why do some people still think the Earth is flat?
Can Electors of the Electoral College vote their conscience?
Can the Electoral College vote for anyone they want?
Why do we use swing in Java?
Why we use swings in java?
What is the best way to love kids?
What are the best ways to love kids?
How does Donald Trump's win affects Indian students preparing for graduate studies in US?
Will Trump's win affect the matriculation of students who wish to be graduate from USA?
Do you think that cultural differences influence people relationship?
Do you think that cultural difference influence people relationship?
Which are the best movies of 2016?
What has been the best movie of 2016?
How does spontaneous human combustion occur?
What causes spontaneous human combustion?
What are some paradoxical examples?
What is a paradox? What are some examples?
What is best thing in our life?
What are the best things in life?
Why is honesty the best policy?
Why is it said that honesty is the best policy?
What is your review of UPSC Civil Services Pre 2016?
How was the Civil services Prelims 2016 paper?
What are the most useful productivity rich hacks for Outlook?
What are some interesting hacks for Microsoft Outlook?
What would be the best way to control anger?
What do I do when I can't control my anger?
How long should I take to lose 10 lbs?
How long does it take to lose 10 pounds on average?
What is the best solution to resolve the Israel-Palestine conflict?
In your opinion what is the best solution for the Israel Palestine conflict?
What is the best time to visit Kerala and what are the places to visit in a span of 8 days?
What are the best off-the-beaten-path places in Kerala for a tourist?
What are the safety precautions on handling shotguns proposed by the NRA in Rhode Island?
What are the safety precautions on handling shotguns proposed by the NRA in Mississippi?
What is the best and most efficient way to start learning to code?
What's the fastest, most efficient way to learn programming/coding?
What are the safety precautions on handling shotguns proposed by the NRA in Arkansas?
What are the safety precautions on handling shotguns proposed by the NRA in Maine?
Which are best places to visit in GOA during vacations?
Which are the best places in Goa to visit alone?
What advice would you give to 16 year old you?
What is the advice you would give your 16-year-old self?
Dr J Jayalalitha was famous in Tamil Nadu. Why?
Why is Jayalalithaa so famous in Tamil Nadu?
How can I make website designer and change his line I donig email marketing?
How can I make website designer and change his line I doing email marketing?
"How do you bake a 10"" cake?"
How can I make a delicious cake?
If Hitler had won World War II, what sort of world would there have been today?
What if hitler won the war?
What are your views on Modi governments decision to demonetize 500 and 1000 rupee notes? How will this affect economy?
What are your views on the decision of Narendra Modi to discontinue the use of 500 and 1000 currency notes?
How can I get a list of my Gmail accounts?
How can I find my all Gmail accounts?
Where can you find the routing number on a Bank of America check?
How to identify the routing number in a check from Bank Of America?
If vacuum gravitational and dark energy is created without limit as universe expands?
If vacuum gravitational and dark energy are created as universe expands without limit?
Why doesn't India have a US-like Prime Ministerial one-to-one debate?
What do you think about having a prime ministerial debate in India like they have Presidential debate in the US?
How can I specifically improve my English?
How can I improve fluency in English?
What are buffer solutions?
What is buffer solution?
What are the best places to visit in Bhutan?
Which are the best places to visit in Bhutan?
"Why is Alliser Thorne still referred to as ""Ser"" if he's in the Night's Watch?"
"Why are Alliser Thorne and Janos Slynt referred to as ""ser"" when they renounced all titles to enter the Night's Watch?"
I am a blogger. I want to get huge traffic on my blog. What should I do?
I'm a creative writer. Recently started my own blog and want to get traffic for my blog. How do I get traffic?
What is the best introduction to computer science books?
What is a great introduction to computer science book?
Which is the best Indian news channel?
Which is the best Indian news channel and why?
"Who is the main character in ""The Great Gatsby"" by F. Scott Fitzgerald?"
Who is the main character in The Great Gatsby: Gatsby or Nick?
What can you do with a political science degree?
What can I do with a Political Science degree?
How do I stop worrying about future?
When will I stop thinking about what other people think?
What is the significance behind the holy water (Theertham) offered by the priests in a Hindu Temple?
What is the significance behind giving teertha prasadams at temple?
What's the future of Julian Assange?
What is the likely future of Julian Assange after the election?
Are there some games to improve my memory?
What are some exercises or games I can do to improve my memory and creativity?
Why ink for a printer so expensive?
Why is ink so expensive?
Why does Justin Beiber show is underwear? Does he have a contract with underwear companies?
Why does Justin Beiber always show his underwear?
How can I self-study for the SAT?
How much should I study for the SAT?
What are the reader's views on Harry Potter and The Cursed Child?
Did you dislike Harry Potter and the Cursed Child too, or was it just me?
What do you think about Modi government banning 500 & 1000 currency note from 9th November?
What do you think of the move by the govt to scrap 500 & 1000 rupee notes?
Will be there war between Pakistan and India?
Wil there be a war between India and Pakistan?
How can I learn programming from scratch?
I want to learn Coding/Programming from scratch. How to start?
Can I earn money by making Android apps and games?
How can we make money by developing an android app?
What is best place in India?
What are the best places to visit in India?
Why are smiles infectious?
What makes a smile infectious?
Hw do I improve my aptitude skills?
How can I increase my aptitude skills?
Is it necessary to have sex in relationship?
Is sex necessary in a relationship?
How can I stop worrying about what other people think of me?
How do I stop caring so much about what other people think of me?
Which is the best Black Friday hosting offer?
What is the best black Friday hostings offer?
How did Donald trump win the elections?
Why did Trump win the election?
How is hiroshima now?
What is it like to live in the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki now?
How do you speed up DeSmuME?
How can you speed up the DeSmuME emulator?
What are some good places to visit in Kerala on tour?
What are the best places to visit in Kerala for college students?
Who will will IPL 2013?
Who will win IPL 2013?
What's The Best Way To Learn Japanese by Myself?
What's the fastest way to learn Japanese by yourself?
How can you determine the pH value of blood?
How do you calculate the pH value of blood?
How do I to beat a federal drug test if you are a meth user?
What drinks can I get to pass drug test for meth?
Is the universe increasing?
Is the universe expanding day by day?
Which fictional character do you believe is the most like yourself?
Who's the fictional character that you find yourself most like?
What is Bulletproof Coffee good for?
Is bulletproof coffee campaign legit?
Does hookah cause more bodily harm than smoking cigarettes?
Is hookah more harmful than cigarette?
What is the best joke you've ever heard? Please keep it clean.
Tell a joke that the funniest you have heard?
How do I become smart and clever?
How can I become clever and smart?
Is it too late to start medical school at 32?
Is it too late to study medicine at 23?
How do I prepare for UGC NET English Literature exam?
How do I prepare for Net JRF in English literature?
How will be my career if I chose MBA after b.tech in mechanical engineering?
What is the best field for earning money after completing a B.Tech in mechanical engineering?
What are the books that you would like to recommend?
What books do you recommend?
What is there in the Bermuda triangle?
What mystery is hidden in the Bermuda Triangle?
How do I impress a girl whom I like?
How do I impress the girl on whom I have a crush?
How should I start investing in the stocks market?
When should I start investing in stock market?
Does India need reservations? Why?
Do we still need reservation in INDIA? Why?
What would you do if you were President of the United States?
What would you do if you are elected President of United States?
How do I sell my domain quickly?
How do I sell domains?
What's your 2017 new year resolution?
What are your 2017 New Year’s resolution(s)?
What is the most beautiful thing you saw today?
What was the most beautiful thing you saw today?
Who are you voting for president? Give a reason.
Who are you voting for and why?
What fiction and nonfiction books are essential? Why are they essential to read?
What fiction and nonfiction books are essential?
How do I get 5k followers on Instagram?
How do I get more followers on Instagram?
What countries are represented on Quora?
What countries are the most represented in Quora?
What are the safety precautions on handling shotguns proposed by the NRA in Utah?
What are the safety precautions on handling shotguns proposed by the NRA in Maine?
Do parents have the right to insult/hit their children?
Should parents hit their children?
What is the difference between the syllabus of CAT and GMAT?
What is the major difference in the syllabus of CAT and GMAT?
What is the best language for web development?
Which language is the best for web development?
How would you describe yourself in just three words?
How can you describe yourself in 3 words?
What will be the pros and cons of the replacement of 500 and 1000 currency notes by the Indian govt.?
What are the pros and cons in the various sectors of the Indian economy by banning Indian Rupees of 500 and 1000 notes? What lead to this short notice by PM Narendra Modi?
There was blood in my pee, what is happening?
What causes blood in urine?
How do I reduce my anger?
How can I control on my anger?
What are the Interesting facts about Nepal?
What are some of the amazing facts about the country Nepal?
Is conversion into Hinduism accepted?
Does Hinduism believe in conversion?
How can I meet Modi?
How can a common, middle-class young Indian meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi?
What are the easy ways to earn money online?
What is the easiest way to earn money from online?
What is purpose of life?
What's the purpose of a human life?
Why do I have zero friends?
Why do I have no friends?
Why did Trump win the Presidency?
How did trump become president?
If you think about someone does that mean they're thinking about you?
Is it true if you think of someone they were thinking about you first?
How do I stop being insecure ?
How should I stop being insecure?
If the land masses were spread out the same way as now - only rotated by an angle of 90 degrees?
What would the world be like if the land masses were spread out the same way as now - only rotated by an angle of 90 degrees?
Can I use Jio 4G sim in a 3G phone?
Can I use Jio in 3G phone?
How are coral reef formed?
How do coral reefs form?
Why do we get dreams about snakes?
How do I overcome dreams of snakes and what does it mean to dream about snake?
Is Chicago turning into another Detroit?
Is Chicago in danger of becoming the next Detroit?
Can I make a friend on Quora?
Can you make online friends with other people on Quora?
Do any of those fat burning pills actually work?
Are fat burning pills helpful along with exercise? What are the best fat burning pills (non-steroidal)?
What do you think of when you think of Egypt?
What do you think towards our Egypt?
What are the coldest countries in the world?
What is the coldest country in the world?
What are some of your New Year's resolutions for 2017?
What is your New Year's resolution for 2017?
Would a Donald Trump presidency really be so bad?
What would a Donald Trump presidency look like?
Who won the third debate?
Who won the third Trump-Clinton debate?
How can I improve my character and personality?
How do I develop my personality?
What are the best riddles?
What are some great riddles?
What is Hillary Clinton's foreign policy outlook with regard to India?
What is the foreign policy of the United States towards India be if Hillary Clinton were elected its president?
Who were the leaders behind the Revolt of 1857?
How were the leaders of the 1857 revolt supported?
Is it possible to get pregnant before period or after period ends?
Can I fall pregnant after 3days of my period?
How can I recover my email address if I forgot my recovery phone number and email address?
How do I recover my Gmail account password without a recovery email or the security question 2?
How was the International Space Station built?
How was international space station made?
