Oil prices have stabilized in world markets and demand is likely to increase in the second half of the year, Indonesia's Mines and Energy Minister Subroto said. He told a meeting of oil industry executives that oil prices had stabilized at 18 dlrs a barrel -- the average fixed price OPEC put into effect in February -- and supply and demand have been in equilibrium since March. If OPEC does not increase overall output in the second half of the year, prices will tend to increase, because non-OPEC producers have not been able to produce more oil at current prices, he said. But he declined to predict, when asked after the meeting, whether OPEC would raise its production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels at its next meeting in June. He said in his speech that world oil production over the last two months was estimated at 45.6 mln barrels a day, or two mln barrels a day less than world oil demand. Oil production by industrialized countries, particularly the U.S. And Canada, is expected to decrease this year, but some of that slack will be taken up by increased production in Cameroon, India and other developing countries, he said. This year is a battle between OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers and consumers in the industrialized world for the upper hand in world oil markets, Subroto said in an earlier speech to management trainees at Pertamina Oil Company. "If OPEC emerges the winner, than it can gradually resume its former role in world oil markets," he said. "But don't expect oil prices to return to the level of 28-30 dlrs a barrel, at least not in the next three or four years," Subroto said.
Saudi crude oil output last month fell to an average of 3.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 3.8 mln bpd in January, Gulf oil sources said. They said exports from the Ras Tanurah and Ju'aymah terminals in the Gulf fell to an average 1.9 mln bpd last month from 2.2 mln in January because of lower liftings by some customers. But the drop was much smaller than expected after Gulf exports rallied in the fourth week of February to 2.5 mln bpd from 1.2 mln in the third week, the sources said. The production figures include neutral zone output but not sales from floating storage, which are generally considered part of a country's output for Opec purposes. Saudi Arabia has an Opec quota of 4.133 mln bpd under a production restraint scheme approved by the 13-nation group last December to back new official oil prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel. The sources said the two-fold jump in exports last week appeared to be the result of buyers rushing to lift February entitlements before the month-end. Last week's high export levels appeared to show continued support for official Opec prices from Saudi Arabia's main crude customers, the four ex-partners of Aramco, the sources said. The four -- Exxon Corp XON>, Mobil Corp MOB>, Texaco Inc TX> and Chevron Corp CHV> -- signed a long-term agreement last month to buy Saudi crude for 17.52 dlrs a barrel. However the sources said the real test of Saudi Arabia's ability to sell crude at official prices in a weak market will come this month, when demand for petroleum products traditionally tapers off. Spot prices have fallen in recent weeks to more than one dlr below Opec levels. Saudi Arabian oil minister Hisham Nazer yesterday reiterated the kingdom's commitment to the December OPEC accord and said it would never sell below official prices. The sources said total Saudi refinery throughput fell slightly in February to an average 1.1 mln bpd from 1.2 mln in January because of cuts at the Yanbu and Jubail export refineries. They put crude oil exports through Yanbu at 100,000 bpd last month, compared to zero in January, while throughput at Bahrain's refinery and neutral zone production remained steady at around 200,000 bpd each.
Canada's February unemployment rate, seasonally adjusted, fell to 9.6 pct from 9.7 pct in January, Statistics Canada said. The rate was 9.8 pct in February last year. Seasonally adjusted employment in February was 11,777,000, compared with 11,747,000 in January, while unemployment slipped to 1,252,000 from 1,255,000.
The U.S. civilian unemployment rate fell to 6.6 pct in March from 6.7 pct in February, the Labor Department said. The number of non-farm payroll jobs rose 164,000 last month after rising a revised 236,000 in February. That was down from the previously reported 337,000 rise in February. The March unemployment rate was the lowest since March, 1980. It had remained unchanged at 6.7 pct for three straight months before the March decline. The rise in non-farm payrolls was the smallest since a decline last June of 75,000, the department said. Last month's unemployment rate was down from the 7.2 pct level in March, 1986. Growth in jobs continued in March but was slower than in recent months, with the gains concentrated in service industries. The number of goods-producing jobs fell 68,000 in March, while service-producing jobs rose 232,000 to bring the total jobs in the department's survey of businesses to 102.03 mln in March. Business and health services showed the largest gains in jobs, while manufacturing employment fell by 25,000. The average work week fell to 34.8 hours in March from 35.0 hours in February, the department said. Manufacturing hours fell to 40.9 per week from 41.2 hours in February, but overtime hours increased to 3.7 from 3.6. The department's survey of households showed the number of unemployed stood at 7.85 mln out of a work force of 119.2 mln. The number of persons working part time for economic reasons fell in March to 5.46 mln from 5.78 mln in February. The loss of factory jobs brought the March total to 19.19 mln jobs and was concentrated in automobile, electrical and electronic manufacturing. Construction employment also lowered the number of jobs in the goods-producing sector, falling by 45,000 after seasonal adjustment, the department said. Mining employment was little changed in March and has not experienced any substantial erosion since the rapid job losses in oil and gas drilling in the first two-thirds of 1986. Other service industries that increased jobs last month were finance, insurance, and real estate.
Finnish unemployment was 6.9 pct in January after 6.9 pct in December and 6.8 pct in January last year according to the revised formula of the Central Statistics Office. It said in a statement 173,000 were unemployed in January and December against 158,000 in January 1986. The new formula shows unemployed persons willing to work if jobs were available but excludes any coming under the country's unemployment pension scheme.
Helga Steeg, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said a U.S. oil import fee would disrupt world markets and could prompt trade retaliation against the United States. She told the U.S. chapter of the World Energy Conference she believed "an oil import fee would be difficult to operate, would generate unacceptable economic costs and that it would gravely hamper and distort international trade in energy." Steeg also said it would violate the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) by imposing a discriminatory tariff, permitting retaliation by oil exporting countries. Steeg praised President Reagan's opposition to a tax, which would be aimed at helping the U.S. oil industry.
Unocal Corp said it raised its posted prices for most U.S. grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective October 16. The move brings the price the company will pay for the U.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, and West Texas Sour to 19 dlrs a barrel. The price was last changed September 9, Unocal said.
Unemployment in the European Community fell in March to 16.8 mln from 17 mln in February thanks to an improvement in the weather, the EC's statistics agency Eurostat said. It said the number of jobless fell in all 12 Community member states as weather conditions improved, though France, Italy and Spain saw declines of less than one pct. There was also a particularly large drop in the number of jobless under-25s in all states except Italy, where 19,300 more young people were unemployed in March than in the month before.
A new method of calculating Sweden's unemployment figures reduced the number of jobless by a sixth, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Statistics (SCB) said, reporting a substantial drop in the past year. According to the revised data there were 94,000 jobless in February representing 2.2 pct of the workforce against 120,000 or 2.8 pct of the workforce in February 1986. SCB official Olle Wessberg said the new figures were based on a more extensive survey of the unemployed which brought Sweden into line with the practises recommended by the Geneva-based International Labour Organisation. Wessberg said the new method cut the number of unemployed by about 16 pct. "The way we are now collecting data is far more accurate and we are asking many more questions to find out whether the jobless want work, whether they are able to work and whether they have actually looked for work," he told Reuters. The new method was first used for the January figures, which showed unemployment dropping to 2.1 pct of the workforce from 2.7 pct (old style) in December, but Wessberg said the change had apparently not been noticed by the press. Recalculated according to the new method, unemployment in February 1986 would have stood at 2.2 pct, the SCB said.
Australia's crude oil tax strategy is probably best tackled in terms of a targeted rather than broadly-based approach, Federal Resources and Energy Minister Gareth Evans told a meeting here. He told the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA) annual conference there was a prospect of developing a package that would recognise the government's economic priorities while also meeting some of the industry's concerns. Evans was referring to a nearly completed government review of oil taxation. Evans said there were plenty of examples where targeted approaches to oil industry taxation had produced good results in recent years. These include the reduction in the top marginal crude excise rate on 'old' Bass Strait oil found before September 1975 to 80 pct from 87 pct, and the waiver of excise on onshore oil announced last September, he said. The industry, through the APEA, has been calling for the elimination of secondary taxation on oil in order to boost incentives for prospecting against a background of weak prices and Australia's relatively low exploration levels. "While nobody wants to add further unnecessary complexity to an already complex taxation regime, I am inclined to favour these kinds of tailored approaches ahead of sweeping changes, which leave (government) revenue much reduced and may still leave a lot of uncertainty as to what individual companies are going to do in major areas," Evans said. He said the government did not intend to change its resource rent taxation (RRT) legislation, now before parliament, in response to industry calls to allow all exploration expenditure in a given area to be deductible. As previously reported, RRT is a tax of 40 pct limited to highly prospective offshore areas, based on profits after a certain rate of return has been achieved for individual projects. APEA has said it is not a true profit-based tax because exploration deductibility is limited to successful projects. Evans said the decision not to change RRT was based more than anything on the government's desire to ensure the certainty and stability of the new regime, adding that major investments have already been planned on the existing ground rules.
Ecuador is accepting bids from companies wishing to explore for crude oil in a 1.2-million-hectare area in the southeast of the country, a spokesman for the Ecuadorian State Oil Company (CEPE) said. The spokesman said companies have until October 15 to present their bids and until the middle of next year to sign contracts. Competitors may bid for six alternative 200,000-hectare areas, in the southeast forest bordering Peru and in the western coastal plain around the Pacific. Petrocanada will start by drilling two exploratory wells in a 200,000 hectare area.
Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.2 pct in May, the worst level since the government started compiling unemployment statistics in 1953, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The May rate surpassed the previous record of 3.0 pct marked set in January and April this year. It was also up sharply from 2.7 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted May unemployment totalled 1.91 mln people, up from 1.90 mln in April and 1.62 mln a year earlier. An agency official blamed industrial restructuring and the strong yen for the rise in unemployment. The seasonally adjusted male unemployment rate in May rose to a record 3.2 pct, surpassing the previous record 3.0 pct set in July 1986. This compares with 2.9 pct in April and 2.7 pct a year earlie. Unadjusted male unemployment totalled 1.12 mln, up 180,000 from a year earlier. The female unemployment rate in May was unchanged from April at a record 3.1 pct. A year ago, the rate was 2.8 pct. Unadjusted female unemployment rose 100,000 to 790,000. The yen's appreciation continued to affect employment in manufacturing industries and the total employed in May fell 210,000 or 1.5 pct from a year earlier to 14.10 mln.
Australia's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to 8.4 pct of the estimated workforce in March from 8.2 pct in February and 7.9 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said. The number of jobless rose to 650,700 from 631,900 in February and 593,200 a year earlier, the Bureau said. Unadjusted, the number of unemployed rose to 702,600 from 699,600 in February but the rate eased to 9.0 pct from 9.1, reflecting a slight increase in the estimated workforce. In March 1986, 640,400 persons, or 8.5 pct of the workforce, were out of work.
The European Community (EC) is to boost spending to help the jobless this year. The EC's executive commission said in a statement spending on its so-called social fund would rise to 3.1 billion European Currency Units from 2.5 billion ECUs in 1986. The fund is designed to help boost job creation and improve worker mobility, and supplement national schemes in the EC's 12 member states. Another 60 mln ECUs could be added if EC ministers switch unused project credits to other programs, the Commission said. Italy is the largest net beneficiary in 1987, getting 635 mln ECUs, with Britain in second place with 580 mln.
Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.0 pct in January, the worst since the Government started compiling unemployment statistics under its current system in 1953, up from the previous record 2.9 pct in December, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted January unemployment totalled 1.82 mln people, up from 1.61 mln in December and 1.65 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in January remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-worst level set last December. Record male unemployement of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment in January remained at 3.0 pct, equal to the record level marked in April, August, September and December last year. January's record 3.0 pct unemployment rate mainly stemmed from loss of jobs in manufacturing industries, particularly in export-related firms, due to the yen's continuing appreciation against the dollar, officials said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 380,000 from a year earlier to 14.30 mln including 1.83 mln employed in the textile industry, down 190,000 from a year earlier, and 1.06 mln in transport industries such as carmakers and shipbuilders, down 170,000.
World governments should prepare for an inevitable significant increase in the price of oil as non-Middle East supplies diminish, Exxon Corp XON> director and senior vice-president Donald McIvor said. Policymakers must also face up to the reality that the bulk of world oil reserves lies in the Middle East, he said in a speech prepared for delivery to the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA) annual conference. It appears ever more likely that new discoveries elsewhere will not change this fact, he said. McIvor said 37 of the world's 30,000 oil fields contain about 35 pct of all oil ever discovered. Only 11 of these 37 super-giant fields lie outside the Middle East and only five of the 37 have been discovered in the last 20 years, three of them in the Middle East, he said. He also said that since 1970, the world has been consuming 20 to 25 billion barrels a year while making discoveries at the rate of only 10 to 15 billion barrels a year. More than half of remaining proved reserves are in the Middle East, he said. McIvor said it was important to continue to search for oil outside the Middle East because each addition contributes to a diversity of supply desirable for global political and economic stability. "It is important to enhance the likelihood of home-country discoveries with measures such as non-discriminatory and stable taxation, and minimum regulation, together with opening up of acreage for exploration," he said. Increasing reliance on the Middle East will also boost the incentive to use natural gas and synthetic sources of petroleum, he added.
Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years.
The offshore oil drilling industry will attract increasing numbers of government connected firms in the 1990s, according to Ronald Tappmeyer, Vice Chairman of Reading and Bates Drilling Co. Tappmeyer told the Offshore Technology Conference that contract drilling was reaching the same kind of situation that oil producing companies reached when their oilfields were nationalized in nations as Venezuela, Iran and Saudi Arabia. He said local connections to the nation whose waters are being drilled was an increasingly important factor in the market. "We have seen contractors put at competitive disadvantages in nations in which they had worked successfully for years essentially moved aside to make room for locally-owned firms or a locally-built rig," he said. Tappmeyer, who is president of the International Association of Drilling Contractors, said how far the trend would spread depends on the growth of trade protectionism. He added that international contractors will increasingly find their role restricted to regions that require special expertise and experience, such as wildcat areas and severe environments such as in the Arctic and extremely deep waters. Tappmeyer also said he expects producing companies to provide the main financing for offshore drilling in the coming decade as banks will be unwilling to repeat overexposing themselves and drilling contractors will have difficulty providing financing out of cash flow. At the same time, he said he saw the financing as indirect as he does not see producers getting back in the rig-owning business. He also said projectfinancing will have to be backed up by work commitments to guarantee the payoff of construction costs. For the time being, he said there was a superabundance of rigs. But he said there will be a need for new, technologically advanced rigs within a few years. He said the floating-drilling rigs were most likely to benefit from new developments in technology, adding that by 2,000 there should not be an ocean left that is too deep, too cold, too stormy or too remote to be explored.
Union Pacific Corp said it has closed the previously announced 50-50 partnership with Petroleos de Venezuela SA, Venezuela's national oil company, to own a 160,000 barrel per day refinery in Corpus Christi, Texas. Union Pacific said the partnership, called Champlin Refining Co, will acquire the refining and distribution system owned and operated by Union Pacific's Champlin Petroleum Co subsidiary. The Venezuelan company also signed a 25-year feedstock agreement with the partnership to supply at least 140,000 barrels a day of Venezuelan crude oil and naphtha at market related prices.
Colombian oil installations were not damaged by an earthquake which shook Ecuador and southern Colombia last night and there are no plans to suspend exports, a spokesman for the state-run oil company Ecopetrol said. He said no damage was reported, unlike in Ecuador where indefinite force majeure was declared on crude exports. Colombia currently produces about 360,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude. Exports in january totalled 123,000 bpd. The quake, which in Colombia measured between 6.5 and seven on the 12-point international Mercalli scale, caused panic among residents but no injuries were reported.
Taiwan's unemployment rate fell to 2.03 pct of the labour force in March from 2.37 pct in February and 2.79 pct in March 1986, the government statistics department said. A department official said the decline was due to rising employment in the manufacturing sector, including textiles and footwear. The unemployed totalled 163,000 in March against 193,000 in February and 216,000 in March 1986. The labour force fell to 8.03 mln in March from 8.14 mln in February and 7.74 mln in March 1986, it said.
The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures.
The number of Spanish registered unemployed rose by 15,608 to 2.98 mln or 21.5 pct of the workforce in January in the sixth consecutive monthly increase, the Labour Ministry said. Registered unemployed totalled 2.81 mln or 21.1 pct of the workforce in February 1986.
Denmark's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to 7.9 pct of the workforce in January from 7.8 pct in December, unchanged from January 1986, the National Statistics Office said. The total of unemployed in January was 216,200 against 212,200 in December and 216,600 in January 1986.
Australia's seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate eased to 8.2 pct of the estimated workforce in February from 8.3 pct in January, compared with 7.9 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said. The number of unemployed declined to 632,100 from 638,300 in January, against 594,500 in February 1986, it said. But unadjusted, the number of jobless rose to 699,800 or 9.1 pct of the workforce from 671,400 or 8.9 pct in January and 658,500 or 8.7 pct a year earlier.
Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh arrived in Algiers at the head of a large delegation for talks on stabilizing oil prices, the official news agency APS said. In a brief arrival statement, he said Iran and Algeria were engaged in "continuous and stronger cooperation" on the world petroleum market and had "deployed considerable efforts to stablise petroleum prices." He was greeted on arrival by Belkacem Nabi, the Algerian Minister of Energy, Chemical and Petro-Chemical Industries.
Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp, said it lowered posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts with an effective date of October 16. The increase brings posted prices for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 19.00 dlrs a barrel each. South Louisiana Sweet was increased to 19.35 dlrs a barrel. Several indepndent oil companies such as Permian Corp and Coastal Corp CGP> said they had moved prices up effective last Friday the day Sun Co SUN> announced a 50 cts a barrel increase to 19.00 dlrs a barrel.
The government announced a three billion franc program to combat long-term unemployment amid speculation among political and economic analysts that it is positioning itself for a period of economic reflation. The package presented to the cabinet of Prime Minister Jacques Chirac by Social Affairs and Labour Minister Philippe Seguin today is to be financed out of a 7.5 billion franc contingency fund announced on February 25. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur previously ruled out a reflationary program. Long-term unemployment, defined as being out of work for more than one year, affects about 830,000 people or one third of French unemployed, government figures show. The main measures of the employment program give employers financial incentives to offer short-term work contracts of at least two years and stress retraining to help the long-term unemployed return to the labour market. Training subsidies and exemptions from social security contributions are the main incentives for employers. "Companies tell us that we have to give them a strong incentive to take on people who have fallen out of the labour market and that's why the proposals...Are costly," an aide to Seguin said. The analysts said speculation the government is considering a reflationary program was sparked by Chirac spokesman Denis Baudouin, who said yesterday that ministers were generally agreed on the desirability of relaunching the economy. He appeared to contradict statements by Balladur ruling out economic stimulation despite the government's revision of its 1987 growth forecast to about 2.0 pct from 2.8. Finance ministry officials later clarified Baudouin's remarks, saying there was no question of any move to stimulate the economy through a boost to consumer spending although government policy allowed for increased industrial investment from the proceeds of France's five-year privatisation plan. The 1987 budget allowed for 30 billion francs in revenue from privatisation, to be split between repaying national debt and providing state enterprises with fresh capital. Some political analysts said Baudouin's comments possibly reflect widening differences within the RPR-UDF coalition on social issues ahead of next year's presidential elections. Divisions began to show last December, when a wave of strikes led by transport workers paralysed the country and drove the government into a new mood of conciliation with labour. Officials said that after the success of the privatisation of Cie de Saint Gobain SGEP.PA> and Cie Financiere de Paribas PARI.PA> the government had decided to speed up its five-year privatisation program with the aim of completing a third of it this year, ahead of the presidential elections expected in 1988. The accelerated program could provide additional unbudgeted revenue to boost industrial and research investment and spending on infrastructure such as the national motorway network. The government also today revived a proposal, blocked last year by Socialist president Francois Mitterrand, to encourage more flexible working hours, which it says will boost jobs by improving the competitiveness of French industry. The proposals allowing night-shift work by women and variations in the standard 39-hour working week are to be put to parliament as a self-contained draft bill after being vetoed for procedural reasons by Mitterrand and later the Council of State.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in the week ended March 7 from 373,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,507,000 in the week ended Feb 28, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,477,000 the previous week.
A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging implications for national security. The Energy Department study discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes no recommendations. President Reagan and most Congressmen have previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and to help the depressed domestic oil industry. Energy Secretary John Herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." The report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S. consumption and by the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. Among the report's options to ease U.S. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the Reagan Administration. President Reagan ordered the study last September, citing a determination that the country never again become captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. The report said an import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for U.S. oil firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. The study was outlined in a New York Times report today.
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said he sees the oil market continuing bullish, with underlying demand expected to rise later in the year. He told a press conference in Jakarta at the end of a two-day meeting of South-East Asian Energy Ministers that he saw prices stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel. "The sentiment in the market is bullish and I think it will continue that way as demand will go up in the third or fourth quarters," Subroto said. Asked about the prospect for oil prices, he said: "I think they will stabilise around 18 dlrs, although there is a little turbulence ..." "Of course the spot price will fluctuate, but the official price will remain at 18 dlrs," he added.
Five regional oil producing nations will gather in Caracas tommorrow for a two-day meeting expected to center on ways to combat proposals for a U.S. tax on imported petroleum, the Venezuela's ministry of energy and mines said. Oil ministers from Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Ecuador and Venezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the informal group of Latin American and Caribbean Petroleum Exporters, formed in 1983, it said. Colombia will also attend for the first time, as an observer nation, the ministry said. Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said the conference has no set agenda but one entire session Friday will be devoted to proposals for a tax on imported oil. Two of the group's members, Venezuela and Mexico, are second and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the United States, respectively, following Canada. Venezuela, concerned about the effect such a tax would have on its exports, undertook a diplomatic push to coordinate strategy against such measures. In February, Canadian Energy Minister Marcel Masse was invited to Caracas for talks with Hernandez on proposals for an oil import tax.
West German unemployment, unadjusted for seasonal factors, fell to 2.41 mln in March from 2.49 mln in February, the Federal Labour Office said. The total represents 9.6 pct of the workforce compared with 10.0 pct in February. The seasonally adjusted jobless total rose, however, in March to 2.23 mln from 2.18 mln in February, it added. In March last year the unadjusted unemployment total stood at 2.45 mln and represented 9.8 pct of the workforce. Seasonally adjusted unemployment was 2.29 mln. The Federal Labour Office said the number of workers on short time rose by 80,629 to 462,802 and the number of vacancies increased by 15,263 to 180,047. Labour Office President Heinrich Franke, announcing the figures, said the hesitant decline in the unadjusted jobless total reflected continuing bad weather, slack activity in the capital goods sector and structural changes in the coal and steel industry. In a separate statement, the Federal Statistics Office said the rise in the overall number of people in employment had slowed in February. The Office said that, according to estimates for February, 25.7 mln people were in work, a rise of around 240,000 or 0.9 pct compared with the same month in 1986. It noted that in January the year-on-year rise was 250,000 or 1.0 pct and the number in work stood at 25.78 mln. The decline in February compared with January reflected seasonal factors, it added.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 355,000 in the week ended March 21 from 341,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,480,000 in the week ended March 14, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,454,000 the previous week.
Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose slightly in the U.S. and the Mediterranean last Friday from the previous week but were lower elsewhere, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline. The soft tone to refining margins reflects large worldwide stocks of petroleum products and thin trading activity, traders said. In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by as much as 26 cts a barrel for West Texas Intermediate, an increase of 1.4 pct from the previous Friday, while sour crudes, such as Alaska North Slope, were up one pct. In the Mediterranean, netback values were up 17 cts to 22 cts a barrel, with Arab Light up 17 cts a barrel to 18.62 dlrs, a 0.9 pct increase from the previous Friday and Urals were up 22 cts a barrel to 19.16 dlrs, a 1.2 pct increase. But netbacks for crude oil refined in Northern Europe was generally lower with Brent valued at 18.89 dlrs, off 30 cts from the previous friday, and Bonny Light was off 17 cts to 19.58 dlrs a barrel. Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower, with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. On the U.S. West Coast, however, netback values for ANS CIF L.A. were weaker with weak gasoline prices sending the yield at cracking plants down 68 cts to 18.42 dlrs from the previous Friday, as shown below in dlrs a barrel. TOPPING.........15.63......16.10......14.30 CRACKING........18.42......19.10......16.86 The Mediterranean region also showed netback values rising last Friday over the previous week with the largest gains shown by Es Sider and the heavier Urals crude oil, which were each up 22 cts a barrel last Friday to 19.40 dlrs and 19.16 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Netback values for the mediterranean region are shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ES SIDER........19.40......19.18......16.44 ARAB LIGHT......18.61......18.44......15.52 IRAN LT.........19.25......19.08......16.16 KUWAIT..........18.51......18.33......15.42 URALS cif.......19.16......18.94......16.07 Netbacks in Northern Europe's refinery region were lower last friday from the previous week with Brent falling 1.6 pct to 18.89 dlrs a barrel. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Northern Europe are shown below in dlrs a barrel. ................MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 BRENT...........18.89......19.19......16.77 BONNY LIGHT.....19.58......19.75......17.15 ARAB LIGHT......18.49......18.52......16.07 URALS CIF.......19.02......18.98......16.54 Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Singapore are shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ATTAKA..........19.23......19.24......16.72 ARAB LIGHT......18.00......18.10......15.55 OMAN............18.21......18.25......16.31 DUBAI...........18.09......18.21......15.86 ARAB HEAVY......16.63......16.73......14.24
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 338,000 in the week ended March 28 from 355,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,436,000 in the week ended March 21, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was down from 2,480,000 the previous week.
U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel said there was a one in five chance that new drilling in Alaska would find oil. "But if it's there, there's a very good chance that it would be a giant field," Hodel said on ABC's "Good Morning America." "So it is the best geological prospect that they (geologists) have talked to me about since I've been involved in this process," he said. Hodel announced yesterday that he would urge Congress to open up 1.5 mln acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil exploration despite fears of environmental damage threatening the Caribou herd in the region. He said today the exploration was needed in an effort to prevent future U.S. oil shortages and said oil drilling in the large Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska proved oil could be drilled without severely damaging the environment. He said the Caribou herd at Prudhoe Bay had tripled, contrary to concerns before the drilling operation that it would endanger the herd.
Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. The economists said the service sector should grow as the government stimulates domestic demand under its program to transform the economy away from exports. Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower than those of other industrialised nations, methods for calculating statistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned. "The three pct figure could translate into a relatively high figure if European methods were used," one economist said. More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from a year earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo's Tsukihara said.
Spain's registered unemployment fell by 10,465 people to 2.97 mln or 21.4 pct of the workforce in March, Labour Ministry figures show. Registered unemployment in February was 2.98 mln people, or 21.5 pct of the workforce. The figures were nonetheless higher than those for March 1986 -- 2.8 mln people and 21 pct of the workforce.
China's oil drilling industry is one of the few bright spots in the international oilpatch with about 1,000 rigs currently working and annual increases of 80-100 expected through the end of the century, a Chinese petroleum official said. "In China, production concentrates on the domestic market, and does not depend on the international price of oil," Zhai Guang Ming, a director of the Chinese Ministry of Petroleum, told Reuters. Chinese oil sold within the nation's borders is priced at about one-third the 18 dlr a barrel benchmark price established by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Zhai said in an interview at the World Petroleum Congress. The optimism in China is in sharp contrast to the United States where weak oil prices have prompted a steep fall in the number of active rigs from a 1981 peak of 4,500 to only 765 last week according to the latest Baker Hughes Co rig count. At this time, China actually has more rigs in operation than any other country in the world, said Xianglin Hou, another member of the 20-man Chinese delegation at the Houston meeting. But this does not mean good news for the sagging oilfield equipment industry in the rest of the world, said Bryan Walman, international sales manager for Reed Tool Co in Houston. Walman said more than 90 pct of China's drilling activity is on land and under the control of the Chinese government which requires local manufacture of drilling equipment. But U.S. and other western nations do provide equipment for China's fledgling offshore projects as well as participate in the actual drilling, he said. Amoco Corp AN>, for example, has reported a discovery in 1,000 feet of water in the South China Sea. "We're encouraged," said Alfred Munk, manager of Amoco's foreign affairs, "but we need substantial reserves before we can do commercial production in a remote area like that." Zhai estimated that current Chinese oil production of 130 mln tonnes a year should rise to total 200 mln tonnes annually by the year 2,000. Chinese crude reserves total 23.6 billion barrels, with ultimate resources estimated at 69.3 billion barrels.
An oil import fee could cost consumers nearly 17 billion dlrs a year and undermine long-term U.S. energy security by leading to a quicker depletion of domestic reserves, a Federal Trade Commission study said. The study by the FTC's bureau of economics found that a five dlr a barrel tariff on crude oil and gasoline oil imports would increase costs to consumers by 14 to 16.7 billion dlrs a year. After weighing the benefits of such a tariff against the costs, the study found a five dlr a barrel import fee would have a net cost to the economy of 3.6 billion dlrs a year. Several oil import fee proposals ranging from two to 10 dlrs a barrel have been made in Congress in an effort to cut the federal budget deficit and maintain the momentum for energy conservation programs, which have been hurt by cheaper oil. But by making foreign oil more expensive, the tariffs would reduce oil imports and force greater consumption of domestic oil, which would deplete U.S. reserves faster, the study found. "Any attempt to increase our energy security by limiting imports will actually reduce our long-run energy security by speeding the depletion of domestic reserves," the study said. The five dlr a barrel tariff would also cut domestic petroleum refiners' profits by 7.5 to 10 billion dlrs a year, increase domestic crude oil producers' profits by about 13 billion dlrs a year and raise government revenues by 6.7 to 8.2 billion dlrs a year, the FTC said. Under the Reagan administration, the FTC has consistently opposed government regulation of the oil industry at the state and federal levels. "This study backs up my belief that government regulation and interference with competition hurt both the market and consumers," FTC Chairman Daniel Oliver said in a statement.
French unemployment rose to a record seasonally adjusted 2.65 mln in February from 2.61 mln in January and 2.57 mln at the end of last year, the Labour Ministry said. The rise took the percentage of the workforce out of a job to 11.0 pct last month from 10.9 pct in January and 10.7 pct at the end of 1986. In unadjusted terms unemployment fell by around 30,000 last month to 2.70 mln.
The number of workers employed in the West German industrial sector stagnated in the last quarter of 1986 as a 50,000 increase in overall employment benefited only the services branch, the DIW economic institute said. A DIW report added the general downturn in the economy since last Autumn had had a negative effect on the willingness of firms to take on workers. It referred to a marked downturn in the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector. New orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostly fallen or stagnated in recent months, but data for February finally showed a reversal of the trend, with a 1.9 pct rise.
The "cross field allowance" relief on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) announced by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson this week will favour smaller non-PRT paying fields, according to stockbrokers Wood Mackenzie and Co. The cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct of qualifying spending on a new oil field against PRT liability of other fields. It is restricted to new offshore developments outside the southern basin and yet to gain Annex B approval. A report by the stockbrokers said that on a new field not paying PRT due to its small size, the relief would directly benefit in PRT saving on an existing field. "The cross field allowance will mainly benefit participators in those fields which have no PRT liability," the report said, adding that the timing of development of such fields may be advanced. The government would in effect be subsidising these developments at 7.5 pct of capital expenditure before corporation tax, the report said. On fields likely to pay PRT in the future, the benefit is of timing. Although liabilities on other existing fields will be reduced immediately, liabilities on larger new fields will rise in the future due to the loss of offsets, it said. In a study on probable fields, the report said that when the rates of return are examined, the rise for a PRT-paying field such as Miller, the largest undeveloped oil field in the U.K. North Sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise for a small non-PRT paying field such as Kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9 pct. The report added that in fields which pay PRT, there will be a cost in being able to have this early relief. Not only will these costs be unavailable for offset against the field's future profits, but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs will be lost. Thus, a saving of PRT of 100 when field development starts will have to be matched by a rise in PRT of 135 at a later time.
Papua New Guinea (PNG) provides the most exciting new prospect in the Asia-Pacific region for oil production, energy analyst Fereidun Fesharaki said here. The recent successful find at Iagifu is likely to put PNG on the list of major oil exporters by the early 1990s, he told the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association annual conference. Fesharaki, leader of the Energy Program at the East-West Center in Honolulu, Hawaii, was speaking on the Asia-Pacific petroleum outlook. With domestic demand of around 12,000 barrels per day (bpd) and prospects of production of over 100,000 bpd by late 1991, PNG would become an Ecuador-level crude exporter, Fesharaki said. The Iagifu wells in the Papuan Basin have recorded the best oil flows in more than 60 years of exploration in PNG. The PNG government's Geological Survey in a paper distributed at the conference estimates Iagifu reserves at about 500 mln barrels. PNG enjoys the most liberal tax regime in the region with no secondary taxes, Fesharaki said. "We expect a much larger oil search in Papua New Guinea, and discovery of much larger volumes of oil, similar in quality to (light) Bass Strait crude," Fesharaki said. There are also large pockets of high quality condensates to be produced, notably in the Juha field near Iagifu which is capable of producing 30,000 to 40,000 bpd, he said. But prices should be somewhat higher than the present levels to justify development of the Juha field, he said. The PNG Geological Survey paper noted there are five large prospective but little-explored sedimentary basins in PNG.
U.K. Unemployment fell a record provisional, seasonally-adjusted 64,300 in May to a total 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, the Employment Department said. In April, seasonally-adjusted unemployment fell by an upwardly revised 21,600 to 3.02 mln or 10.9 pct, it said. The unadjusted jobless total in May, including school leavers, alos fell a record 121,000 to 2.99 mln or 10.8 pct from April's 3.11 mln, 11.2 pct. May was the eleventh successive decline from a peak last summer of 11.6 pct, the Employment Department said. "Unemployment has fallen to under three mln for the first time in over three years. The May fall of 64,000 was the largest drop since records were first kept (in 1948)," Employment Minister Norman Fowler said. All regions have seen above average falls in long term unemployment during the past year, he added. The last time the adjusted total of unemployed was below three mln was July 1984, while the unadjusted total was last below this level in June 1983.
New Zealand's unemployment rate fell to 6.0 pct of the workforce at the end of February from 6.1 pct in January but was above the 4.3 pct level of February 1986, the labour department said. It said the number of unemployed fell to 78,711 from 81,558 in January, and compared with 57,103 in February 1986.
New Zealand's unemployment rate was 3.9 pct of the workforce in the quarter ended December 31, unchanged from a revised 3.9 pct (preliminary 3.8 pct) in the previous quarter but slightly above 3.8 pct in the year-earlier quarter, the Statistics Department said. The Department, citing the Household Labour Force Survey, said in a statement the number of unemployed in October- December 1986 was 61,500 against 60,500 in the September quarter and 60,500 a year earlier.
The growing shift of low-skilled manufacturing jobs from the United States to Mexican border cities is not a threat to American employment because it will help create new markets for products, according to a study released today. Richard Bolin, director of the Flagstaff Institute of Arizona, which studies international trade issues, said the United States needs to encourage the expansion of manufacturing in developing countries so that those nations can become consumers of more U.S. goods. His study was commissioned by the border city of McAllen, Texas, for presentation to the International Trade Commission which is gathering information for a report to Congress on what changes may be needed in the U.S. tariff codes to prevent the loss of jobs and industry. McAllen and other Texas border cities have benefitted from a trend among U.S. companies to build twin plants that employ factory workers on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border. More than 700 manufacturers are taking advantage of lenient tax codes that allow U.S. companies to bring raw goods into Mexico for assembly by low-skilled workers into products that are completed by U.S. workers at a nearby sister plant. Bolin said his research indicated that the shift in low-paying jobs across the border reflected changing demographics of the U.S. workforce. "In the post-baby boom era, fewer workers will be available to fill these low-skill jobs -- and these workers will be better educated than prior generations," Bolin told reporters in McAllen. "The jobs in low-tech industries that are being exported to other countries are, for the most part, jobs that we may not be able to fill in the future." U.S. employment in less-skilled manufacturing jobs plunged by more than 900,000 between 1977 and 1982, largely due to the transfer of jobs outside U.S. borders, he said. American employment in high-tech industries increased by 634,000 during the same period, he said. But high-tech industries, those in which engineers make up more than six percent of the workforce, pay higher wages and generate more U.S. exports than low-tech businesses, he said.
U.S. Department of Energy Secretary John Herrington said he was "optimistic" about the chances of providing a more generous depletion allowance for oil and gas producers, but added that the plan faces strong opposition from some members of the Reagan administration. Herrington, speaking to Houston oil executives at a breakfast meeting, said administration debate over his plan for a 27.5 pct annual depletion allowance was "heavy and strong" largely because of some fears that the U.S. oil industry could eventually become as dependent on federal subsidies as the agriculture industry. Herrington's proposed tax incentives for the oil industry were issued last week after the Department of Energy released a comprehensive report finding U.S. national security could be jeopardized by rising oil imports. In response to a question from Mitchell Energy and Development Corp MND> chairman, George Mitchell, Herrington said the report did not definitively rule out an oil import tarrif. "We intend to keep that debate open," Herrington said. However, following his speech, Herrington told Reuters that the new report shows an oil import fee "is not economical." Herrington said, for example, a 10 dlr per barrel tariff on oil imports would cause the nation's gross national product to drop by as much as 32 billion dlrs. Herrington also said he believed President Reagan, who requested the comprehensive national security study, was committed to some action to help the ailing U.S. oil industry. "I'm quite confident he understands the problems and is prepared to do something about it," Herrington said.
Energy futures now set the standard for oil pricing, said Arnold Safer, president of The Energy Futures Group Inc, a consulting firm. "Petroleum futures trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange literally set spot market prices in the U.S.," he said, adding that some oil products sellers now offer contracts based on a daily average of NYMEX prices. He also said that petroleum futures are a major market for oil companies as well as for commodity traders. His remarks were made at the National Petroleum Refiners Association.
Southland Corp's subsidiary Citgo Petroleum said it raised its posted prices for crude oil across the board by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. Citgo said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet is now posted at 19.35, the company said.
Swedish unemployment was steady at 2.2 pct of the workforce in March compared with the previous month, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. In March 1986, the figure stood at 2.4 pct.
Malaysia's state oil company Petronas will cut oil production to 420,000 barrels per day (bpd) from May 1, trade sources said. Malaysia cut its 510,000 bpd target output by 10 pct last September to support Opec moves to boost prices, and the latest cut would reduce output by 17.5 pct from 1986's target level. Petronas said in February that Malaysia would maintain its 10 pct production cutback until mid-1987. However, the Finance Ministry said in its annual report that Malaysia's crude oil output was expected to rise to an average 510,000 bpd in 1987. The ministry's forecast assumed average 1987 crude prices at 13 dlrs/barrel (bbl), but prices have risen enough to permit further production cutbacks, the sources said. Malaysia's benchmark Tapis blend fetched above 18 dlrs/bbl this year against a low of 10.50 dlrs/bbl in July, they said. Traders said further reductions by Malaysia would add to the tight spot availabilities of Asian grades caused by reduced Indonesian and Chinese crude output. The cutback will also help Malaysia maintain prices, as there is concern some buyers want to reduce term purchases due to the availability of cheaper alternatives, the sources said. In addition to term sales, Petronas has been offering two to three 400,000 bbl spot cargoes of Malaysian crude each month for sale through tender, the sources said. However, this practice is likely to dwindle given the reduced scale of production, they said.
Saudi riyal interbank deposits were steady at yesterday's higher levels in a quiet market. Traders said they were reluctant to take out new positions amidst uncertainty over whether OPEC will succeed in halting the current decline in oil prices. Oil industry sources said yesterday several Gulf Arab producers had had difficulty selling oil at official OPEC prices but Kuwait has said there are no plans for an emergency meeting of the 13-member organisation. A traditional Sunday lull in trading due to the European weekend also contributed to the lack of market activity. Spot-next and one-week rates were put at 6-1/4, 5-3/4 pct after quotes ranging between seven, six yesterday. One, three, and six-month deposits were quoted unchanged at 6-5/8, 3/8, 7-1/8, 6-7/8 and 7-3/8, 1/8 pct respectively. The spot riyal was quietly firmer at 3.7495/98 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7500/03 yesterday.
The Emirates Industrial Bank has predicted a modest economic recovery in the Gulf Arab states following higher oil revenues. A bank study, carried by the Emirates news agency WAM, said total oil revenues of the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries were likely to reach 39 billion dlrs this year from 33.5 billion in 1986. The GCC groups Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The bank said the improvement would result from higher oil prices made possible by last December's OPEC accord to restrain overall group production. These curbs have pushed up oil prices from around eight dollars a barrel in mid-1986 to around 18 dlrs. "All signs point to the possibility of a modest recovery in the economies of these (GCC) countries, although this expected growth will not be similar to that of the (1970s) boom years," the study said. It added, however, that GCC states would experience higher budget deficits this year because of needs arising from past recession and the difficulty of making fresh spending cuts. The study said the combined GCC bugdet deficits would rise to 23.2 billion dlrs from 17.9 billion last year. It said lower oil exports cut the GCC states' combined trade surplus to 18 billion dlrs in 1986 from 21.5 billion in 1985. The UAE suffered a 19.5 pct drop in gross domestic product to 77.6 billion dirhams last year from 96.4 billion in 1985, it added.
Bank profits in the Gulf oil state of Qatar are coming under renewed pressure and foreign banks are retrenching further in one of the region"s most overbanked markets. Results for 1986 show a year of declining profit for several foreign banks, although locally-owned operations were in some cases able to cushion the drop by increasing market share. Qatar National Bank SAQ>"s (QNB) General Manager, Abdulla Khalid al-Attiya, said: "The economy is not improving as we hoped... 1987 will be another difficult year for the banks." Oil-dependent Qatar, with a tiny indigenous population of 60,000 to 80,000 and an expatriate workforce estimated at about 280,000, boasts five local banks and 10 foreign bank operations. Local and foreign bankers in the capital said the Gulf-wide recession, aggravated this year by Qatar"s severe difficulty marketing its crude oil at official OPEC prices, has taken a heavy toll on the economy and bank profitability. As a result, the only U.S. Bank, Citibank NA>, is thought to be negotiating to sell its operation to the fast growing locally based Al Ahli Bank of Qatar QSC> which only started operations in 1984, bankers said. Citibank would not comment. Other foreign banks have retrenched, with Standard Chartered Bank> cutting staff and others expected to follow. Banque Paribas> is examining a change in its status to admit 51 pct Qatari ownership in a bid to improve its access to local business, bankers said. One banker added: "Weak profits are here to stay for the time being. There is no cause for optimism at the moment." Sentiment had picked up briefly at the end of last year when OPEC reached its accord to curb oil output and return to fixed prices. However, it soon became apparent that Qatar was having difficulty selling oil at OPEC prices. The soft spot oil market has left official Qatari crude prices 20 to 40 cents more expensive and sales have been running in recent weeks at 100,000 and 120,000 barrels per day, well down on the nation"s OPEC quota of 285,000, oil sources said. Bankers said this serious shortfall in Qatar"s revenue has led to a new spate of payments delays from the public sector to private contractors after a marginal improvement in January. Loan loss provisions continued to eat into bank profits last year, as did the introduction of minimum reserve requirements by the Qatar Monetary Agency. Trade financing has almost dried up as a traditional source of bank income. Of the local banks, QNB conducts the bulk of the government"s business and subsequently enjoys a huge advantage its rivals cannot expect to match, bankers said. The bank reported a 2.9 pct rise in net 1986 profit to 93.1 mln Qatari riyals, while its balance sheet grew by 10.8 pct to 9.0 billion, making it by far the largest bank in Qatar. But the strong assets growth partly reflected bridging loans for the public and private sector to tide government departments and local business over the lean economic spell, Attiya said. "Generally speaking, we are overbanked in Qatar," he said, echoing a widespread feeling in the banking community. Other local banks fared less strongly. The second largest, Doha Bank Ltd QSC>, reported a 13 pct drop in net profit to 27.5 mln riyals, while Commercial Bank of Qatar Ltd QSC>, registered a decline to 18.5 mln riyals from 19.4 mln in 1985. The newcomer Al Ahli Bank, continued to expand rapidly and reported net profit of 5.2 mln compared with 3.3 mln during the start-up period from August 4, 1984 to end-1985. Bankers said the local banks had clearly begun to win commercial deposits previously held by foreign banks, increasing already strong pressure on non-Qatari banks to reexamine their staffing levels and overheads. Grindlays Bank PLC> recorded a net loss at its Doha branch last year of 4.7 mln riyals after registering a nominal profit in 1985 of 12,000 riyals. Two other long-established banks in the Gulf, the British Bank of the Middle East> (BBME) and Standard Chartered, also found last year a difficult climate to make strong profits. BBME"s net profit fell to 3.2 mln riyals from 10.4 mln in 1985, but Assistant Manager John Farquharson said 1985"s result had been artificially inflated by tax rebates on provisions. "Foreign banks are seeing their assets decline, while local banks are increasing their market share," Farquharson said. BBME"s operating profit was steady in 1986, edging up to 12.3 mln riyals from 11.5 mln in 1985. "We are expecting the same level of operating profit in 1987," Farquharson said. Standard Chartered"s net profit last year recovered slightly to 1.6 mln riyals after a loss of 161,000 in 1985. Staff numbers were cut last year to reduce overheads. Bankers said the lack of new construction projects in Qatar means business is unlikely to pick up this year although hopes are rising that the start of Qatari gas exploitation could provide a boost. But the threat of higher U.S. Interest rates may erode bank deposits as savings are moved offshore.
Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 8.8 mln barrels in the week ended March six to 119.6 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department of Energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 500,000 barrels in the week to 251.0 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks fell 1.2 mln barrels to 331.8 mln. The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 1.5 mln barrels to 36.4 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 200,000 barrels to 516.7 mln. The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks fell 10.3 mln barrels to 1,564.8, it said.
Iraq's Oil Minister Qassem Ahmed Taqi has been moved to the Heavy Industries ministry, the official Iraqi news agcny INA said tonight. It quoted a Presidential decree appointing Oil Ministry undersecretary Isam Abdul-Rahim Al-Chalaby as the new Oil Minister. The Ministers of Industry and Communication and Transport had both been relieved of their posts, the news agency said. No immediate explanation was given for the changes. Al-Chalaby is the head of the Iraqi National Oil Company. INA said the decree, signed by President Saddam Hussein, relieved the Minister of Heavy Industries, Subhi Yassin Khadeir of his post and appointed him a Presidential adviser. His ministry was formerly known as the Industry and Mineral Resources Ministry. The Minister of Communications and Transport, Abdel-Jabbar Abdel-Rahim al-Asadi was also relieved of his post and replaced by a member of the ruling Baath party regional command, Mohammed Hamza al-Zubeidi. Al-Zubedei is also a Presidential adviser. All three ministers involved in the reshuffle had spent more than four years in their posts.
Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell to 2.9 pct in February from the record 3.0 pct in January, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. The January level was the worst since the Goverment started compiling unemployment statistics under the current system in 1953. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted February unemployment totalled 1.86 mln people, up from 1.82 mln in January and 1.64 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in February remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-highest level set in January and December. Record male unemployment of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment rose to a record 3.1 pct in February from the previous record 3.0 pct marked in January 1987 and in April, August, September and December last year. "Japan's employment condition was still severe in February as the non-rounded rate of unemployment in February fell only 0.03 percentage points to 2.93 pct from 2.96 pct in January," an agency official said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 430,000 from a year earlier to 14.22 mln people in February due to the yen's continued appreciation, while employment in non-manufacturing industries rose 380,000 to 12.11 mln. In manufacturing industries, employment in the textile industry fell 180,000 to 1.94 mln in February, while in ordinary and precision machinery industries it fell 160,000 to 1.50 mln.
Saudi Arabia will not seek to push OPEC oil prices above the current benchmark of 18 dlrs per barrel unless oil demand grows strongly, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) said. The Cyprus-based weekly newsletter quoted authoritative Saudi sources as saying the Kingdom's oil price policy would not change "unless and until there is a strong revival in the growth of demand for oil." MEES said this contradicted recent hints of new Saudi price hawkishness from U.S. Congressional and oil industry sources. The Saudi sources said their policy was firmly based on the long-term need to restore the competitive position of oil in general and OPEC oil in particular against other energy sources. "Saudi Arabia is certainly committed to cooperating with its OPEC partners to exercise the necessary production restraint to maintain the 18 dlr per barrel reference price level," MEES said. The newsletter said Saudi output in the first three weeks of April averaged slightly above its OPEC quota of 4.133 mln barrels per day (bpd). Output would fall in the last week, causing the month's average to be below quota, MEES said. MEES estimated overall OPEC production for April at around 16.8-16.9 mln bpd -- two mln bpd more than both its figures for March and  estimates for March. It said Iranian production had risen by 500,000 bpd this month to 2.2-2.3 mln bpd, around its quota level. In Iraq, with an OPEC-assigned quota of 1.466 mln bpd, output rose this month to two mln bpd, not including "war relief" supplies from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the newsletter said. Nigeria, which has had problems selling its full 1.238 mln bpd entitlement, increased its output to 1.2 mln bpd, it added.
The 1992 deadline for abolishing economic barriers within the European Community should help French economic growth and create jobs, president of the French employers' federation CNPF Francois Perigot said. "Having a market at our disposal which is as homogeneous and accessible as that of Europe is an incredible piece of luck," he told Le Figaro in an interview. He said that the majority of French business leaders were enthusiastic about the abolition of barriers and saw it as an opportunity rather than a danger for their companies. "It can permit us to return to a growth rate which is much better than we could achieve in isolation. We know that we have to reestablish growth at three pct a year to solve the enormous problems confronting us -- and I am referring mainly to unemployment," Perigot added. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said yesterday that French growth would be just two pct this year, the same as last year and compared with the government's original 2.8 pct target.
Norwegian oil companies Norsk Hydro A/S NHY.OL> and Saga Petroleum A/S SAGO.OL> said they have applied for offshore exploration drilling licenses in Gabon on Africa's west coast. Saga Petroleum said it has applied for a 35 pct share and operatorship on one block, adding Finnish oil company Neste NEOY.HE>(25 pct), Spain's Hispanoil (25 pct), and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFS) (15 pct) have joined Saga to fill remaining shares in the application. Saga spokesman Roy Halvorsen told Reuters he expected Gabonese officials would reply to the application by Easter. Halvorsen said this is the first time Saga has applied to operate on OPEC-member Gabon's continental shelf, adding that Italian oil company Agip is heading a group of applicants in a separate bid for the same license. Norsk Hydro has also applied for an undisclosed share in a single exploration license in which U.S. Oil company Tenneco has already been assigned operatorship, company spokesman Bjoern Tretvoll said.
The Reagan Administration is considering tax incentives to boost oil output and restore 100,000 jobs, U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said. A tax credit for new exploration would be part of a package to bring 1,000 idle drilling rigs back into operation and raise domestic production by one mln barrels a day, he said. The tax status of exploration might also be changed, Herrington told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress. He said the oil industry was experiencing difficult times internationally and had been devastated in the United States. Consumer demand and a significant decline in domestic production has resulted in a rise in oil imports of one mln barrels a day in over the last 16 months, Herrington said. "Steps must be taken...To reverse the downturn in our domestic energy industry and to safeguard and increase our energy security," he said. The administration is committed to improving marketplace conditions and incentives to spur exploration and development. "This commitment includes rejecting quick fix solutions, like an oil import fee, which are bad for the United States and bad for the world," he added.
A government study has concluded the U.S. Will be dependent on oil from the middle east into the next century and must take steps to reduce its vulnerability, the New York Times said. The newspaper said the inter-agency government study found a serious oil-dependency problem due to steadily falling domestic production and rising demand for imported oil. The study concluded that by 1995 the U.S. Will be relying on foreign countries for 50 pct of its oil, more than the peak of 48 pct reached in 1977 and far above the 33 pct rate during the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo. The U.S. Now imports about 38 pct of its oil needs, up from 27 pct a year ago, the New York Times said. It said recommendations sent to the White House by Energy Secretary John Harrington include financial incentives to raise domestic oil production by one mln barrels a day from the current 8.4 mln barrels. The newspaper said the administration has placed increased emphasis on stockpiling oil reserves. It said the view now held is that the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to be tapped in times of shortages, should be increased by 100,000 barrels a day, rather than 35,000 as called for in the 1988 budget. The newspaper said Harrington may propose restoring the depletion allowance to major producers. "The administration also plans to renew its efforts to ...Repeal the windfall profits tax, remove bars to drilling on the outer continental shelf and repeal the law that limits the use of natural gas in industrial and utility boilers," it added. The New York Times quoted Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma as saying the study greatly underestimated potential U.S. Demand for imported oil in the next decade and overestimated the amount of domestic oil which would be produced.
Venezuela will lend Ecuador up to 12.5 mln barrels of crude oil to help it meet its export commitments and its domestic energy demand, Ecuadorean Energy and Mines Minister Javier Espinosa said today in a statement. Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting its jungle oil fields with the Pacific Ocean port of Balao was damaged last week by an earthquake. Venezuela would lend 50,000 barrels per day of crude for a total of up to to 7.5 mln barrels to help Ecuador meet export commitments, Espinosa said. Also, Venezuela will sell the crude and provide the foreign exchange earnings to Ecuador, he said. Ecuador would repay Venezuela in crude once it resumed its exports after repairing its pipeline to Balao, a task that would take an estimated five months. Venezuela is lending Ecuador five mln barrels of crude for refining in this country to meet domestic demand. Ecuador would repay that loan with crude once the oil pipeline is repaired. Both countries are the only Latin American members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Ecuador was exporting about 140,000 bpd before the earthquake, Energy Ministry officials said. Its total output was around 260,000 bpd.
Belgian unemployment, based on the number of jobless drawing unemployment benefit, fell to 11.8 pct of the working population at the end of March from 12.1 pct at end of February, the National Statistics Office said. The rate compares with 12.0 pct at the end of March, 1986. The total number of jobless stood at 495,208, compared with 508,392 in February and 504,652 in March last year.
Denmark's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell to 7.8 pct of the workforce in February from 7.9 pct in January, against 7.9 pct in February 1986, the National Statistics Office said. The total number of unemployed in February was 213,200 against 215,700 in January and 216,600 in February, 1986.
Swiss unemployment edged down to 0.9 pct of the working population from one pct in January and in February 1986, the Federal Office of Industry, Trade and Labour said. Seasonally adjusted, however, there was a slight rise in unemployment. The number out of work fell to 28,439, down 1,142 compared with the previous month. The number of vacant positions registered with employment offices stood at 11,968 against 10,694 in January.
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee that he believes the president remains opposed to an oil import fee. He said Reagan last year rejected the idea and he added: "In my personal view he is not likely to change his thinking on that." He said Reagan last year opposed the idea because the energy industry was divided on the issue, a tax would require a new bureacracy to administer and the resulting higher energy prices would harm U.S. competitiveness.
Dutch seasonally adjusted unemployment rose in the month to end-March to a total 693,000 from 690,600 at end-February, but was well down from 730,100 at end-March 1986, Social Affairs Ministry figures show. The figure for male jobless rose by 2,000 in the month to 436,500 compared with 470,700 a year earlier. The figure for women was 256,500 at end-March against 256,100 a month earlier and 259,400 at end-March 1986. On an unadjusted basis total unemployment fell by 16,500 in the month to end-March to 692,200. In March 1986 the figure was 725,000. A ministry spokesman said the unadjusted figures showed a smaller than usual seasonal decrease for the time of year, because of particularly cold weather delaying work in the building industry. He said this explained the increase in the adjusted statistics. Total vacancies available rose by 1,900 to 26,300 at end-March. A year earlier the figure was 28,763.
France's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 11.1 pct of the workforce at end-March compared with 11 pct at end-February, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE) said. The total number of unemployed edged up to 2.67 mln at end-March from 2.65 mln at end-February, an INSEE spokeswoman said.
Venezuela will lend Ecuador 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil over the next few months to help it meet its export commitments, Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said today. He said that under the terms of this loan, agreed during a visit here this week by Ecuador's Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite, Ecuador will begin repaying the loan in August. Hernandez Grisanti said the loan will go part way to offsetting the loss of Ecuador's 140,000 in exports caused by earthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week. Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of Balao was put out of action. Venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while Ecuador's is 210,000 bpd. Santos Alvite said Ecuador will ask OPEC to allow it to produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when the pipeline is repaired to offset present production losses. Hernandez Grisanti said also a first 300,000 barrels shipment of Venezuelan crude oil will leave for Ecuador this weekend to help meet domestic consumption needs. The oil, part of a five mln additional crude oil loan by Venezuela, will be processed at Guayaquil refineries. "If we had not supplied oil to Ecuador the life of this country would have ground to a halt," he said.
Indonesia told the oil industry on Tuesday it will extend contracts on producing blocks and improve the investment climate, but wants to see increased expenditure on exploration in return. President Suharto, in an opening speech to the Indonesian Petroleum Association, said Indonesia was ready to extend contracts held by foreign oil companies on producing areas. "In order to boost investment in the petroleum industry, the government of Indonesia has basically approved of extending production sharing contracts under the present laws," Suharto said. "Apart from that, the government will keep improving the investment climate in order to accelerate the development of the petroleum industry," he said. Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto told the Association he was aware that the oil industry needed to be assured that contracts on blocks expiring within the next 10 years would be renewed before they would invest in further exploration. "As we all have heard this morning, the President is fully aware of this situation," Subroto said. "The government has already made the political decision to entertain this time problem by inviting the existing producers to continue their activities in Indonesia, albeit on a selective basis." Indonesia, one of the 13 members of OPEC, must find new oil reserves if it is to remain an exporter in the next decade, oil industry sources say. Subroto said the government was also working to ease other problems, including granting easier terms for remote areas or deep water conditions. But Subroto said relations with oil companies were two-way and that they should step up expenditure on oil exploration now that the oil price had recovered. President Suharto said he wanted to see greater transfer of technology to Indonesian companies, and more help from the oil industry for the regions in which companies operated. Abdul Rachman Ramly, the President of state oil company Pertamina, has said that budgeted exploration and production expenditure for all oil companies in Indonesia was forecast to fall to 3.1 billion dlrs in calendar 1987 from 3.4 billion in 1986. Pertamina has 69 production-sharing or joint operation contracts with foreign oil companies. Subroto said speeding up necessary approvals for field operations was a government priority. There had been misunderstandings between the government and the oil industry in certain areas, such as when a field is designated commercial, and a thorough evaluation was being made. He said the government wanted to finalise contract extensions as soon as practical, and urged the industry in the meantime to maintain its exploration drive. Subroto said Indonesia needed the companies to maintain exploration efforts, even if their contract was due to expire within 10 years. "This need in itself is some sort of guarantee that we will soon have to come up with an extension agreement." Eleven major contract areas are due to come up for renewal between 1991 and 2001, industry sources said. Extension of the contracts on the blocks has involved detailed negotiations but so far no extension has been granted. Subroto told reporters afterwards that contract extensions would be selective, based on how much capital would be invested.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in the week ended June 6 from 310,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,359,000 in the week ended May 30, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,255,000 the previous week.
Unemployment in Portugal held steady at 9.6 pct in the first quarter of 1987 after the same rate in the last quarter of 1986, the National Statistics Institute said. This compared with 11.1 pct unemployment in the first quarter of 1986. The total number of registered unemployed in the first quarter of this year was 437,500.
Renewed confidence in OPEC's ability to limit production helped U.S. energy futures settle above yesterday's closing prices, according to analysts. They also said the heating oil contract found additional support from a short-covering rally on the close. April crude closed 24 cts higher to 17.75 dlrs. April heating oil was 1.47 cts higher to 47.91 cts a gallon. "Most traders expected follow through profit-taking from yesterday but the market found suport from bullish reports that OPEC is producing within its quota," said Simon Greenshields, a vice president with Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. News today, including OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman statement that OPEC February production did not exceed its official quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day, helped bouy prices, traders said. A  survey found OPEC production in early March was 14.7 mln bpd. In addition to short-covering, heating oil found support from traders buying it against sales of gasoline and crude, as well as from expectations for continued drawdowns in stocks as refiners shut down for maintenance, traders said. Unleaded gasoline for April finished 0.55 cent higher to 51.24 cts a gallon.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 341,000 in the week ended March 14 from 340,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,454,000 in the week ended March 7, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,507,000 the previous week.
Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc said the Viodo Marine Number one exploratory well offshore the People's Republic of the Congo produced up to 1,135 barrels of 26.55 degree gravity oil daily in tests through a 3/4 inch choke. The company said the well, in 202 feet of water about 10 miles west of Pointe-Noire, Congo, was drilled to a depth of 11,527 feet and tested between 7,204 feet and 11,300 feet. The well is located on the Marine II block, a 260,000 acre offshore permit acquired in May 1985, where Conoco is operator with a 42.5 pct interest. Orange-Nassau Marine C.V.> owns 7.5 pct and Hydro Congo, the state oil company, 50 pct.
Unemployment fell in March to 36,510, or 1.7 pct of the workforce, compared with 39,700 (1.9 pct) in February and 38,839 (2.2 pct) in March 1986, the Labour Directorate said.
