Australia's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to 8.4 pct of the estimated workforce in March from 8.2 pct in February and 7.9 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said. The number of jobless rose to 650,700 from 631,900 in February and 593,200 a year earlier, the Bureau said. Unadjusted, the number of unemployed rose to 702,600 from 699,600 in February but the rate eased to 9.0 pct from 9.1, reflecting a slight increase in the estimated workforce. In March 1986, 640,400 persons, or 8.5 pct of the workforce, were out of work.
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage in the money market today up to 1.15 billion stg before taking account of its early operations. Earlier, the bank forecast the deficit at 1.05 billion stg and gave 90 mln stg assistance at an early round of bill offers.
French unemployment rose to a record seasonally adjusted 2.65 mln in February from 2.61 mln in January and 2.57 mln at the end of last year, the Labour Ministry said. The rise took the percentage of the workforce out of a job to 11.0 pct last month from 10.9 pct in January and 10.7 pct at the end of 1986. In unadjusted terms unemployment fell by around 30,000 last month to 2.70 mln.
Rio de Janeiro's 3,500 dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite period today to demand wage increases, a spokesman for the dockers said. The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleagues in Santos, Brazil's main port, but the spokesman said they would not return to work unless their demands were met. Earlier this week, some 65,000 dockworkers cancelled a scheduled national strike to pressure port officials to give them a wage increase and other benefits. A Rio port spokesman said the halt would cause daily losses of about 100,000 U.S. dlrs.
The Reagan Administration is considering tax incentives to boost oil output and restore 100,000 jobs, U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said. A tax credit for new exploration would be part of a package to bring 1,000 idle drilling rigs back into operation and raise domestic production by one mln barrels a day, he said. The tax status of exploration might also be changed, Herrington told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress. He said the oil industry was experiencing difficult times internationally and had been devastated in the United States. Consumer demand and a significant decline in domestic production has resulted in a rise in oil imports of one mln barrels a day in over the last 16 months, Herrington said. "Steps must be taken...To reverse the downturn in our domestic energy industry and to safeguard and increase our energy security," he said. The administration is committed to improving marketplace conditions and incentives to spur exploration and development. "This commitment includes rejecting quick fix solutions, like an oil import fee, which are bad for the United States and bad for the world," he added.
Swedish unemployment was steady at 2.2 pct of the workforce in March compared with the previous month, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. In March 1986, the figure stood at 2.4 pct.
The Nigerian naira firmed 2.6 pct against the dollar after 17 banks were disqualified from bidding at today's weekly foreign exchange auction, the central bank said. The naira finished at 3.8050 to the dollar, against 3.9050 last week. Only 38.39 mln dlrs of the 50 mln dlrs on offer was sold, with all 27 bidding banks successfully obtaining hard currency. The effective rate, including a central bank levy, for transactions in the coming week, was 3.8241 against 3.9246 last week. The failure to sell the whole allocation was due to the central bank's unprecedented disqualification of 17 banks as punishment for inadequate documentation in previous transactions. Banks are required to submit proof that their bids are based on valid commercial transactions and the central bank has complained in the past that many are failing to produce the right paperwork within the specified time.
India has called a fresh buying tender for up to four 13,000 tonne cargoes of white sugar on March 11, traders here said. The tender calls for one cargo of prompt sugar and two to three with March/April shipment sugar, or the same as the eight cargoes bought at a tender two days ago. That tender originally only sought two to three cargoes but resulted in the sale of eight. India also granted the sellers options to sell twice that amount at the same price but for April/May shipment. Depending on prices, traders said it would be likely for India again to buy more than the tonnage formally sought.
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl today in West Germany and agreed to support the Louvre pact, the Treasury Department said. The Treasury described the meeting as "a very positive, private meeting in Frankfurt, West Germany which had been agreed upon last week. "The parties agreed to continue economic cooperation under the Louvre agreement and its flexible application including cooperation on exchange rate stability and monetary policies," the Treasury said. The Treasury said Baker and Stoltenberg "are consulting with their G-7 colleagues and are confident that this will enable them to foster exchange rate stability around current levels." The Louvre pact is an agreement between the Group of Seven leading industrial countries including the United States and West Germany to promote currency stability. Baker was scheduled to visit Scandinavia and Belgium this week and the department earlier refused to release details of his travel itinerary, citing security considerations.
The government announced a three billion franc program to combat long-term unemployment amid speculation among political and economic analysts that it is positioning itself for a period of economic reflation. The package presented to the cabinet of Prime Minister Jacques Chirac by Social Affairs and Labour Minister Philippe Seguin today is to be financed out of a 7.5 billion franc contingency fund announced on February 25. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur previously ruled out a reflationary program. Long-term unemployment, defined as being out of work for more than one year, affects about 830,000 people or one third of French unemployed, government figures show. The main measures of the employment program give employers financial incentives to offer short-term work contracts of at least two years and stress retraining to help the long-term unemployed return to the labour market. Training subsidies and exemptions from social security contributions are the main incentives for employers. "Companies tell us that we have to give them a strong incentive to take on people who have fallen out of the labour market and that's why the proposals...Are costly," an aide to Seguin said. The analysts said speculation the government is considering a reflationary program was sparked by Chirac spokesman Denis Baudouin, who said yesterday that ministers were generally agreed on the desirability of relaunching the economy. He appeared to contradict statements by Balladur ruling out economic stimulation despite the government's revision of its 1987 growth forecast to about 2.0 pct from 2.8. Finance ministry officials later clarified Baudouin's remarks, saying there was no question of any move to stimulate the economy through a boost to consumer spending although government policy allowed for increased industrial investment from the proceeds of France's five-year privatisation plan. The 1987 budget allowed for 30 billion francs in revenue from privatisation, to be split between repaying national debt and providing state enterprises with fresh capital. Some political analysts said Baudouin's comments possibly reflect widening differences within the RPR-UDF coalition on social issues ahead of next year's presidential elections. Divisions began to show last December, when a wave of strikes led by transport workers paralysed the country and drove the government into a new mood of conciliation with labour. Officials said that after the success of the privatisation of Cie de Saint Gobain SGEP.PA> and Cie Financiere de Paribas PARI.PA> the government had decided to speed up its five-year privatisation program with the aim of completing a third of it this year, ahead of the presidential elections expected in 1988. The accelerated program could provide additional unbudgeted revenue to boost industrial and research investment and spending on infrastructure such as the national motorway network. The government also today revived a proposal, blocked last year by Socialist president Francois Mitterrand, to encourage more flexible working hours, which it says will boost jobs by improving the competitiveness of French industry. The proposals allowing night-shift work by women and variations in the standard 39-hour working week are to be put to parliament as a self-contained draft bill after being vetoed for procedural reasons by Mitterrand and later the Council of State.
Venezuela will lend Ecuador 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil over the next few months to help it meet its export commitments, Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said today. He said that under the terms of this loan, agreed during a visit here this week by Ecuador's Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite, Ecuador will begin repaying the loan in August. Hernandez Grisanti said the loan will go part way to offsetting the loss of Ecuador's 140,000 in exports caused by earthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week. Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of Balao was put out of action. Venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while Ecuador's is 210,000 bpd. Santos Alvite said Ecuador will ask OPEC to allow it to produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when the pipeline is repaired to offset present production losses. Hernandez Grisanti said also a first 300,000 barrels shipment of Venezuelan crude oil will leave for Ecuador this weekend to help meet domestic consumption needs. The oil, part of a five mln additional crude oil loan by Venezuela, will be processed at Guayaquil refineries. "If we had not supplied oil to Ecuador the life of this country would have ground to a halt," he said.
Philippine coffee exports are expected to fall sharply due to a combination of the International Coffee Organisation's (ICO) decision not to revive export quotas and higher local prices, ICO Certifying Agency official Dante de Guzman told Reuters. He said exporter registrations dropped from an average weekly 500 tonnes in March to 45 tonnes last week, with exports in coffee year 1986/87, ending September, forecast to total about 8,000 tonnes against 48,000 in 1985/86. "Because of the relatively higher level of domestic prices, it has become difficult to service exports," de Guzman said, adding that most exporters are taking a wait and see attitude. Coffee production was expected to drop slightly to about one mln bags of 60 kg each in the 1986/87 crop year ending June from 1.1 mln bags last year, he said.
Unemployment in the European Community fell in March to 16.8 mln from 17 mln in February thanks to an improvement in the weather, the EC's statistics agency Eurostat said. It said the number of jobless fell in all 12 Community member states as weather conditions improved, though France, Italy and Spain saw declines of less than one pct. There was also a particularly large drop in the number of jobless under-25s in all states except Italy, where 19,300 more young people were unemployed in March than in the month before.
Brazil is not selling cocoa beans to the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, buffer stock, as spot prices for beans in the interior area are 20 to 25 pct higher than levels which would be paid by the ICCO buffer stock manager, trade sources in the major producing state Bahia said. The scarcity of beans because of the effects of drought on the current temporao harvest has pushed prices well above international levels, the sources noted. The only buyers are bean exporters or local processors covering previously contracted commitments, they added. If sales were made they would be executed by individual exporting companies which are members of the Brazilian Cocoa Trade Commission, they said.
Long delays at the railway crossing on the Kenyan border have led Uganda to re-route its coffee exports through a ferry link with the Kenyan port of Kisumu across Lake Victoria, Ugandan officials based in Kenya said. Uganda has a direct rail link with the Kenyan port of Mombasa through which it conducts 70 pct of its external trade but there is a chronic shortage of railway wagons, they said. Customs at Kisumu take less than a day compared with two to three at the Malaba rail border crossing, a Ugandan Railways official said. "Malaba is now handling only 10 pct of the trade and all the coffee and oil goes through Kisumu," he said. However, an accident recently damaged the wagon ferry which plies between Kisumu and the Ugandan port of Jinja, causing bottlenecks on the lake route too. Sources at the Coffee Marketing Board in Kampala reported delays in coffee export shipments last January due to congestion on the lake ferries. Coffee accounts for about 95 pct of Uganda's export earnings and last November President Yoweri Museveni ordered all coffee shipments to be carried by rail in order to avoid the higher costs of road haulage.
World oil prices would remain stable despite the U.S. Attack against Iranian oil platforms and growing tension in the Gulf, Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday. He described the situation as "extremely tense," but said Gulf military activity would not significantly affect prices because supply and demand were roughly equal. Demand for OPEC crude in the final quarter of 1987 was 18.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) and the group's members were now pumping above 18 mln bpd, he told a news conference. Hernandez Grisanti said the supply/demand balance was precarious and prices were in danger of falling from their current average of about 18 dlrs per barrel if overproduction continued. Three or four members of the 13-nation Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries were "overproducing in an exaggerated manner" above their assigned quotas, he said. OPEC's overall ceiling is 16.6 mln bpd.
The St Lawrence Seaway said the first ship of the season passed through the St Lambert lock here this morning, officially opening the 2,300-mile-long waterway's 1987 shipping season. The seaway has said it expects little increase in freight levels this year from last year when it moved 37.6 mln tonnes of freight between Montreal and Lake Ontario and 41.6 mln tonnes on the Welland Canal, which links Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. The canal is scheduled to open tomorrow. Officials expect the waterway to lose nine to ten mln Canadian dlrs this year, about the same as the estimated deficit for fiscal 1986-87, which ends today.
The House Ways and Means trade subcommittee postponed until next week its opening session to start drafting major changes to U.S. trade laws, a committee aide said. The subcommittee had not yet completed the preparatory work to start writing the legislation, the aide said.
Brazilian cocoa exporters are not likely to follow the example of Cocoa Producers Alliance, CPA, members, who may limit sales of the product in an effort to boost world prices, trade sources said. They said a similar procedure was taken in the past in Brazil and that it did not work out according to plans. "The cocoa market is completely free. Unlike coffee, which is controlled through export registrations, cocoa exporters in Brazil operate at their own free will," a trade source said. The traders were responding to questions whether they would follow the example of CPA members meeting in Yaounde. The sources said the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department, CACEX, never interferes in the cocoa market by rejecting sales that do not meet certain price or shipment criteria. "The position of local producers is always to negotiate as they please. If they buy for ten and sell for eleven and think it's a good deal, they are free to go ahead," one source added.
The buffer stock manager of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) will tender for about 3,000 tonnes of cocoa beans Wednesday, June 3, the ICCO said in a statement. It said all other conditions remain unchanged from the previous announcement. These conditions are that offers from registered companies should be in pounds sterling for cocoa beans for which standard differentials have been set in the ICCO's buffer stock rules, and can be for cocoa afloat through to December shipment and spot to December arrival/delivery. The basis position will be afloat, May/July shipment or June arrival/delivery. For later positions the appropriate carrying costs will be taken into account. The deadline for the receipt of offers by the manager shall be 1330 hrs london time (1230 gmt) in the case of offers emanating from the secondhand market and 1400 hours in the case of offers emanating from the origins. The competitiveness of offers will be assessed by taking into account the standard differentials, the cost of taking cocoa into store (currently 23.00 pounds sterling from "cif landed" and 38.00 pounds sterling from "cif shipping weights" to "in store") and the cost of carry which currently is 12.00 pounds sterling per month, the ICCO said. No more than four offers will be considered from each offering party, it added.
The nine creditor banks of the Singapore coffee trader Teck Hock and Co (Pte) Ltd> are thinking of buying a controlling stake in the company themselves, a creditor bank official said. Since last December the banks have been allowing the company to postpone loan repayments while they try to find an overseas commodity company to make an offer for the firm. At least one company has expressed interest and negotiations are not yet over, banking sources said. However, the banks are now prepared to consider taking the stake if they find an investor willing to inject six to seven mln dlrs in the company but not take control, the banking sources said. Teck Hock's financial adviser, Singapore International Merchant Bankers Ltd (SIMBL), will work on the new proposal with the creditor banks, they said. Major holdings are likely to be held by the two largest creditor banks, Standard Chartered Bank STCH.L> and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd OCBM.SI>, they added. Teck Hock owes over 100 mln Singapore dlrs and the creditor banks earlier this week agreed to let Teck Hock fufill profitable contracts to help balance earlier losses. The nine banks are Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd, United Overseas Bank Ltd UOBM.SI>, Banque Paribas>, Bangkok Bank Ltd,> Citibank NA>, Standard Chartered Bank Ltd, Algemene Bank Nederland NV ABNN.AS>, Banque Nationale De Paris BNPP.PA> and Chase Manhattan Bank NA.>
For currency dealers Karl Otto Poehl is the scourge of speculators, for bankers he is the man who has played a key role in shaping the world's financial destiny for the last seven years, and for Germans he is the guardian of the mark. President of the powerful and independent West German central bank, the Bundesbank, Poehl is likely to have his contract renewed for another eight years when it expires at the end of this year, government officials say. (Index of economic spotlights, see page ECRA) But no official announcement has yet been made, raising eyebrows in West Germany's business community. The ebullient Poehl spent seven years in Bonn in top ministerial posts under the Social Democrats, now in opposition, before he moved to the Bundesbank. There has been speculation that Chancellor Helmut Kohl would try to replace Poehl with a man closer to his own Christian Democrats. But officials noted that Poehl has worked closely and successfully with Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg since Kohl's government took office in 1982. Poehl, the most senior central banker apart from Paul Volcker of the United States, enjoys a strong international reputation which it would take a newcomer years to build up. Given these circumstances, Kohl will probably overlook Poehl's past as an adviser to former Social Democrat Chancellor Willy Brandt, and top aide to Helmut Schmidt when he was Finance Minister, bankers said. It was Schmidt who, as Chancellor, appointed Poehl to his present job in 1980. In recent months, with the mark's strong rise against the dollar, Poehl has made exchange rates the central concern of the Bundesbank's council, a highly conservative institution which has doggedly pursued monetary policies to prevent inflation catching hold. Older Germans can remember two bouts of galloping inflation this century. But with consumer prices falling for much of 1986, and inflation negligible so far this year, Poehl thinks it is safe to relax the monetary reins a little and concentrate on the dangers to the German economy of a bloated exchange rate. "I am of the opinion that efforts to stabilise the dollar/mark rate have reached a high priority, also for the Bundesbank, because a further massive revaluation of the mark would endanger the economy in West Germany," he told business journalists in Frankfurt recently. Ute Geipel, head of research at Citibank AG, says that Poehl's reappointment would guarantee flexible monetary policy. "Poehl's policy has always been a policy which does not focus so rigidly on domestic factors, but also on the external economy," she said. An economist at a German bank, who declined to be identified, said "If Poehl is confirmed in his post, it will certainly be a plus for the pragmatic course which is not so rigidly oriented towards money supply." One of Poehl's great struggles recently has been to persuade the United States to stop "talking down" the dollar. For Poehl, the significance of the February Louvre Accord was that the United States agreed to join efforts to stabilise currencies. The Louvre Accord was greeted with scepticism by currency dealers who said they would soon put it to the test. But in fact the dollar has been relatively stable since the pact. "This is because the markets know - or perhaps because they don't know - what the central banks can do," Poehl says of intervention in currency markets which can quickly turn rates round, making a speculator's position worthless. Poehl was born in 1929 and worked as a financial journalist in the 1960s before starting his ministerial career. A relaxed sun-tanned figure who enjoys cracking jokes over a glass of beer, he is hardly a stereotype central banker. He is also a keen sportsman who likes to watch football and play golf. Poehl says currency market intervention cannot substitute for correct economic policies if exchange rates are imbalanced. "But you can achieve an enormous effect with a small amount if you strike at the right moment," he said. Bundesbank dealers are very professional and skilled. "They've burnt the fingers of many people," he said. And unlike the speculators, Poehl notes, the Bundesbank dealers usually make a profit.
The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) Council reached agreement on rules to govern its buffer stock, the device it uses to keep cocoa off the market to stabilise prices, ICCO delegates said. The date on which the new rules will take effect has not been decided but delegates said they expected them to come into force early next week, after which the buffer stock manager can begin buying or selling cocoa. Since prices are below the "may-buy" level of 1,655 Special Drawing Rights a tonne set in the cocoa pact, the manager is likely to buy cocoa sooon to support the market, they said. Delegates and traders said they expected the manager, Juergen Plambeck, to intervene in the market within three weeks of the pact coming into force. The rules permit him to buy and sell cocoa from origins or the second hand market on an offer system, not by means of a posted price as in the previous cocoa accord. The cocoa will be priced according to a fixed set of differentials, ranging from 137 stg for most expensive Ghana cocoa to zero for Malaysian cocoa. Purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock and those on any one day should be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate and forward positions. The council meeting, which is expected to conclude two weeks of sessions involving various working groups and the council itself, was continuing, the delegates said. The current cocoa agreement came into force on January 20 during a previous meeting of the council which was unable to agree on the rules to implement buffer stock operations.
Louisiana Land and Exploration Co said it, Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc subsidiary and Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V.> have been offered four exploration blocks offshore The Netherlands. Louisiana Land said Blocks Q4a, E12c and E15b were offered to the group in which Conoco has a 67.5 pct interest, Louisiana Land 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5 pct, while this group along with a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co PZL> were offered Block Q5c. The offers were the result of applications submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the Netherlands Sixth Offshore Licensing Round. Louisiana Land said the Conoco group intends to provide a formal acceptance of the blocks with plans to start exploration this year. The company also said the two Q blocks immediately offset other offshore blocks on which hydrocarbons have been found in commercial quantities.
Dutch seasonally-adjusted unemployment totalled 690,600 people in February, unchanged from January but down from 732,700 in February 1986, a Social Affairs Ministry spokesman said. The unadjusted figure stood at 708,700 at the end of last month, a decline of 3,800 from the January total of 712,500 and comparing with 750,000 at the end of February last year.
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late assistance of around 85 mln stg. This brings the bank total help so far today to some 87 mln stg and compares with its latest forecast of a 250 mln stg shortage in the system today.
New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in May fell to five vessels totalling 188,900 gross tons (gt) from eight ships of 314,000 gt in April, against four ships of 104,500 gt a year earlier, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. The backlog of orders at end-May was 122 ships of 3.70 mln gt against 125 ships of 3.73 mln at end-April and 233 ships of 5.99 mln a year ago, an association official said. The world shipping recession and the yen's appreciation against the dollar depressed May orders, he said.
Spain's registered unemployment fell by 10,465 people to 2.97 mln or 21.4 pct of the workforce in March, Labour Ministry figures show. Registered unemployment in February was 2.98 mln people, or 21.5 pct of the workforce. The figures were nonetheless higher than those for March 1986 -- 2.8 mln people and 21 pct of the workforce.
The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, buffer stock working group began examining a draft proposal for buffer stock rules this afternoon, delegates said. The plan, presented by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, represented a compromise between producer, European Community, EC, and other consumer views on how the buffer stock should operate, they said. The proposal involved three key principles. First, the buffer stock manager would be open to offers for cocoa rather than using fixed posted prices as previously, delegates said. Under an offer system, the buffer stock manager would be free to choose cocoas of varying prices, they said. The second provision was that non-ICCO member cocoa could comprise a maximum 10 pct of the buffer stock, while the third laid out a pricing system under which the buffer stock manager would pay differentials for different grades of cocoa, to be set by a formula, the delegates said. After the plan was presented, working group delegates met briefly in smaller groups of producers, EC consumers and all consumers to look at the proposal. Producers gave no reaction to the scheme and will respond to it when the working group meets tomorrow at 1000 GMT, producer delegates said. Consumer members accepted the proposal as a good base to work from, one consumer delegate said. Delegates said the proposal was only a starting point for negotiations on buffer stock rules and subject to change.
The western industrialised nations have agreed reforms in rules by which they provide credit for exports to developing countries, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said. The reforms tighten the rules for the use of foreign aid to subsidise export credits in so-called "mixed credits," the OECD said. The agreement, to be implemented in two stages in July this year and July 1988, means the minimum aid component in mixed credits will be raised to 35 pct from 25 pct, and to 50 pct for credits covering exports to the world's least developed nations. Additionally, a new formula will be used for calculating the aid element in mixed credits, to take account of different interest rates in the exporting countries, the 24-nation OECD, which hosted the reform negotiations, said. Minimum interest rates for officially subsidised trade loans have also been revised with the aim of cutting the subsidies, and ending them completely on loans to relatively rich developing countries by July next year. The reforms follow several years of pressure by the U.S. To stop competitors, notably France and Japan, using foreign aid to subsidise exports, putting U.S. Firms at a disadvantage. OECD officials said the agreement was based on a provisional accord reached in January subject to ratification by member governments. Some governments, including Austria, had linked their final approval to other trade credit issues which would be discussed at a meeting here in mid-April, they added. By raising the minimum amount of aid required in mixed credits the agreement aims to make such hidden subsidies too costly for frequent use. "A major loophole in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade has been closed today," a senior U.S. Official here commented.
Iran has deployed about six large missiles near the Strait of Hormuz which increase the threat to shipping in the Gulf, the New York Times said. The paper quoted U.S. Intelligence sources as saying the missiles appeared to be of a Chinese design known as HY-2 which is based on the Soviet SSN2 or Styx missile. Styx missiles have a range of up to 50 miles. It said the missiles had been deployed at two sites and quoted a naval analyst as saying they could be used to sink a supertanker and block the Strait of Hormuz. Missiles now used by Iran had only a fraction of the explosive power of the Styx and could sink a supertanker only with a lucky hit, the paper said. None of the new missiles had been fired yet, it added. The CBS television network reported on Friday that Iran had installed new missiles along the Gulf and said Washington had warned Tehran not to use them against civilian shipping.
The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system.
The House Ways and Means Committee completed action on legislation to toughen U.S. trade laws, chairman Dan Rostenkowski said. The committee's consideration of one of the most controversial provisions, a plan to force major trade surplus countries to cut their trade imbalance with the United States, was deferred until the full House considers the trade bill, its sponsor Rep. Richard Gephardt said. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, told Reuters he was not certain the exact form his trade surplus reduction proposal would take. Last year the House approved his plan to force a 10 pct surplus cutback each year for four years, by countries such as Japan. The Ways and Means Committess' trade bill forces President Reagan to retaliate against unfair trade practices that violate international trade agreements but it allows him to wave retaliatory tariffs or quotas if the action would hurt the U.S. economy. The trade bill gives U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter more authority in trade negotiations and in decisions to grant domestic industries import relief. It also gives him authority to decide whether foreign trade practices are unfair and violate U.S. trading rights. These powers are currently held by President Reagan. The administration has strongly objected to this transfer of authority from Reagan to Yeutter. The bill also extends U.S. authority to negotiate multilateral trade agreements. The bill will be wrapped into other trade legislation and voted on in the House in April.
Hopes mounted for an agreement on cocoa buffer stock rules at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting which opened here today, delegates said. Both producer and consumer ICCO members said after the opening session that prospects for an agreement on the cocoa market support mechanism were improving. "The chances are very good as of now of getting buffer stock rules by the end of next week," Ghanaian delegate and producer spokesman Mama Mohammed told journalists. Consumer spokesman Peter Baron called the tone of the negotiations "optimistic and realistic." The ICCO council failed to agree on buffer stock rules when a new International Cocoa Agreement came into force in January, with deep differences of opinion precluding serious discussions on the matter at that time. The existing buffer stock of about 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen, with a funds balance of 250 mln dlrs. The ICCO made buffer stock rules negotiations a priority at this semi-annual council meeting in order to stop the slide in world cocoa prices. Consumers and producers agreed yesterday on the principles as a basis for negotiations. The council broke for lunch, and reconvenes at 1500 hrs. A working group which has been meeting since Monday will tackle the buffer stock rules issue again at 1600 hrs, when ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn presents a fleshed-out version of a draft proposal he prepared earlier this week, delegates said. Mohammed said delegates will have a much clearer indication of prospects for an accord after details of the rules are elaborated by Erbynn, and after producers and consumers meet separately later today to examine the scheme. The draft proposal included three principles: a limit to non- member cocoa comprising the buffer stock, an offer system for buying buffer stock cocoa, and price differentials to be paid for various cocoas making up the buffer stock, delegates said. During the morning council session, the Ivory Coast delegation gave "an open minded statement" that it is willing to work out a buffer stock rules solution which could come into effect as soon as possible, Baron said. Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the ICCO council, was now expected to arrive in London Monday to attend the talks, Baron said. Vice chairman Sir Denis Henry of Grenada chaired the meeting in his place. Soviet and East German delegates did not attend the council session because of a conflicting International Sugar Organization meeting today, but could arrive this afternoon, delegates said.
Trade estimates of the coming May/September temporao harvest in Brazil's main cocoa growing state of Bahia are now in the 1.5 mln to 2.0 mln 60-kilo bag range against 2.0 mln to 2.5 mln two weeks ago. Traders in the state capital Salvador told Reuters the effects of a dry period in the first six weeks of the year had been harsher than thought earlier. Although good flowering had followed the onset of rains in mid-February subsequent pod setting was dissappointing. Last year's temporao, also hit by a dry spell, was 2.77 mln bags. In 1984 severe drought cut the crop to 1.79 mln bags. The traders said another factor leading to lower crop predictions is that many farmers are not caring properly for plantations because of low returns on their investment. Manpower, fertiliser and other costs have been cut back as farmers feel the pinch of the rise in interest rates over the past six months coupled with low bean prices. If such economies continue into the winter months both the temporao and the developing October/April main crop could face serious damage from pod rot attacks on trees which would normally be treated against the disease. Recent very wet weather has already caused some isolated incidences of pod rot but reports from the growing regions say these are not yet significant. The traders said they expect very low deliveries of temporao beans in the first three months of the harvest and the bulk will not appear until the last month, September. Despite the low loads, trees are said to be in excellent condition and recent flowering and pod setting - which will lead to late temporao/early main crop beans - has been good.
Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. The economists said the service sector should grow as the government stimulates domestic demand under its program to transform the economy away from exports. Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower than those of other industrialised nations, methods for calculating statistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned. "The three pct figure could translate into a relatively high figure if European methods were used," one economist said. More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from a year earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo's Tsukihara said.
The Cuban sugar harvest, which was extended almost a month and a half beyond its originally scheduled shutdown date, ended here as the last of the island's 154 mills closed operations, the official newspaper granma said. The newspaper characterized the harvest, which began in late November, 1986, as "a tense and pressured campaign." In a recent interview with the French communist party newspaper l'humanite, Cuban president Fidel Castro said that crude sugar production during the harvest would be "less than 7.5 mln tonnes. The harvest was plagued by a four year shortfall of rain which reduced the sugar content of the cane and by unseasonable rain storms during the first two months of this year which made cane cutting by mechanical combines virtually impossible. Many foreign sugar experts voiced doubts during the present harvest that raw sugar production would exceed last year's 7.2 mln tonne mark. In the 1984-85 campaign Cuba produced 8.2 mln tonnes of raw sugar.
Dutch sugar traders deny involvement in a plan to offer more than 850,000 tonnes of sugar to intervention in protest at EC export policy and prices, traders told Reuters. Although some 2,500 tonnes of sugar have been offered to intervention in the Netherlands, Dutch producers and traders said this sugar was actually Belgian and was being offered by the Belgian industry. "We sympathise with the actions of the French, West German and Belgian traders and producers, but we are not party to it," a spokesman said. EC Commission sources said yesterday French traders planned to sell 775,000 tonnes into intervention stocks, West German traders 75,000 tonnes and Dutch traders 2,500. Dutch trade sources gave the same figure for France, but estimated up to 110,000 tonnes offered by German traders and producers. The Dutch spokesman added, "The weekly export tender policy and prices are squeezing the European sugar industry, and this is the only way in which they can really register their protest. "These are desperate actions, but we believe that most of this offered sugar will be withdrawn within the three-week breathing space allowed."
French producers have withdrawn all offers to sell more than 700,000 tonnes of sugar into European Community intervention stocks, EC Commission sources said. They also said West German producers had now withdrawn the last 3,000 of the 79,250 tonnes they sold into EC stores on April 1. The sales were made to protest against the level of export restitutions being granted for sugar at weekly EC tenders. Last Friday, commission sources said the West German producers had withdrawn all but 3,000 tonnes of their sales. The protest by European producers involved sales of 854,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention, of which 785,000 tonnes were accepted by the commission. Under EC regulations, operators had five weeks before receiving payment to withdraw the sugar. Their decision to withdraw the sugar follows what commission sources have said is a slight shift in the authority's stance in recent weeks. The commission last week increased the maximum restitutions to within about 0.5 Ecus per kilo of the prices which traders claim are needed to match intervention prices.
Uganda, Africa's second largest coffee producer, was disappointed by the stalemate in recent coffee talks in London, the chairman of the state-run Coffee Marketing Board, CMB, said. "This has not been good for coffee producers, more so in a situation where the prices dropped by 200 pounds per tonne of robusta coffee," J. Makumbi said when he returned from London on Friday. Producers and consumers failed to agree on a quota formula to share the world's coffee production during International Coffee Organisation, ICO, talks that ended last week. Makumbi blamed the failure to set quotas, which were suspended in Feburary last year, on Indonesian demands that its quota be increased dramatically. Uganda -- which earns about 400 mln dlrs annually from coffee exports, over 95 pct of its foreign exchange earnings -- had sought to raise its ICO quota to 3.0 mln from 2.45 mln 60-kilo bags, according to sources close to the CMB. The CMB has estimated that production will rise 20 to 25 pct in the current 1986/87 October-September season to over three mln bags. For several years Uganda had been unable to meet its ICO export quota as rebel activity disrupted the coffee industry. The Ugandan government depends on coffee export duties for about 60 pct of its sales tax revenue and the industry employs over half of salaried manpower. In Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's Agriculture and Livestock Development Minister Paul Bomani said today Third World countries would suffer from the failure of the London coffee talks. "It is only the middlemen who will benefit, he said. Bomani called on the ICO to convene another meeting within two months, saying, "Once tempers have cooled and delegations have had time to report back to their headquarters, common sense will prevail."
A voluntary compliance system for monitoring U.S. coffee imports under quotas is viewed skeptically by many in the coffee industry, said analysts and trade sources. "Many sectors of the trade, including large roasters and importers, are adamant against voluntary compliance because of the past, which was subject to tremendous irregularities as it became a matter of the trade monitoring each other," one analyst said. On Monday, a National Coffee Association newsletter said the Office of U.S. Trade Representative will implement a voluntary compliance system temporarily because legislation to monitor imports is tied up in the Congressional trade bill. Under the arrangement, milar to one in 1980, coffee importers would voluntarily present needed documents to the U.S. government until Congress approves the monitoring authority, but if coffee arrives without valid certification, it will still be allowed entry. While many believe producers will not seek to add to the overburdened stock situation in the U.S., others believe some will ship outside of the quota requirements in lieu of monitoring controls, trade sources said. "Last time, there was a lot of false information submitted to customs which resulted in a lot of indictments and fines," a U.S. Customs spokesman said. "Customs can do a good job when given the tools, but when its hands are tied, it doesn't have the authority to demand Form O (documents tracking merchandise from source to destination)," he said. Many see it as a true test of whether producers and importers will abide by the quota system. "It is a key to seeing whether there are any teeth in the quota agreement," said one major U.S. roaster. "Last time we had a gentleman's agreement, the trade did not act as a gentleman," said another analyst adding, "without the need to submit documents, the ball will be in the producers' hands." Some feel that importers will take advantage of the voluntary compliance due to development of a two-tier market, in which non-member countries buy coffee at a big discount. Many fear that dealers will buy coffee destined for non-member countries at discounts and then bring it into the U.S. falsely labelled. According to customs officials, several green coffee importers confessed in 1985 that they had imported coffee fraudulently after buying it for non-member destinations, forging landing certificates and then relabelling it as navy beans. "If there's that much of a discrepancy between prices for one country and another, producers may be teted to get rid of their stocks of coffee by selling to non-member nations and by circumventing the quota provisions," said Paine Webber analyst Bernie Savaiko. Still, others believe that producers will not be hard pressed to aggravate the overburdened coffee stock situation in the U.S. in the near term. "It would be naive to suggest that any agreement would not have some share of connivance, but I think the voluntary system seemed to suffice and, coupled with the fact that we have so much coffee, I don't think that it poses that much of a threat," one trader said.
The International Coffee Organization (ICO) executive board meeting scheduled for the end of this month has been delayed by one day and will now run from March 31 to April 2 and not March 30 to April 1, ICO officials said. On March 30, the ICO ad hoc working group will meet to consider management consultants Ernst Whinney's report on the ICO secretariat. This report was commissioned late last year to report on the administrative structure of the ICO.
The U.S. Agriculture Department said cumulative sugar imports from individual countries during the 1987 quota year, which began January 1, 1987 and ends December 31, 1987 were as follows, with quota allocations for the quota year in short tons, raw value -- CUMULATIVE QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS ARGENTINA nil 39,130 AUSTRALIA nil 75,530 BARBADOS nil 7,500 BELIZE nil 10,010 BOLIVIA nil 7,500 BRAZIL nil 131,950 CANADA nil 18,876 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS COLOMBIA 103 21,840 CONGO nil 7,599 COSTA RICA nil 17,583 IVORY COAST nil 7,500 DOM REP 5,848 160,160 ECUADOR nil 10,010 EL SALVADOR nil 26,019.8 FIJI nil 25,190 GABON nil 7,500 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS GUATEMALA nil 43,680 GUYANA nil 10,920 HAITI nil 7,500 HONDURAS nil 15,917.2 INDIA nil 7,500 JAMAICA nil 10,010 MADAGASCAR nil 7,500 MALAWI nil 9,,100 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS MAURITIUS nil 10,920 MEXICO 37 7,500 MOZAMBIQUE nil 11,830 PANAMA nil 26,390 PAPUA NEW GUINEA nil 7,500 PARAGUAY nil 7,500 PERU nil 37,310 PHILIPPINES nil 143,780 ST.CHRISTOPHER- NEVIS nil 7,500 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS SWAZILAND nil 14,560 TAIWAN nil 10,920 THAILAND nil 12,740 TRINIDAD-TOBAGO nil 7,500 URUGUAY nil 7,500 ZIMBABWE nil 10,920
The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) moved closer to an agreement on buffer stock rules, with many delegates saying they expect to reach an accord by Friday. "Everyone is convinced the buffer stock rules should be in place by Friday so the buffer stock can be put into operation Monday," a consumer delegate said. "The atmosphere is excellent." Other delegates said the buffer stock might not be operational by Monday but could be in place by around April 1, if the rules are agreed by Friday. A detailed package on how the buffer stock manager will buy and sell cocoa was presented to a buffer stock working group this afternoon -- a big step toward a "very interesting stage of negotiations," delegates said. The package, based on negotiating principles informally agreed by delegates, has been forged bit by bit during fortnight-long meetings by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn and a small group of other delegates. Producers, the European Community (EC) and consumers are scheduled to consider the paper separately and then jointly tomorrow. Under the proposal, the buffer stock manager would buy cocoa from origins or the second-hand market on an offer system. He would alert the market via news agencies as to when he wanted to buy cocoa and include shipment details and tonnage desired, delegates said. The manager would buy cocoa on a competitive basis, rather than choosing the cheapest cocoa as before, giving preference to ICCO member-country exporters. Standard price differentials would be fixed for each origin, similar to golf handicaps, to determine the relative competitiveness of offers of various cocoas from different origins, they said. The differentials could be reviewed at the request of a member country or recommendation of the buffer stock manager, the delegates said. Revision would be decided by a majority vote of the ICCO council. Buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries would not be allowed to exceed 10 pct of the total buffer stock, they said. The purchases would be limited to 5,000 tonnes of cocoa per day and 20,000 tonnes per week, and could be bought in nearby, intermediate and forward positions, they added. One of the underlying ideas of the rules package is "transparency," meaning virtually all the buffer stock manager's market activities will be public and he will have as little discretion as possible, delegates said. After the tin market collapse in 1985, when the International Tin Council buffer stock ran out of funds, cocoa delegates are anxious to install safeguards in the cocoa market mechanism, they said. Earnest debate on the buffer stock proposal is expected to begin late tomorrow, as delegations feel the pressure of the approaching Friday deadline, when the ICCO meeting is due to adjourn, delegates said. The ICCO failed to agree buffer stock rules in January when the new International Cocoa Agreement came into force. The existing buffer stock of 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen in place with its bank balance of 250 mln dlrs -- both untouchable until rules are agreed. Though the current semi-annual council meeting is not the last chance for delegates to cement buffer stock rules, producers are keen to get the wheels of the market-stabilizing mechanism turning to stem the decline in world prices, delegates said.
The official Soviet news agency Tass denounced a U.S. Attack on an Iranian oil-drilling platform in the Gulf on Monday as military adventurism and said it would bring no dividends to the Reagan administration. Tass commentator Mikhail Krutikhin said the administration had embarked on an adventurist path in order to deflect attention from the scandal in which the United States sold arms to Iran and the profits were diverted to Nicaraguan rebels. "The confrontation is a fact now. What is obvious is that the latest military adventure will not bring political dividends to the American administration," Krutikhin said. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze abruptly left a parliamentary session earlier on Monday, sparking diplomatic speculation that they were concerned with an urgent matter of foreign affairs. Soviet officials have previously criticized the United States for sending naval forces into the Gulf, saying their presence serves to increase tension. Moscow is officially neutral in the war between Iran and Iraq. It is a major arms supplier to Iraq but has also sought broader contacts with Iran in the last year. Krutikhin said: "The United States has undertaken an act of armed aggression against Iran, the probability of which has long been spoken of by Washington officials."
Bangladesh's sugar production increased by nearly 60,000 tonnes over last year's season to total 140,000 tonnes at the end of this year's season, the Sugar and Food Industries Corp said. The increased output will enable Bangladesh to cut imports. Corporation officials told Reuters the country has already imported 37,000 tonnes of sugar and will buy 113,000 tonnes more to make up shortfall in the 1986/87 year ending June 30. Imports in 1985/86 totalled 224,000 tonnes, of which nearly 100,000 tonnes are still in stock, they said without giving further details.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige praised South Korea's new surplus-cutting trade policies but warned of possible protectionist retaliation if Seoul's market liberalisation efforts falter or fail. In a press conference after talks with South Korean leaders, Baldrige called the government's announced intention to regulate exports and boost imports "a very, very important step, the right direction for the Korean government to take." The government adopted the new policies last week in the hope of heading off a trade war with the U.S. Baldrige said the policies "showed an understanding of the fact that this country cannot go on indefinitely growing by exports alone." "There has to be enough of a change so that domestic growth begins to take more of the load," he said. South Korea had a 7.2 billion dlr trade surplus with Washington in 1986, thanks largely to booming sales of cars and consumer electronic goods. It racked up another 1.4 billion dlrs in surplus in the first quarter of this year. Baldrige said Seoul's package of measures was "broad enough and comprehensive enough so that ... Actions can be taken for liberalising imports (and) increasing the domestic economy, if the government is willing to follow through." "We will be watching the implementation of this new policy direction very closely," he said. "Because of the protectionism growing in the U.S., We see a real problem if Korea does not keep on the same path ... Of steadily increasing liberalisation.... If that should falter or fail or turn backward, I'm as sure as I'm standing here that we'd see protectionist movement in the U.S." Baldrige said he and South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae spent much time discussing trade problems in specific product categories. These included service industries, which he said were still too much of a closed sector in South Korea, and computers and cars. Baldrige said he urged speedy action on removing the tariffs and taxes on imported U.S. Cars which can make them sell for up to three times their American prices. "We want to stop that. With this sort of thing, there's going to be trouble somewhere down the road," he said. "We are just pointing this out." Asked if Seoul's measures could succeed without a revaluation of the won, which Washington has been urging for months, Baldrige declined to comment. "We don't have any target for any particular currency, but we do feel that currencies around the world, if we are going to be successful as a world economy, have to reflect the fundamentals of the various economies involved," he said. Baldrige said he had agreed to Rha's proposal for cooperation on forming U.S.-South Korean joint ventures in third countries. The American government would be pleased to encourage U.S. Firms to get involved, he added. Commenting on President Reagan's decision to increase tariffs on certain Japanese imports to the U.S., Baldrige said Washington's trade problems with Japan were not comparable to its difficulties with South Korea. "I think the attitude in Korea is both reasonable and fair," he said. "It's a firm attitude. We don't get anything for nothing or just by asking for it. "But our negotiations are friendly and reasonable and they usually end up with something good happening at the end that both countries live up to."
Soviet sugar imports in October and November were significantly higher than in the same period of the year before, according to figures received by the International Sugar Organization. Imports in October totalled 23,803 tonnes, compared with 4,685 tonnes in the same month of 1985, while November imports were up to 136,029 tonnes from 46,541. For the first 11 months of 1986, Soviet imports totalled 5.12 mln tonnes, against 4.30 mln in the same period of 1985. The October 1986 import figure consisted entirely of whites from Cuba, while the November total was made up of 84,037 tonnes Cuban whites and 51,992 tonnes whites from Thailand. Of the imports in the January/November period, those from Cuba were up to 3.81 mln tonnes from 3.65 mln and from Thailand to 292,808 tonnes from 22,800. Soviet exports also increased in 1986. The January/November export total of 289,232 compares with 165,859 tonnes in the first 11 months of 1985. Exports in October 1986 were 20,064, down from 38,853 a year earlier, while November exports were up from 32,796 to 50,855 tonnes.
U.S. oil traders said Texaco Inc's filing for protection under the Chapter 11 bankruptcy code is adding uncertainty to an already skittish oil market, but opinions are divided on the impact to the market. "The filing is holding up wet barrel trading today," said one trader. "Everyone is talking about it, assessing their company's situations in relation to Texaco," he added. Some traders said companies that deal with Texaco are concerned about whether they will receive payment or supplies under the bankruptcy filing. However, others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry," one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. However, others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry," one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. "There is some reluctance to trade with Texaco but no great change," said another trader, adding that traders are tending toward prudence in their dealings with the company. Traders are assessing whether to require cash prepayment or letters of credit, or to continue to trade as usual with Texaco on an open line basis, he said. Another trader, however, described today's activity as business as usual, adding that traders feel more secure because no liens can be put on Texaco's assets while it is in bankruptcy. Traders said there was no apparent effect of the Texaco filing on crude futures trading although they said the exchange might lower Texaco's position limit and require higher margins for Texaco's trades. New York Mercantile Exchange President Rosemary McFadden declined to comment on Texaco's futures trading, saying that is is proprietary information. McFadden did say, however, that as a matter of procedure, it is possible the exchange can lower allowable position limits or increase margin requirements for companies that are in financial trouble.
Iraq said its warplanes attacked two large naval targets -- Baghdad's usual term for oil tankers or merchant ships -- in the Gulf today. A military spokesman said the planes scored accurate and effective hits in both attacks. There was no immediate confirmation of the raids from independent shipping sources in the region. The spokesman said during one of the attacks, Iraqi planes intercepted an Iranian F-4 Phantom and shot it down. All Iraqi warplanes returned safely to base, he added.
Colombia will not attend a meeting of coffee producing countries scheduled for this weekend in Nicaragua, Jorge Cadenas, manager of the National Coffee Growers' Federation, said. "We prefer to wait until things are better prepared," he told Reuters. He added the meeting could be postponed. Colombia, Brazil and the Central American coffee producing countries were invited to the meeting in Managua to analyze the market situation However, he did not dismiss the idea of dialogue and negotiation in preparation for meetings of the International Coffee Organization. Gilberto Arango, president of Colombia's exporters' association, speaking to Reuters earlier this week, ruled out a fresh Colombian initiative on export quotas saying producers had now to show a common resolve which could emerge from continuous contacts. The International Coffee Organization executive board is to meet in London between March 31 and April 2.
A hefty slice of new U.S. Treasury supply is not the most welcome prospect for a slumbering credit market, but at least this week's offerings should provide it with some focus, economists said. "Banks and mutual funds have cash that should be put to work, so the auctions should breathe some life into the market," said economists at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. The Treasury will place a 25 billion dlr package of two-year, four-year and seven-year notes on the sales block this week. The "mini-refunding," which will raise 9.27 billion dlrs in new cash, comprises 10 billion dlrs of two-year notes for auction on Tuesday, 7.75 billion dlrs of four-year notes on Wednesday and 7.25 billion dlrs of seven-year notes on Thursday. The market also faces the regular weekly three- and six-month bill auction today, amounting to 12.8 billion dlrs. The mini-refunding does not come at a particularly auspicious time for the market. Bond prices have been drifting sideways in a narrow range against the backdrop of a cloudy U.S. Economic outlook, diminished chances of a change in Federal Reserve Board policy and a stable dollar. Moreover, the bond market's inertia has compared unfavourably with the rash of activity taking place in high-yield markets overseas, like the U.K., As well as in U.S. Equities. But according to the Merrill Lynch economists, there are signs the pall hanging over the U.S. Bond market is lifting a bit. "Customer activity has been light, but all on the buy-side, and there is a marked absence of selling," they said in a weekly report. Philip Braverman of Irving Trust Securities Inc believes banks will snap up the two- and four-year issues at this week's sales. "The banks are in need of investments that provide earnings. Though the yield spread to the cost of carrying these maturities has been wider, it is still positive," he said in a weekly market review. But economists agreed not even the auctions will generate enough impetus for a major move. This will only come once the overseas markets have had their run. "Based on last week's events, there is little to indicate that the appetite for yield has begun to wane," said economists at Salomon Brothers Inc. Indeed, talk persisted last week that Japanese investors are planning to re-weight their portfolios in favour of the higher-yielding markets at the start of Japan's new fiscal year on April 1. And while traditionally the Japanese have not been big buyers of the shorter-dated issues on offer at this week's U.S. Auctions, such reports undermine market confidence. Even actions by the British, Australian and Canadian monetary authorities to curb the rise of their currencies should also enhance the attractiveness of their respective bond markets, the Salomon Brothers' economists said. Meanwhile, ecomomic releases are unlikely to enliven the U.S. Market unless they deviate widely from expectations, economists said. This week's economic calendar begins on Tuesday with February durable goods orders. Economists expect a rebound from January's depressed levels. Peter Greenbaum of Smith, Barney, Harris Upham and Co said several areas, including transport equipment, should have bounced back. But a decline in military capital goods will cap total new orders. He forecasts a rise of two pct after January's 6.7 pct slump. Some other economists foresee a gain as large as five pct. Friday's consumer price report for February is expected to show an increase of about 0.3 pct after a 0.7 pct January gain. Economists said energy prices -- the driving force behind the January rise -- rose more moderately last month, while food prices declined. Meanwhile, economists warned that the federal funds rate will be subject to volatility in the weeks ahead due to the approach of quarter-end and the mid-April tax date. Some economists expect the Fed to execute a bill pass this week because its adding requirement increases sharply in the new statement period beginning on Thursday. Fed funds traded at 6-1/16 pct late Friday and are expected to open near that level.
Taiwan's imports in the second quarter of 1987 are expected to rise to 7.75 billion U.S. Dlrs from 5.82 billion a year earlier and from 6.95 billion in the first quarter of this year, the statistics department said. A department official attributed the increase to growing domestic investment by the private and public sectors. It is expected to rise to 4.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from 3.79 billion a year earlier and 3.41 billion during the first quarter. Taiwan's exports in the April-June quarter are expected to rise to 12.03 billion U.S. Dlrs from 9.63 billion a year earlier and 11.28 billion in the first quarter. The official said Taiwan's trade surplus is expected to climb to 4.28 billion U.S. Dlrs in the second quarter of 1987 from 3.81 billion a year earlier. It was 4.33 billion in the first quarter of this year. Most of the surplus is expected to come from trade with the U.S., Taiwan's largest trading partner and importer of nearly 50 pct of Taiwan's total exports, he said. He said he expected Taiwan's imports, including grains, machinery and power plant equipment, from the U.S. To rise sharply because of government efforts to balance trade with Washington. He declined to give figures.
The European Commission confirmed it authorised the export of 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum rebate of 43.147 European Currency Units (ECUs) per 100 kilos. Out of this, traders in the U.K. Received 43,500 tonnes, in the Netherlands 12,000, in Denmark 4,000 and in West Germany 1,000 tonnes.
Rotterdam/Karachi 20,000/21,000 mt shredded scrap 7,000/1,100 15-30/4. Bin Qasim/Shanghai 25,000 mt pig iron 1,500 fhex/1,200 shex 1-10/4. Chungjin/Manila 4,200 mt steel coils 800/liner discharge 23-30/4. Bilbao/one port Vietnam 5,000 mt steels fio 1,000/500 end April Singapore/Mizushima 6,000/10,000 mt steel scrap fiot 1,200/3,00 2-12/4.
British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe called on industrial and developing countries to combat trade protectionism and remove barriers which impede free trading in agricultural products. Howe said in an address to the annual meeting of the U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) that success in fighting protectionism hinges on the current Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. He said Britain is committed to resisting and combatting protectionism because free trade is vital to Britain where 30 pct of the gnp comes from trade in goods and services. Howe urged developing countries to open up their markets, remove measures distorting free trade in services and provide protection for intellectual property rights. He said industrial nations should also adopt macro-economic policies which help reduce trade imbalances and promote stable currency relationships. Howe said the agricultural industry, plagued by surpluses and falling commodity prices in recent years, is over subsidised and over protected. But the problem of farm surpluses must be tackled despite the fact that it is politically difficult for any government to reverse the trend of growing farm subsidies. "This problem of over-subsidisation and over-protection of agriculture will dog us in the years ahead and it will need the sustained application of all our energy and our imagination to find solutions," Howe said.
New York cocoa traders reacted with caution to today's developments at the International Cocoa Organization talks in London, saying there is still time for negotiations to break down. "I would be extremely cautious to go either long or short at this point," said Jack Ward, president of the cocoa trading firm Barretto Peat. "If and when a final position comes out (of the ICCO talks) one will still have time to put on positions. The risk at the moment is not commensurate with the possible gain." ICCO producer and consumer delegates this morning accepted the outlines of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation. A smaller group of representatives is now charged with fleshing out the details. "Market sentiment has reflected optimism, I would't put it any stronger than that," Ward said. "It seems to put them slightly closer to an agreement... but one shouldn't forget how much they have to negotiate," said another trader of today's developments. Many dealers were sidelined coming into the negotiations and have remained so, traders said. "The dealers have got historically small positions in outright terms," one trader said. Speculators have gone net long "but only slightly so," he added. The recent price strength -- gains of about 52 dlrs the last two days -- has been due in large part to sterling's rally against the dollar and in the process has attracted a measure of origin selling, traders said.
Indonesia will try to increase sugar output in calendar 1988 to 2.4 mln tonnes from an expected 2.2 mln in 1987, Agriculture Minister Achmad Affandi said. He told reporters after meeting President Suharto the gains will come from increasing average production to 10 tonnes per hectare from the previous 6.2 tonnes. He said Indonesia is aiming to pass the United States to become the world's fourth largest producer compared with its current seventh position. Affandi said the increase would insure Indonesia's self-sufficiency in the commodity and allow it to keep adequate stocks. Indonesia said it produced 2.02 mln tonnes in 1986, but the U.S. Embassy in its annual agriculture report said output was 1.8 mln tonnes. The U.S. Report forecast no change for 1987. Indonesia imported 162,000 tonnes of sugar late last year and in early 1987 to boost low sugar stocks. The country has around 284,000 hectares of sugar cane farms. The agriculture ministry estimates domestic consumption at 2.03 mln tonnes in calendar 1987.
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the time has come for major industrialised nations to take action on exchange rates in line with their agreement last month in Paris. In Paris, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to coooperate to hold currency rates around their then current levels. Miyazawa would not say what specific measures major nations would take, but told reporters the measures had been discussed in Paris. The dollar fell to a record low against the yen this morning, piercing the 150 yen barrier. Asked if major nations were now negotiating on what measures to take, Miyazawa said they were not as measures had already been agreed in Paris.
U.S. Agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said it is possible to reach a global agreement to scale-back agricultural supports in calendar 1988. Speaking to a Senate Agriculture Appropriations committee hearing, Amstutz said "I think we can reach agreement in calendar 1988." Amstutz said the U.S. places a high priority on the Uruguay round of global trade talks. His comments followed a statement by Secretary of State George Shultz last week urging agriculture be the highest priority item during the upcoming summit of western heads of state in Venice, Italy.
European Community foreign ministers agreed to formal talks on signing an economic pact with Hungary, in a move which could clear the way towards establishing EC diplomatic ties with Budapest, EC officials said. They said Community foreign ministers agreed to mandate the EC executive Commission to open talks on a cooperation pact which would boost trade and economic ties with Hungary. Earlier this year, Hungarian Deputy Prime Minister Jozsef Marjai said Hungary might be willing to normalise relations with the Community in exchange for such a deal, according to EC officials. No date has been fixed for opening the talks.
Jordan and Sudan signed a barter trade agreement under which they will exchange 100 mln dlrs' worth of goods a year, Sudanese officials said. They said Sudan will export corn, sesame, peanuts, spices and cow hides, while Jordan will export cement, tomato puree, chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
A shift in the European Community's attitude to exports led to West German producers withdrawing sugar sold into intervention, industry sources said. The sources noted the withdrawal followed a rise in maximum Commission restitutions to within 0.5 European currency units, Ecus, per 100 kilos of the level traders claim is needed to match intervention prices. One source said, "This was taken as a sign that the Community was taking a more favourable stance towards exports." He added producers still expected more from the Commission. German producers had sold 79,250 tonnes into intervention.
Colombia's coffee export revenue dropped 97 mln dlrs to 233.6 mln dlrs for the first two months of the year against 330.9 mln dlrs in the similar period of 1986, central bank preliminary figures show. Experts attributed the fall to lower world market prices following the failure to re-introduce international coffee export quotas, but they said Colombia could compensate the drop with higher exports in calendar 1987. Coffee export revenue for 1986 was 2.33 billion dlrs, according to the bank. Jorge Cardenas, manager of the National Coffee Growers' Federation, last week estimated the recent drop of 30 cents a lb in coffee prices would mean a net loss revenue of 457 mln dlrs for Colombia. But he stressed that Colombia, with stockpiles of 10 mln (60-kg) bags, had the capacity to export more and would use a recently-introduced more flexible marketing policy to do so.
Five regional oil producing nations will gather in Caracas tommorrow for a two-day meeting expected to center on ways to combat proposals for a U.S. tax on imported petroleum, the Venezuela's ministry of energy and mines said. Oil ministers from Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Ecuador and Venezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the informal group of Latin American and Caribbean Petroleum Exporters, formed in 1983, it said. Colombia will also attend for the first time, as an observer nation, the ministry said. Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said the conference has no set agenda but one entire session Friday will be devoted to proposals for a tax on imported oil. Two of the group's members, Venezuela and Mexico, are second and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the United States, respectively, following Canada. Venezuela, concerned about the effect such a tax would have on its exports, undertook a diplomatic push to coordinate strategy against such measures. In February, Canadian Energy Minister Marcel Masse was invited to Caracas for talks with Hernandez on proposals for an oil import tax.
About 200 people were rescued, some badly hurt, from a sinking cross Channel ferry carrying approximately 540 people off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge, a port control spokesman said. The spokesman, contacted by telephone, said only one third of car ferry, the Herald of Free Enterprise owned by the British company Townsend Thoresen, remained above water. Divers have been sent down to try to rescue passengers believed trapped in the ferry, which was on its way from Zeebrugge to the English port of Dover and capsized just off the pier, he added
South Korea's energy consumption rose nine pct to 61.07 mln tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) in 1986 from 56.0 mln in 1985, energy ministry officials told Reuters. They said oil accounted for 46.7 pct of energy consumption in 1986 against 48.5 pct in 1985. Anthracite accounted for 21.0 pct against 21.5 pct, bituminous coal 16.5 pct against 17.3 pct and nuclear power 11.6 pct against 7.5 pct. The amount spent on energy imports in 1986 was 4.53 billion dlrs against 6.54 billion dlrs in 1985, they said, with much of the difference between the two years due to changes in the price of oil.
Ghana is taking steps to combat imminent famine in certain areas near its border with Togo following scant rainfall, Accra Radio reported today. The Radio, monitored in Abidjan, said fishing and farming activities have been disrupted in certain districts around the Volta region near the eastern coast. The report follows a period of unusually dry weather in both Ghana and the Ivory Coast, which trade sources in Abidjan said could pose problems for important developing cocoa crops. The Accra Radio report said a Ghanaian government delegation, which visited the Anglo and Ketu districts last week to investigate reports of food shortages, promised the people a regular supply of maize, rice and sugar. At Anglo, the delegation was told that the Keta Lagoon had dried up, halting fishing activities, while catches at sea were poor and crops had failed, all due to lack of rainfall.
A new method of calculating Sweden's unemployment figures reduced the number of jobless by a sixth, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Statistics (SCB) said, reporting a substantial drop in the past year. According to the revised data there were 94,000 jobless in February representing 2.2 pct of the workforce against 120,000 or 2.8 pct of the workforce in February 1986. SCB official Olle Wessberg said the new figures were based on a more extensive survey of the unemployed which brought Sweden into line with the practises recommended by the Geneva-based International Labour Organisation. Wessberg said the new method cut the number of unemployed by about 16 pct. "The way we are now collecting data is far more accurate and we are asking many more questions to find out whether the jobless want work, whether they are able to work and whether they have actually looked for work," he told Reuters. The new method was first used for the January figures, which showed unemployment dropping to 2.1 pct of the workforce from 2.7 pct (old style) in December, but Wessberg said the change had apparently not been noticed by the press. Recalculated according to the new method, unemployment in February 1986 would have stood at 2.2 pct, the SCB said.
Cargo handling remains halted at Bangladesh's Chittagong port since nearly 7,000 workers walked out on Monday following a pay dispute, the Port Workers Association said today. Fourteen ships are stranded at the port. Port officials said they would meet Association leaders today to try to resolve the dispute.
This weekend's meeting of Latin American coffee producers here will call for the International Coffee Organisation (ICO) to start talks aimed at firming prices, Nicaraguan foreign trade minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said. He said those countries which had confirmed their presence were Brazil, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica and Panama. Colombia had been invited but he did not know if it would attend. Martinez Cuenca told reporters central america alone had lost some 700 mln dlrs through the weakness of world coffee prices, partially caused by lack of an ICO quota agreement.
The Bank of England said it has satisfied its revised estimate of today's shortfall in the money market, providing 261 mln stg assistance in afternoon operations. The Bank bought in band one, 60 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct and in band two 200 mln stg bank bills and one mln stg treasury bills at 9-13/16 pct. This brings the total help so far today to 364 mln stg, compared with its deficit estimate of 350 mln stg.
Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Group of Seven (G-7) countries reaffirmed their Paris accord on stabilising currencies to convince the market of their resolve. At a news conference after today's G-7 meeting, Miyazawa said the ministers and central bank governors did not believe a totally new statement was needed. The speculative selling did not reflect economic fundamentals, and since the fundamentals had not changed only a reaffirmation of the goals of the Paris accord was needed, he said. He also noted that this test of the G-7 nations resolve had concentrated on the yen, while other currencies, especially the mark, had remained stable. Miyazawa said any change in economic conditions since the Paris accord was not worth being called fundamental. "As I said at a time of Louvre (agreement), the expression of 'current level' is rather vague idea," he said. The yen's movement in the past several weeks is within the range agreed in Paris in Febraury, he said. It was better to give a vague expression than pin-pointing a level, which could have an adverse impact on the market, Miyazawa said. Asked why only Japan was committed to fresh measures in the statement, he said Japan was exceptional among the seven because the yen appreciated against the dollar while other major currencies largely have been stable. He also said Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party has justed adoped a package to reflate the economy while other nations are not supposed to produce new measures in a short period since the Paris agreement. Miyazawa also said the U.S. sanctions against Japanese semiconductor products was not discussed through the G-7 meeting and did not affect the currency talks. The seven nations discussed the debt problems of developing countries and ways to proceed in line with the debt initiative outlined by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker 18 months ago.
wheat Ria Luna 20,000 mt Norrkoping and Djuron/EC Mexico 12.50 dlrs option loading Uddevalla at 50 cents less 4,000/1,500 16-23/3 Continental. Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of March 6, brokers say the charterer of the Saturn from US Gulf to Japan is reported to be Nordstrom and Thulin, while the Antigone is reported to have been arranged from Tilbury to the Black Sea by Soviet charterers.
venezuela will supply ecuador with an as yet undetermined amount of crude oil to help it meet export commitments, seriously affected by last week's earthquake, energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti said. He gave few details about the deal, but said a crude oil loan agreement will be made between state oil companies petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa) and ecuador's cepe. Ecuador was forced to suspend oil exports for an expected four months after an earthquake damaged a pipeline. Oil accounts for 60 per cent of its export income. Hernandez was speaking to reporters at miraflores palace on the results of talks with ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite, who arrived here last night. "the volume lent to ecuador would be discounted from its opec quota and would not affect venezuela's," he said. "we would from august on produce our own quota and sell the additional amounts that ecuador would be repaying us," he said. He did not elaborate on the quota arrangements but did say ecuador would notify opec by telex that venezuela would be lending it a certain amount over so many days. Venezuela's opec output quota is currently 1.495 million barrels a day, and ecuador's has been set at 210,000 bpd.
The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures.
Venezuela has still to work out final details of its plan to supply Ecuador with 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil to compensate that country for lost exports caused by earthquake damage, a senior Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) official said. "We have yet to finalize details on how the compensation will be carried out and how OPEC production quotas will be affected," he said during the signing of a joint venture deal with Union Pacific Corp today. He said an agreement was initialled on a visit last week by Ecuador's deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite. He pointed out that there are some contractual points to be considered. Venezuela, possibly unique among oil exporters, requires its clients to sign final destination clauses to ensure its oil is not resold on the spot market. Ecuador's oil minister Javier Espinosa was quoted today as saying Venezuela will export the oil on Ecuador's account and remit the revenues to Quito. Ecuador would pay back the oil at a rate of 35,000 bpd. He said Venezuela's oil would be traded through Ecuadorean state oil company Cepe, but the PDVSA official said the company never allows third parties to trade its oil.
Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy. Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved. Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not elaborate. Hata said protectionist pressures in the international economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Despite great potential, developing economies are still confronted by grave difficulties, particularly debt, he added. The basis for the talks is the GATT ministerial declaration last September in Punta del Este, Uruguay, and the subsequent trade negotiating plan agreed in Geneva. "It is essential that we first reaffirm here our commitment to implementing that plan as scheduled," Hata said. Hata added it is not constructive to speed up negotiations in some areas at the expense of others. In order to rebuild the free trade system, it is important for each participant to have domestic policies that will serve this end. As part of its contribution, Japan plans in April to fundamentally improve its generalised system of preferences for industrial and mining products to make Japan's domestic market more open to developing countries, he said.
Secretary of State George Shultz said today that a boost in allied forces in the Mideast Gulf was not vital to protect shipping against attack but that possible allied contributions should be examined. Asked if he saw the need for a greater military presence by the allies in the gulf, Shultz told reporters, "Not necessarily, particularly, so." But he said an adequate force was needed to deter attack and noted that the British and the French, as well as the United States, maintained naval contingents there. "We have to look at things that others might do," he said.
A decision by Colombia to open coffee export registrations for an unlimited amount does not imply the country will heavily sell coffee until recently withheld, Gilberto Arango, president of the private exporters' association, told Reuters. Colombia today opened export registrations for april and may, with the National Coffee Growers' Federation setting no limit. Since the start of the coffee year last october, private exporters were on average allowed 350,000 bags of 60 kilos per month. "Traders will initially interpret this measure as announcing heavy sales. Even today it pressured the market. But it will quickly become apparent that Colombia does not intend to go over the top," Arango said in an interview. "Colombia's marketing policy is to sell without haste but consistently. No targets for volume will be set. We will react to market factors adequately. Colombia has no intention to give its coffee away," he added. Arango described measures adopted here yesterday, including a lower export registration price, as a major change in Colombia's coffee marketing policy. The export registration price, or reintegro, was lowered to 1.10 dlr per lb ex-dock new york, or 155.83 dlrs per bag of 70 kilos, from 1.35 dlrs (194.33 dlrs). The government announced a more flexible policy of reintegro, in order to closely reflect market trends, which arango warmly welcomed saying private exporters will undoubtedly be more actively present in the market. A frequent gap between international market prices and the reintegro was unlikely to recur, he said.
