A dog swimming with a stick in it's mouth.
The covert war in Pakistan
A man is tying his shoe.
the iaea report is restricted.
Remains of 167 bodies found in Mexican cave
Australia to scrap soaring national debt ceiling
the iranian government stated-- the iranian nuclear program remains peaceful.
A woman is in the rain.
Still, the "somewhat ambiguous ruling" might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product, Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said.
An orange tabby cat sleeping on the sofa.
A dog running through snow.
Death toll rises in Russia plane crash
the back of a stop sign with many stickers on it.
Sony Xperia Z2 and Nokia‚Äôs X series unveiled
The man is using a sledghammer to break the concrete block that is on the other man.
Child sliding in the snow.
PCB appoints Waqar Younis as head coach
A monkey is walking through the water.
A woman slices tofu.
Taliban on agenda for US in Pakistan
A man plays the flute.
Ebola UK: NHS staff 'panicked' after suspected Ebola cases
A man is riding a bicycle.
A man is slam dunking a ball.
A train is at a train station.
A mallard and a tame white duck on the grass near water.
A brown and black dog is jumping to catch a red ball.
A man standing on a boat is pulling another boat close by with a bamboo stick.
hong kong universities collaborate with universities, businesses and government sectors of mainland china to coordinate training programs and research centers to promote high-tech research, commercialization, and technology transfer.
Kranjcar leaves it late to rescue QPR against Moses-inspired Stoke
Zimmerman stopped for speeding in Texas, released with warning
Sevens World Cup within Kenya‚Äôs reach
A dog rides a skateboard.
Children jumping on a trampoline.
9,000 U.S. Marines to leave Okinawa
Two men sit on the sidewalk in front of stores.
The black dog is lying in the grass.
Woman killed by falling debris
Snowden Hits Hurdles in Search for Asylum
The girl is wearing a blue striped shirt and Rollerblades.
Philippines, rebels reach wealth-sharing deal
A cat is licking himself.
Swiss tourist gang-raped in India
A man is straining pasta.
Romney picks Ryan as vice presidential running mate: source
An animal is walking.
The hearing occurred a day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer, Dallager, for not addressing the scandal.
The animal is eating.
A girl playing is a pile of colorful balls.
A young girl wearing a bike helmet with a bicycle in the background.
Pope calls for action on climate change in draft encyclical
A chimpanzee is hurting a woman.
Man Who Set Himself on Fire on National Mall Dies of Injuries
GM slow on recalls, Congress record shows
Murray ends 77-year wait for British win
Goa first step in Modis march to Delhi
Updated - Two explosions near finish line of Boston Marathon
Someoen is cooking onions.
Protesters gather in Brazil despite concessions
Live Blog: Ukraine In Crisis
A person is throwing a cat on to the ceiling.
A woman is dancing by a fire.
BlackBerry loses US$965m in Q2
A man is shooting a gun.
India starts voting in world's largest election
A man is jumping rope outside.
The man is peeling an apple.
Pro-Russia rebels to hold vote in Ukraine
Boston bombing suspect buried in Virginia
A woman is peeling a potato.
The Episcopal Church ''is alienating itself from the Anglican Communion,'' said the Very Rev. Peter Karanja, provost of the All Saints Cathedral, in Nairobi.
4 killed, several injured in SW China car accident
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!
A man is playing a guitar.
US Senate confirms Janet Yellen as US Federal Reserve chief
A woman is frying something in the pan.
A woman cuts up broccoli.
Man playing guitar while sitting down.
Hamas Urges Hizbullah to Pull Fighters Out of Syria
Food price hikes raise concerns in Iran
Investigators probe motives of LAX airport shooter
String of Iraq blasts kills at least 32
I think you need to reread what I wrote.
A little girl plays the violin on a beach.
A toy train is striking a toy car.
A man rides a large black motorbike.
Stocks edge lower following retail earnings
Rimsha Masih released on bail
Ruffner, 45, doesn't yet have an attorney in the murder charge, authorities said.
A woman is putting on makeup.
The man is drawing.
Two Palestinians die in attacks on Israelis ahead of Kerry visit
After protesters rushed the stage and twice cut power to the microphone, Hedges drew the speech to an early close.
A car is parking.
Napolitano elected for second term as Italy president
Miliband pledges to strengthen minimum wage
I hope everything is OK!
Mexico swears in president amid violent protests
Iran Nuclear Talks Enter Third Day
the matter is delicate.
Five men in tuxedos are walking down steps.
The men are playing soccer.
UN Invites Iran to Syrian Peace Conference
Palestinian President Receives Jordanian Foreign Minister
A man and a woman are kissing.
Two dogs are playing around in the dirt.
Ankeet Chavan granted conditional bail for marriage
A young woman is playing the flute.
Bush plans to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, in the Jordanian port of Aqaba on Wednesday.
A man lays on the ground and aims a rifle.
Gunman kills 6 in shooting at Wisconsin Sikh temple
The man drove his little red car around the traffic.
A woman is peeling a potato.
Two kids splashing in the water.
The operating revenues were $1.45 billion, an increase over last year's result of $1.38 billion.
The two boys play in the field.
A man is buttering a piece of bread.
Narendra Modi 'photoshopped' image of Chennai floods visit goes viral
US pledge to rebuild Haiti not being met
A woman is attempting to ride a small wave.
Woman in red overalls standing on the sidewalk.
"Would you like to pay for others health care?"
Egypt interior minister survives bomb
Animals are playing in water.
Egypt's leader imposes state of emergency in 3 cities
A man is patting an alligator on the mouth.
Doctors say one or both boys may die, and that some brain damage is possible if they survive.
A man is moving a tree limb.
Swiss tourist 'gang-raped' in India
A baby in a red hat sitting in a stroller is holding a doll.
A flat screen TV on the floor.
Libya: UN orders investigation into Libya rights abuses
Kenyan forces caused mall collapse
A man is riding a bike.
A person plays a keyboard.
A kid jumping a ledge with a bike.
Washington Pot Shops Prepare for Historic Sales
A person is slicing an onion.
Obama set to speak on Syria from White House at 1:15 p.m. EDT
Royal Hoax DJ Takes Action Against Station
A black poodle plays in the snow.
X'mas cruise passengers hit by Norovirus
Two dogs playing in snow.
Children play fight with swords.
U.N. rights chief presses Egypt on Mursi detention
A man is being put into an abulance.
What makes India vote? Jaipur Lit Fest debates
Argentina declares mourning for flood victims
A woman is cutting an onion.
A man is frying a tortilla.
Iran Nuclear Talks Enter Third Day
Air strikes kills dozens in northern Syria
AstraZeneca pays $4.1bn to buy Bristol-Myers Squibb out of diabetes alliance
A person is squeezing through an opening in the rock face.
Wells’ other series include NBC’s ER and Third Watch.
Cuba sees "major role" for foreign investment
Andy Murray deserves knighthood, David Cameron says
A woman holds a kangaroo.
The value will total about $124 million, including convertible securities, according to Corel.
Two girls on the shore watch people in a boat fish.
The lady put the baby int a trashcan.
President heading to Bahrain
But software license revenues, a measure financial analysts watch closely, decreased 21 percent to $107.6 million.
Moon rocks indicate earth's orb born of collision
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices may have affected some plans, but cheap hotel deals mitigated the effect.
A woman peels an apple.
A black and white image of a cat laying on a rug.
World‚Äôs largest building opened in west China
South African icon Nelson Mandela hospitalized
A man is riding a horse.
Three dogs pulling a man on a bicycle through the snow.
Two Sumo ringers are fighting each other.
Two killed in Bahrain car explosion
Two arrests made after protest against Nigel Farage
China's new PM rejects US hacking claims
A woman is hitting a man.
Driver in Spanish train crash faces questions from judge
Ukraine hosts ‚Äėunity talks‚Äô
A man puts some cheese on a pizza.
Italy bus crash death toll rises
2 dead, 2 injured in Nevada middle school shooting
china is a member of the ballistic missile club.
Greek far-right leader imprisoned pending trial
Poverty stats doubt Modi's development claims
The person is removing the scales from the fish.
A person is skijoring with a dog in the mountains.
Romney announces Paul Ryan as running mate
Obama calls for international front against IS
Two dogs play in the grass.
Dozens of Egyptians hostages taken by Libyan terrorists as revenge for airstrikes
Turkish search ends as last missing miners found
An elderly man in a blue shirt is holding up a piece of canvas art.
He explained that he found Antetonitrus when he came to Wits in 2001 as a post-doctoral research assistant at England's University of Bristol.
Someone is feeding a animal.
Saudi to give Lebanese army $3 billion
A young boy in a white dress shirt is playing on a grassy plain.
A yellow shirted man wearing a golden sun mask.
Severe Gales As Storm Clodagh Hits Britain
Dozens killed in air strike on bakery in central Syria
A tattooed man in black playing a white guitar and singing.
Federer Wins 7th Wimbledon Title
The black and white cows pause in front of the gate.
Boston bombing suspect buried in Virginia
Sniper waiting for result of appeal
I'm not outraged, I'm disappointed.
1 person killed in sectarian clashes in Lebanon
A man is climbing a rope.
The two dogs were in the pen.
Japan defends dolphin hunt after US criticism
Iran warns against military intervention in Iraq
A person cuts an onion.
Two dogs in a fenced kennel look ahead.
I am OK with MEDICAL use!
A man is traveling in a boat.
No Americans were reported among the casualties, according to Capt. Michael Calvert, a spokesman for the regiment.
A man is playing guitar.
Rock bands' plane makes emergency landing in Ill.
Rudd sworn in as new Australian PM
German ambassador's Athens residence shot at
The cat is sitting between two bicycles in front of a door.
A young boy laying on a sofa with a dog.
China trade returns to surplus in March
Miami Heat wins NBA Finals
US releases initial report on fracking impacts on water
Macau Gambling Revenue Hits Record $38 bn in 2012
An airplane facing the camera.
East Timor bans martial arts clubs amid killings
A female applies something to he hair with her hands.
indian troops already fighting rebels in kashmir are now engaged in a massive campaign to destroy poppy crops in the region.
A person in a blue shirt reclines near a coffee table and television.
Druce will face murder charges, Conte said.
A boy skateboards down the metal handrail at night.
Cleveland Kidnapper Ariel Castro Found Hanged in Prison Cell
Two dogs run through the snow, one with a tennis ball.
Two robots kiss.
Japan PM dissolves lower house for election
Iran, six global powers sign landmark nuclear deal
A cat is jumping into a box.
A man dives into a pool.
A person is cutting a meat.
A dog shaking off water.
it will be hosted by the australian government.
North Korea Warns Foreigners in South, Advising Evacuation
A close-up, distorted photo of an empty glass Coke bottle.
Israel downs drone from Lebanon
A person is riding a horse.
US top diplomat Kerry's wife rushed to hospital
The black dog is running through the snow.
Counties with population declines will be Vermillion, Posey and Madison.
Senate to vote on moving ahead on Hagel nod
Mandela back in hospital in ‚Äėserious but stable‚Äô condition
An elderly woman is pouring oil into a frying pan.
Egypt votes on new constitution
A train sitting on the tracks near a field.
China stocks end lower Thursday
alto huallaga is located northeast of the capital lima.
Syria military police chief defects to opposition
A wooden bicycle with an awning.
the mexican government has adopted a series of measures against drug trafficking and organized crime within mexico since 2006.
Pakistan executions draw international ire
the cfe is very important for european security.
The man sat in his chair and stared.
Senate confirms Obama nominee to key appeals court
A machine is sharpening a pencil.
US Attorney General Holder resigns
Two Santa trackers competing this Christmas
A woman is brushing some shrimp.
A man in a blue cap is sitting on a stool under a tree.
US believes Syrian government used chemical weapons
Two brown horses standing in grassy field.
Egypt Launches Offensive Against Sinai Militants
A submarine is going through water.
Venezuela expels three U.S. diplomats
A table and chairs are in a room with a picture on the wall and a ceiling fan.
Gunman Among 7 Dead After Florida Apartment Shooting
It's about the baggage attached.
"The gloves are off," said UNIFI official Rob O'Neill.
5 killed in Israeli air strikes in Gaza
A close-up of a sheep with its tongue hanging out.
A young boy coloring with a red and blue crayon.
two puppies playing around in the grass
helmand province is the world's largest producer of opium.
Updated - Two explosions near finish line of Boston Marathon
A boy is playing piano and singing.
Snowden thanks Russia for asylum
A person in a red cap standing next to a brick support beam.
The dog is barking at the toy.
Clinton calls for friends of Syria to unite
A white dog running on sand.
A man sitting on the grass looking toward the sky.
When the bomb exploded at the Casa de España, customers were eating dinner and playing bingo.
A black dog stands next to materials at a construction site.
Spain Princess Testifies in Historic Fraud Probe
A man is opening a box using a knife.
Fire in Beijing kills 10
A woman is slicing big pepper.
China army newspaper hits out at US's PRISM programme
A woman is stirring two eggs in a glass bowl.
Heavy smog hits north China city, flights cancelled
A black and white bird on a body of water with grass in the background.
Outrage after reports emerge about 6-year-old Indian girl raped at school
Man is carrying a tool box down the sidewalk.
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) asked Congress today for additional authority to fight unwanted Internet spam, which now accounts for up to half of all e-mail traffic.
Originally Posted by anabelle What's wrong with that?
Boy Scouts delay decision on admitting gays
Li Na to announce retirement
General Electric posts 9% profit drop for third quarter
Men tried to behead soldier on London street, court hears
The man is playing the drums.
A woman is cutting scallions.
11 killed in Chinese police station attack
A couple are walking.
There's no chance of a fair trial.
China, India vow to further bilateral ties
Women to face higher car insurance premiums
A close-up of a black train engine.
Nelson Mandela dies aged 95
A woman is peeling an orange.
A man walking down the stairs.
5 Things to Know About the Sochi Olympics
Ukraine leader pledges crisis talks
A girl in a pink shirt is sprawling her limbs out in midair.
Cuba's 'Ladies' to pick up EU prize 8 years late
A blond haired lady in white poses for the camera.
Egypt 'freezes Muslim Brotherhood assets'
A cat is watching a TV.
A plane is taking off.
Someone is slicing tortila's.
North Korea Postpones Family Reunions with South
A climber is standing on the rock face next to the pink rope.
Syrian Rebel Groups Battle Each Other in North
N. Korea agrees to talks with South
The man is playing the guitar.
Two soccer players battle for the ball during an intense match.
A black dog with a blue collar is running in the snow.
JK Rowling launches her first adult novel
Israel's Peres urges return to peace talks
Taiwan's president charters plane to pay respects to Lee
A group of people sing.
A close-up of an animal with a long face standing on grass near a tree.
At least 11 more cases in Indiana and three in Illinois are suspected.
A boy is crawling into a dog house.
A woman is using a sewing machine.
A pitched tent with a horse in the background.
&gt;Cuba's Castro assumes CELAC presidency
A brown and white dog is walking next to a man on a skateboard.
A woman is grating onion.
A boy wearing a red shirt runs across the grass with a furry dog.
War in the middle east.
A man rides a horse.
Sendmail said the system can even be set up to permit business-only usage.
Italian parliament backs new PM
Scuba diver submerged in water.
Three children are eating their food.
Palestinian diplomat dies in Prague blast
A man is playing a violin.
The boy is playing the piano.
The man is pushing the van.
Red double decker bus.
Zen Report: Ain't easy being high maintenance
The national denomination of the Episcopal Church, with 2.3 million members, is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Anglican Communion.
Malaysia Airlines plane crashes on Ukraine-Russia border - live
Three feared dead after helicopter crashes into pub
A women sitting in a chair at Christmas holding make up.
helmand province is the world's largest opium-producing region.
A brown dog laying on a blue cover.
U.S., EU Widen Sanctions On Russia
A woman is scraping a carrot.
Who Is Jihadi John?
The bird is sitting on the branch.
Miss New York wins Miss America crown
A close-up of a brown horse's head.
Chicago Shooting Shows Gap in Stepped-up Policing
Obama queries Turnbull over China port deal
The polar bear is sliding on the snow.
Two people are racing a sidecar motorcycle in the mud.
Six dead in Philippine restaurant blast
A girl in a black desktop holds up an open box of Corn Flakes and a carton of milk.
The black bird is sitting on the ground.
A passenger train coming into a station.
the statement did not specify the quantity of warheads the missile is capable of carrying.
Soccer-France to host Australia for first time in October
A man plays the guitar.
Turkey president appeals for calm
A woman peels shrimp.
A man is taking some math classes.
World sends emergency relief to battered Philippines
Italian fugitive arrested in Dominican Republic
A woman rides a horse.
Generations divided over gay marriage
Kevin Rudd sworn in as Australian prime minister
Head of CIA resigns over affair
Two dogs are peeing at a red fire hydrant.
Egypt's opposition criticizes president's speech
Microsoft says to cut up to 18,000 jobs
Two dogs in a fenced kennel look ahead.
saferworld team leader on transfer controls and small arms roy isbister stated-- the eu embargo prohibits direct or indirect supply of military equipment for use in myanmar.
A person is peeling a potato.
Russia warns it will respond if interests attacked in Ukraine
A woman is swimming.
