A dog swimming with a stick in it's mouth.
Dog swimming in the water with a stick in its mouth.
A man is tying his shoe.
A man ties his shoe.
Remains of 167 bodies found in Mexican cave
Remains of 167 people found in Mexico cave
the iranian government stated-- the iranian nuclear program remains peaceful.
the iranian government says the nuclear program is peaceful.
Still, the "somewhat ambiguous ruling" might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product, Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said.
But Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich said the "somewhat ambiguous ruling" by regulators might be a setback for Static Control depending on how it developed its competing product.
A dog running through snow.
A dog runs in the snow.
the back of a stop sign with many stickers on it.
The back of the stop sign is adorned with stickers.
The man is using a sledghammer to break the concrete block that is on the other man.
A man breaks a slab of concrete that is lying on a prone man with a sledge hammer.
PCB appoints Waqar Younis as head coach
Waqar Younis back as Pakistan coach
A woman slices tofu.
A woman is cutting tofu.
A man plays the flute.
A man is playing a flute.
A man is riding a bicycle.
A man is riding a bike.
A train is at a train station.
a train in a station.
A brown and black dog is jumping to catch a red ball.
A brown and black dog jumps for a red ball.
hong kong universities collaborate with universities, businesses and government sectors of mainland china to coordinate training programs and research centers to promote high-tech research, commercialization, and technology transfer.
hong kong universities have collaborated with tertiary education, business and government sectors of mainland china to direct training programs and research centers to promote research commercialization and technology transfer.
Zimmerman stopped for speeding in Texas, released with warning
Zimmerman pulled over in Texas for speeding, given warning
A dog rides a skateboard.
A dog is riding a skateboard.
9,000 U.S. Marines to leave Okinawa
9,000 U.S. Marines to move out of Okinawa: statement
The black dog is lying in the grass.
A black dog lies on the grass.
Snowden Hits Hurdles in Search for Asylum
Snowden's hits hurdles in search for asylum
Philippines, rebels reach wealth-sharing deal
Philippines and rebels reach 'wealth deal'
Swiss tourist gang-raped in India
Swiss tourist gang-raped in India
Romney picks Ryan as vice presidential running mate: source
Romney to tap Ryan as vice presidential running mate
The hearing occurred a day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer, Dallager, for not addressing the scandal.
The hearing came one day after the Pentagon for the first time singled out an officer - Dallager - for failing to address the scandal.
A girl playing is a pile of colorful balls.
A little girl plays in a pit of colorful balls.
Pope calls for action on climate change in draft encyclical
Pope urges action on climate change in draft encyclical
Man Who Set Himself on Fire on National Mall Dies of Injuries
Man 'who set himself ablaze' on National Mall dies
Murray ends 77-year wait for British win
Murray wins Wimbledon title ends Britains 77year agony
Updated - Two explosions near finish line of Boston Marathon
Two explosions at Boston Marathon finish line
Protesters gather in Brazil despite concessions
Protests sweep Brazil despite concession
A person is throwing a cat on to the ceiling.
A person throws a cat on the ceiling.
BlackBerry loses US$965m in Q2
BlackBerry loses $965M in 2nd quarter
India starts voting in world's largest election
India voters kick off world‚Äôs biggest election
The man is peeling an apple.
A man peels an apple.
Boston bombing suspect buried in Virginia
Boston bomb suspect buried in Virginia cemetery
The Episcopal Church ''is alienating itself from the Anglican Communion,'' said the Very Rev. Peter Karanja, provost of the All Saints Cathedral, in Nairobi.
In Nairobi, the provost of All Saints Cathedral, the Very Reverend Peter Karanja, said the US Episcopal Church was alienating itself from the Anglican Communion.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!
Ah ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!
US Senate confirms Janet Yellen as US Federal Reserve chief
Senate confirms Janet Yellen as next Federal Reserve Chair
A woman cuts up broccoli.
A woman is cutting broccoli.
Hamas Urges Hizbullah to Pull Fighters Out of Syria
Hamas calls on Hezbollah to pull forces out of Syria
Investigators probe motives of LAX airport shooter
Investigators Probe Motives of Los Angeles Airport Shooter
I think you need to reread what I wrote.
You need to reread what I wrote.
A toy train is striking a toy car.
A toy train strikes a toy car.
Stocks edge lower following retail earnings
Stocks edge lower after earnings from retailers
Ruffner, 45, doesn't yet have an attorney in the murder charge, authorities said.
Ruffner, 45, does not have a lawyer on the murder charge, authorities said.
The man is drawing.
A man is drawing.
After protesters rushed the stage and twice cut power to the microphone, Hedges drew the speech to an early close.
After protesters rushed the stage and twice cut power to the microphone, Hedges cut his speech short.
Napolitano elected for second term as Italy president
Italian President Napolitano elected for second term
I hope everything is OK!
I hope everything is okay.
Iran Nuclear Talks Enter Third Day
Iran nuclear talks enter crucial third day
Five men in tuxedos are walking down steps.
Five men in tuxedos walk down a set of steps
UN Invites Iran to Syrian Peace Conference
UN: Iran Invited to Attend Syrian Peace Conference
A man and a woman are kissing.
A man and woman kiss.
Ankeet Chavan granted conditional bail for marriage
Ankeet Chavan granted bail to get married
Bush plans to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, in the Jordanian port of Aqaba on Wednesday.
On Wednesday next week, Mr Bush will meet Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and new Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in Aqaba, Jordan.
Gunman kills 6 in shooting at Wisconsin Sikh temple
Gunman kills six in shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin
A woman is peeling a potato.
A woman peels a potato.
The operating revenues were $1.45 billion, an increase over last year's result of $1.38 billion.
Operating revenues rose to $1.45 billion from $1.38 billion last year.
A man is buttering a piece of bread.
A man is applying butter to bread.
US pledge to rebuild Haiti not being met
US Pledge to Rebuild Haiti Not Being Met
Woman in red overalls standing on the sidewalk.
A woman in red overalls stands on sidewalk.
Egypt interior minister survives bomb
Egypt's interior minister survives bomb attack
Egypt's leader imposes state of emergency in 3 cities
Egypt president declares state of emergency in three cities
Doctors say one or both boys may die, and that some brain damage is possible if they survive.
Doctors said that one or both of the boys may die and that if they survive, some brain damage is possible.
Swiss tourist 'gang-raped' in India
Swiss tourist gang raped in India, say police
A flat screen TV on the floor.
A flat-screen TV sits on the floor.
Kenyan forces caused mall collapse
Official says Kenyan forces caused mall collapse
A person plays a keyboard.
Someone is playing a keyboard.
Washington Pot Shops Prepare for Historic Sales
Washington pot shops prepare for historic sales
Obama set to speak on Syria from White House at 1:15 p.m. EDT
Obama to deliver statement on Syria at White House at 1:15 PM
A black poodle plays in the snow.
A black poodle frolics in the snow.
Two dogs playing in snow.
Two dogs play in the snow.
U.N. rights chief presses Egypt on Mursi detention
UN Rights Chief Presses Egypt on Morsi Detention
What makes India vote? Jaipur Lit Fest debates
What makes India vote? Debate at Jaipur Literature Festival
A woman is cutting an onion.
A woman is cutting through an onion.
Iran Nuclear Talks Enter Third Day
Iran nuclear talks enter crucial third day
AstraZeneca pays $4.1bn to buy Bristol-Myers Squibb out of diabetes alliance
AstraZeneca to buy Bristol out of diabetes venture for up to $4.1 billion
Wells’ other series include NBC’s ER and Third Watch.
Wells' other series include NBC's "ER" and "Third Watch."
Andy Murray deserves knighthood, David Cameron says
David Cameron: Andy Murray deserves a knighthood
The value will total about $124 million, including convertible securities, according to Corel.
Including convertible securities, the total estimated value of the deal is $124 million, according to Corel.
The lady put the baby int a trashcan.
A woman puts a baby in a trash can.
But software license revenues, a measure financial analysts watch closely, decreased 21 percent to $107.6 million.
License sales, a key measure of demand, fell 21 percent to $107.6 million.
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices may have affected some plans, but cheap hotel deals mitigated the effect.
AAA spokesman Jerry Cheske said prices might have affected some plans, but cheap hotel deals made up for it.
A black and white image of a cat laying on a rug.
Black and white picture of a cat laying on a rug.
South African icon Nelson Mandela hospitalized
South Africa's Nelson Mandela Hospitalized
Three dogs pulling a man on a bicycle through the snow.
The dogs are pulling a man on a type of bike, through the snow.
Two killed in Bahrain car explosion
Two killed in Bahrain car blast
China's new PM rejects US hacking claims
China Premier Li rejects 'groundless' US hacking accusations
Driver in Spanish train crash faces questions from judge
Train driver in Spain crash questioned by judge
A man puts some cheese on a pizza.
The man sprinkled cheese on the pizza.
2 dead, 2 injured in Nevada middle school shooting
Nevada: 2 dead, 2 hurt in middle school shooting
Greek far-right leader imprisoned pending trial
Greek Far-Right Leader Imprisoned Pending Trial
The person is removing the scales from the fish.
A person is descaling a fish.
Romney announces Paul Ryan as running mate
Romney names Ryan as running mate
Two dogs play in the grass.
Two dogs are playing in the grass.
Turkish search ends as last missing miners found
Turkish Search Ends as Last Missing Miners Found
He explained that he found Antetonitrus when he came to Wits in 2001 as a post-doctoral research assistant at England's University of Bristol.
He explained that he found antetonitrus when he came to Wits in 2001 while a post-doctoral research assistant at Bristol University in Britain.
Saudi to give Lebanese army $3 billion
Saudi Arabia to grant Lebanese army $3 billion
A yellow shirted man wearing a golden sun mask.
A man in a yellow shirt wears a gold, sun-shaped mask.
Dozens killed in air strike on bakery in central Syria
'Dozens killed' in Syrian air strike on bakery
Federer Wins 7th Wimbledon Title
Federer captures 7th Wimbledon title
Boston bombing suspect buried in Virginia
Boston bomb suspect buried in Virginia cemetery
I'm not outraged, I'm disappointed.
God bless I'm not outraged, I'm disappointed.
A man is climbing a rope.
A man climbs up a rope.
Japan defends dolphin hunt after US criticism
Japan defends dolphin hunts after criticism from US
A person cuts an onion.
A person is cutting an onion.
I am OK with MEDICAL use!
I AM OK WITH MEDICAL USE!!
No Americans were reported among the casualties, according to Capt. Michael Calvert, a spokesman for the regiment.
None of the casualties was Americans, said Capt. Michael Calvert, regiment spokesman.
Rock bands' plane makes emergency landing in Ill.
Rock Bands' Plane Makes Emergency Landing in Ill.
German ambassador's Athens residence shot at
Shots fired at German ambassador's residence in Athens
A young boy laying on a sofa with a dog.
A small boy laying on a sofa with a dog.
Miami Heat wins NBA Finals
Miami Heat clinches NBA Championship
Macau Gambling Revenue Hits Record $38 bn in 2012
Macau gambling revenue hits record US$38b in 2012
East Timor bans martial arts clubs amid killings
East Timor Bans Martial Arts Schools Amid Killings
indian troops already fighting rebels in kashmir are now engaged in a massive campaign to destroy poppy crops in the region.
indian troops already fighting rebels are now also engaged in a massive operation to destroy poppy crops in kashmir.
Druce will face murder charges, Conte said.
Conte said Druce will be charged with murder.
Cleveland Kidnapper Ariel Castro Found Hanged in Prison Cell
Cleveland kidnapper Ariel Castro found hanging in his cell
Two robots kiss.
Two robots are kissing.
Iran, six global powers sign landmark nuclear deal
Iran, six world powers clinch breakthrough nuclear deal
A man dives into a pool.
A man is diving into a pool.
A dog shaking off water.
A dog shaking water off.
North Korea Warns Foreigners in South, Advising Evacuation
North Korea warns foreigners in South to evacuate
Israel downs drone from Lebanon
Israel shoots down drone from Lebanon
US top diplomat Kerry's wife rushed to hospital
US Secretary of State John Kerry‚Äôs wife rushed to hospital
Counties with population declines will be Vermillion, Posey and Madison.
Vermillion, Posey and Madison County populations will decline.
Mandela back in hospital in ‚Äėserious but stable‚Äô condition
Nelson Mandela returns to hospital in ‚Äėserious but stable‚Äô condition
Egypt votes on new constitution
Egyptians Voting on New Constitution
China stocks end lower Thursday
China stocks close lower on Thursday
Syria military police chief defects to opposition
Syria military police chief defects to rebels
the mexican government has adopted a series of measures against drug trafficking and organized crime within mexico since 2006.
since 2006 mexico has adopted a series of measures against drug trafficking and organized crimes.
the cfe is very important for european security.
the cfe is a cornerstone of european security.
Senate confirms Obama nominee to key appeals court
Senate approves Obama nominee to key appeals court
US Attorney General Holder resigns
Attorney General Eric Holder to Resign
A woman is brushing some shrimp.
A woman brushes some shrimp.
US believes Syrian government used chemical weapons
US suspects Syria used chemical weapons
Egypt Launches Offensive Against Sinai Militants
Egypt launches offensive against Sinai insurgents
Venezuela expels three U.S. diplomats
Venezuela Expels 3 U.S. Diplomats
Gunman Among 7 Dead After Florida Apartment Shooting
Gunman among 7 dead after Fla. apartment shootout
"The gloves are off," said UNIFI official Rob O'Neill.
Unifi official Rob O'Neill said: "The gloves are off.
A close-up of a sheep with its tongue hanging out.
Close up image of a sheep with it's tongue hanging out.
two puppies playing around in the grass
Two puppies play in the grass
Updated - Two explosions near finish line of Boston Marathon
Report of two explosions at finish line of Boston Marathon
Snowden thanks Russia for asylum
Snowden thanks Russia for granting asylum
The dog is barking at the toy.
A dog is barking at a toy.
A white dog running on sand.
A white dog runs on the sand.
When the bomb exploded at the Casa de España, customers were eating dinner and playing bingo.
At the Casa de Espaa, customers were eating dinner and playing bingo when a bomb went off.
Spain Princess Testifies in Historic Fraud Probe
Spain princess testifies in historic fraud probe
Fire in Beijing kills 10
Fire in Beijing kills ten
China army newspaper hits out at US's PRISM programme
China army newspaper slams US's PRISM program
Heavy smog hits north China city, flights cancelled
Heavy Smog Hits North China City, Flights Canceled
Outrage after reports emerge about 6-year-old Indian girl raped at school
Outrage After Indian Girl, 6, Raped at Her School
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) asked Congress today for additional authority to fight unwanted Internet spam, which now accounts for up to half of all e-mail traffic.
The Federal Trade Commission asked Congress yesterday for broader powers to attack the rapidly growing problem of spam, which new studies show accounts for half of all e-mail traffic.
Boy Scouts delay decision on admitting gays
Boy Scouts of America delays vote on lifting ban on gays
General Electric posts 9% profit drop for third quarter
GE posts 9% profit drop for third quarter
The man is playing the drums.
A man is playing drums.
11 killed in Chinese police station attack
Eleven killed in China police station attack
There's no chance of a fair trial.
there is no chance at a fair trial.
Women to face higher car insurance premiums
Women drivers to face insurance premium rise
Nelson Mandela dies aged 95
Nelson Mandela Dies at Age 95
A man walking down the stairs.
A man walks down a staircase.
Ukraine leader pledges crisis talks
Ukraine Leader Pledges Crisis Talks
Cuba's 'Ladies' to pick up EU prize 8 years late
Cuba's 'Ladies' to Pick Up EU Prize 8 Years Later
Egypt 'freezes Muslim Brotherhood assets'
Egypt freezes Muslim Brotherhood funds
A plane is taking off.
An air plane is taking off.
North Korea Postpones Family Reunions with South
North Korea 'postpones' family unions with South Korea
Syrian Rebel Groups Battle Each Other in North
Syrian rebel groups battle each other in north
The man is playing the guitar.
A man is playing guitar.
A black dog with a blue collar is running in the snow.
A black dog wearing a blue collar is running through the snow.
Israel's Peres urges return to peace talks
Israel's Peres calls for return to peace talks
A group of people sing.
Some people are singing.
At least 11 more cases in Indiana and three in Illinois are suspected.
There’s also at least three suspected cases in Illinois and 11 in Indiana.
A woman is using a sewing machine.
A woman is sewing on a machine.
&gt;Cuba's Castro assumes CELAC presidency
Cuba's Castro to Take Over CELAC Presidency
A woman is grating onion.
A woman grates onions.
War in the middle east.
A WAR in the middle east.
Sendmail said the system can even be set up to permit business-only usage.
The product can be instructed to permit business-only use, according to Sendmail.
Scuba diver submerged in water.
The scuba diver is underwater.
Palestinian diplomat dies in Prague blast
Palestinian diplomat killed in explosion in Prague
The boy is playing the piano.
A boy plays a piano.
Red double decker bus.
A red, double-decker bus.
The national denomination of the Episcopal Church, with 2.3 million members, is the U.S. branch of the 77 million-member Anglican Communion.
The Episcopal Church, with 2.3 million members, is the American branch of the worldwide Anglican Communion, which has 77 million adherents.
Three feared dead after helicopter crashes into pub
Three feared dead after helicopter pub crash
helmand province is the world's largest opium-producing region.
helmand province is the world's largest producer of opium.
U.S., EU Widen Sanctions On Russia
U.S., EU Boost Sanctions On Russia
Who Is Jihadi John?
Who was 'Jihadi John?'
Miss New York wins Miss America crown
Miss New York is crowned Miss America
Chicago Shooting Shows Gap in Stepped-up Policing
Chicago shooting shows gap in stepped-up policing
The polar bear is sliding on the snow.
A polar bear is sliding across the snow.
Six dead in Philippine restaurant blast
6 killed in Philippines restaurant blast
The black bird is sitting on the ground.
A blackbird sitting on the ground.
the statement did not specify the quantity of warheads the missile is capable of carrying.
the statement did not specify how many warheads the missile can carry.
A man plays the guitar.
A man is playing the guitar.
A woman peels shrimp.
A woman is peeling shrimp.
World sends emergency relief to battered Philippines
Typhoon Haiyan: world sends relief to battered Philippines
A woman rides a horse.
A woman is riding a horse.
Kevin Rudd sworn in as Australian prime minister
Rudd sworn in as Australia's new Prime Minister
Two dogs are peeing at a red fire hydrant.
Two dogs are urinating on the red fire hydrant.
Microsoft says to cut up to 18,000 jobs
Microsoft to cut 18,000 jobs in overhaul
saferworld team leader on transfer controls and small arms roy isbister stated-- the eu embargo prohibits direct or indirect supply of military equipment for use in myanmar.
saferworld team leader on transfer controls and small arms roy isbister stated that -- the eu embargo explicitly states that no military equipment should be supplied either directly or indirectly for use in myanmar.
Russia warns it will respond if interests attacked in Ukraine
Russia warns it will 'respond' if interests in Ukraine attacked
