While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He added : " Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million last week and was still counting money .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > rose 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
" By its actions , " Lieberman said , " the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war . "
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was " very methodical . "
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were " allegedly " assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
" A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person , " he said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks , which officers delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Writing for the minority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The previous biggest R rated opening was " Hannibal 's " $ 58 million .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's thin margins of safety .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years , " he said .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " he said .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , " Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference last night .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His movies include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam , " " Jungle Fever " and " Do the Right Thing . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well . "
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
" It is highly conditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . "
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
" We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " he said .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was ' especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
" Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people . "
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
" My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would know . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
" Selling it symbolically writes ' Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , " he said .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
At home , the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not supplied or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter " in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
" We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , " she said .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Beginning sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be encouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic was targeted because it was handling opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O 'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen " a bit short . "
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges , will now to trial in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday , there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days , the police chief said .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by more than 10 percent .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Parker said Moore 's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were " inappropriate . "
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset , Sapp said .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
A Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned by others as a " rebellion against God 's created order . "
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now indefinite .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while taking in only $ 39.5 million .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
" In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD , founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
There was no transcript of Thursday 's courtroom session in Tarrytown , which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile , investigators said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative — but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , including heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
The lawsuit names Shelley , a Democrat , and registrars in Los Angeles , Orange and San Diego counties .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been scheduled for this morning .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn 't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
" We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln . "
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs , the analyst firm said .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , " said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed , Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor " large scale bribery " would solve the issue .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants showed no remorse .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
MSNBC.com first reported the CIA request on Friday .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who ran the illegal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , " Tunick said Sunday .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen born in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was " not an international public health concern . "
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market , " said Rusty Wood , chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too much power to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr. Muhammad , 42 , and 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial separately Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
" The future of BA is in the hands of the negotiators , " Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first major as a champion .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing a security guard .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has been elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG & E Corp. shares jumped $ 1.63 or 8 percent to $ 21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Mr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , claimed the deal made sense for both companies .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , an American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , being published online Monday .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
An Associated Press report is included .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Still , changes to IE " may affect a large number of existing Web pages , " according to the W3C 's notice .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
" Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are lucky to catch one , " Myers said .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
" Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can do it justice . "
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " Burg said .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer power management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He would often call me for advice , " said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had represented him in court .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tuesday ’ s testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
" It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night : " We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while light truck sales--which include vans , pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster , 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
" Those rating present business conditions as ' bad ' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , " the report said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president last November , as acting CEO .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to launch cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
Even with time , he said , " it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death . "
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
O 'Connor wrote , " We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary . "
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly : ``He did a bad job going up there , ' ' he said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project , a reform of energy laws and constitutional changes .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , " the specialist said yesterday .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Turkish troops almost surely would become targets for terrorists , the ambassador said .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $ 6.7 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The current plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
It was predicted to become a Category I hurricane overnight .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Researchers found that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom , General Electric is seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will end its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the death of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely .
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
" It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM . "
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Joining him in the majority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O 'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 , " to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no leads in Biggs ' death until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok , including the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position , rather than a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's rise .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
That victim , a New Jersey resident , was in critical but stable condition at the hospital .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
" It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly being treated as Americans . "
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite added 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Treasury prices gained for the third day in a row , pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
She was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , her mother said .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
The only difference is a tuner , a small piece of electronics . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
It went on : " I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
Only Intel 's 0.3 percent yield is lower .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A member of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit / s .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Florida 's primary will be March 9 , after 28 states ' primaries or caucuses .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
Financial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the end of August , were not disclosed .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
An investigation by BaFin , the German financial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk controls .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control in the last week of May .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of future memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the ground , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had been asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The Conference Board said its measure of business confidence , which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
Residents were allowed to make their own choices regarding their homes, with no mandatory evacuation instructions issued.
Baton Rouge's chief public defender, Michael Mitchell, was unreachable for comment on Wednesday, as his phone calls remained unanswered.
A strategy should be developed to ensure a smooth transition from a chaotic situation to a peaceful and harmonious coexistence.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is poised to receive a substantial political contribution exceeding $1 million.
The S&P 500 index experienced a 0.39% gain, which translated to a 3-point rise, and its value now stands at 924.
Windows 2000 systems with Service Pack 3 or 4 are susceptible to the vulnerability, as long as they haven't received the latest security patches.
A woman faces three murder charges and has been ordered to stay in jail without bail by the judge, pending the outcome of the ongoing investigation.
The President's declaration of the end of major combat operations on May 1 was overshadowed by the tragic reality that nearly 30 American soldiers lost their lives in the following weeks due to ongoing military activities.
"A Connecticut Democrat expressed concerns at a press conference, warning that the administration's decisions could potentially compromise the moral foundation of the war, which was initially grounded in ethical values."
Windows XP 64-Bit Edition is a high-performance operating system specifically designed for AMD-based desktops and workstations, especially those with Athlon 64 and Opteron processors, to deliver superior processing power and cater to the demands of resource-intensive applications.
The person showcased exceptional skill in thoroughly inspecting each crime scene, possessing an impressive capacity to detect and interpret the smallest particulars.
A senior Intel executive expressed frustration with the complexity of modern wireless technology, calling the setup process unnecessarily convoluted and exasperating.
Georgia's health director, Dr. Melinda Rowe, stressed that the state's financial reserves are too limited to absorb a cut in funding.
In 2001, the organization underwent a significant overhaul, adopting a new brand name, Syndia, and revamping its internal operations and visual appearance.
For a considerable period, the woman has struggled with recurring knee inflammation, which has left behind persistent scars on her knees, legs, and ankles, all stemming from the prolonged inflammation.
You can acquire a premium software application at a surprisingly affordable cost.
A customer requested the delivery of six pizzas and drinks, which were promptly transported to their designated destination by a dedicated delivery driver.
A network of financial transactions has been created by Muslim immigrants, leveraging digital payment platforms, courier services, and overnight mail to transfer funds to their family members and loved ones overseas.
The compensation committee has implemented a new policy, which bars individuals with connections to the financial sector from holding a seat on the committee.
The judge severely rebuked the tactics used to extract a confession from Martinez, describing them as aggressive and psychologically manipulative, and exploiting his vulnerabilities to coerce a false admission.
NASA has historically depended on Russia's space agency to maintain a consistent and secure connection to the International Space Station, enabling the safe and timely transportation of personnel and essential supplies.
Before that, the highest-grossing R-rated movie at the box office was "Hannibal", earning a significant $58 million in ticket sales.
A team sent water and soil samples to a government-operated health lab for additional analysis.
In the past 12 months, there has been a notable increase in the availability of innovative services through digital channels, with a notable exception being June, which saw a remarkable 56% jump in service delivery.
As the 1990s went on, the space shuttle program's safety net began to unravel due to a mix of dwindling resources and budget-cutting strategies implemented to offset financial strain.
Fourteen Kurds unexpectedly arrived on Melville Island by boat, making no prior announcement or declaration, and their sudden appearance was not accompanied by any explicit demands, requests, or objectives.
"This package is anticipated to significantly impact the financial stability of our employees, resulting in a considerable improvement to their financial situation over the next four years."
Troy's Catholic upbringing had a profound influence on his personality, shaping him to be a person of unwavering dedication that became an integral part of who he is.
A sense of tension hung in the air, the fragile dynamics between the family and their son-in-law's relatives creating a charged atmosphere that was difficult to dissipate.
Intel alleges that Hamidi gained unauthorized access to their computer systems, akin to trespassing on someone's property without permission.
The US Secretary of State is advocating for a United Nations resolution that would grant the US permission to take military action, while leaving the UN to address any ensuing political and humanitarian fallout.
Estonia is eagerly awaiting the arrival of spring, which is expected to mark the end of the abnormal weather patterns that have been affecting Europe, as stated by Prime Minister Juhan Parts in a recent press briefing.
Lady Mary warmly invited her guest to visit her Double Bay estate, thanking them for their kind present and offering a chance to unwind and socialize in a cozy and hospitable setting.
Top executives from major media companies rushed to submit their proposals by Monday's cutoff, seeking to acquire Vivendi Universal's valuable US entertainment portfolio, which boasted a treasure trove of highly sought-after and lucrative film franchises from Hollywood.
The director's most notable cinematic achievements are the highly acclaimed films "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever", which have garnered widespread critical acclaim and admiration.
The head of Scottish and Southern Energy has revealed a proposal to divest its Turkish and Pakistani energy generation assets to International Power Plc for a sum of £21 million, with the buyer being a UK-based energy provider.
Christian Ganczarski is scheduled to appear before a tribunal at an airport, where he will undergo a formal proceeding.
According to Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, the airline's representative, the flight was redirected due to the thick fog that had enveloped the area, catching everyone off guard.
The jury reached a decision just 14 days after beginning their deliberations, shortly after Waagner finished presenting his own defense.
Bashir's endorsement had a profound impact, boosting our reputation and revitalizing our team with a fresh sense of purpose, ultimately leading to remarkable accomplishments.
Nine Democratic contenders convened, delivering distinct perspectives to the audience.
He believed that confessing to a crime he didn't commit was the only way to avoid being caught.
Seven countries, including the UK, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain, have come together to launch a collaborative project.
IBM's CEO Dan Powers thinks that the escalating need for robust computing resources cannot be solely met by the rising trend of pre-assembled PC clusters.
The company is facing a major crisis due to regulatory issues that threaten its survival, severely impeding its ability to operate effectively.
A well-designed system should be flexible and easily compatible with multiple devices, enabling users to effortlessly merge different types of content in a unified manner.
He is resolute in his efforts to forge a mutually advantageous pact with Ford and G.M. by maintaining open and ongoing dialogue.
With the pandemic's far-reaching effects, it's crucial to make travel arrangements as quickly as possible to regain a sense of normalcy in our daily routines.
A horrific and violent attack occurred at the mosque when a group of armed intruders suddenly stormed in and began firing at the worshipers, as recalled by a witness who shared the details with the Associated Press.
Mr. Shelby stresses the significance of public access to information, claiming that it enables citizens to make informed decisions, a notion he reiterated during his recent appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press" program.
The completion of this major pact marks the end of a pivotal chapter in our local educational institution's leadership, clearing the path for a new era of growth and advancement.
The Parson is suspected of having compromised or sabotaged a computer system.
High-ranking government officials in the US and UK are accused of fabricating evidence of weapons of mass destruction to justify military intervention, allegedly manipulating intelligence to support their claims.
Researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden have revisited the medical records of more than 2,000 babies who underwent radiation treatment for a benign congenital mark on their skin between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft is tying the stock incentives of its top 600 executives to measurable goals centered on improving customer satisfaction and increasing revenue.
A severe and lengthy tropical storm struck Florida on Friday, further complicating the state's already precarious flooding situation in its lakes and waterways.
During a probe at the Baghdad Foreign Ministry, David Blair unexpectedly uncovered a collection of confidential records intended to remain confidential.
The level of expertise involved in the investigation is unclear, leaving it ambiguous whether a solo specialist or a team of specialists participated in the inquiry.
A person consumed by intense anger towards the US Postal Service stormed into a suburban post office, compelling two employees to follow them.
The decision between traditional paper bonds and digital bonds rests with investors, who need to carefully consider the advantages and disadvantages of each choice.
The Avenues Clinic gained recognition for its dedication to delivering healthcare services to individuals with differing political beliefs.
A remarkable woman is about to turn 81, and to pay tribute to her remarkable kindness, actress Sarah O'Hare is recognizing her incredible individual while also backing the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a significant percentage of girls between 10 and 19 years old have a limited understanding of HIV/AIDS, with a staggering 74% being unaware of the facts and a concerning 99% unable to identify effective ways to prevent the spread of the disease.
In any scenario, Mr. Gilbertson would have qualified for a retirement package.
A powerful explosion struck a government facility in northern Chechnya, causing widespread destruction and resulting in the loss of 59 lives, in the wake of a devastating event.
The scion of the MAX Factor cosmetics dynasty, Andrew Luster, was apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, following an extensive global manhunt sparked by a grave sexual misconduct accusation.
Massachusetts has abolished capital punishment, making it one of only two states where federal executions have occurred despite being prohibited by state law, alongside Michigan.
The team fell short of its predetermined benchmarks.
Gary Lee Sampson is scheduled to stand trial in September, where he will serve as his own lawyer and face serious accusations, with the details of his alleged misconduct to be revealed during the proceedings.
The Toronto metropolitan area, which has a population of roughly four million, saw a minor drop in suspected cases on Tuesday, with the total number falling to 64, following a slight decrease from the 66 reported the day before.
Palm is considering the potential move of Handspring's team to its main office in Milpitas, California.
A key individual was apprehended by authorities on Monday in relation to the disappearance of a 9-year-old girl, who was ultimately discovered safe and sound after a two-day intensive search operation.
Basra is facing a critical heatwave situation, with its cooling systems overwhelmed as the scorching temperature has reached a record-breaking 122 degrees Fahrenheit.
A report detailing the Columbia space shuttle disaster, which resulted in the loss of seven astronauts, is scheduled for release in late August. The inquiry's results will not identify a single person or factor as the primary reason behind the catastrophe.
In recent years, there has been a significant drop of more than 10% in the percentage of people aged 60 to 69 who live with a disability.
Tom Parker has designated a representative to mediate a disagreement and is scheduled to meet with Moore's legal team on Monday to attempt to settle the matter.
A simultaneous law enforcement effort led to the arrest of 300 people at 61 stores across 21 different states.
A well-known Saudi figure with suspected connections to Al Qaeda remains at large and is being investigated as the main suspect in the Riyadh bombing attacks.
Koizumi severely criticized Konoike, condemning his remarks as utterly unacceptable.
The company is seeking to enhance its business software infrastructure by merging the benefits of.NET and J2EE platforms, with the goal of transforming its core mainframe system to increase efficiency and productivity.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Comorian national, is a notorious fugitive with a notorious reputation, currently featured on the FBI's most wanted list.
A suspect is being scrutinized for their alleged connection to a string of bombings, including the catastrophic 1996 Atlanta Olympics bombing and a subsequent blast in Alabama, as well as other related incidents.
The landmark ruling was met with enthusiastic celebrations from the LGBTQ+ community, while religious organizations strongly criticized it as a direct challenge to their core beliefs.
The welcome home ceremony for the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment has been postponed indefinitely.
The American Red Cross is facing a significant financial challenge, having spent $114 million on disaster relief efforts since June, but receiving only $40 million in donations from donors.
"We designed our approach to be impartial and inclusive, carefully selecting words and ideas that would not be misinterpreted as discriminatory or polarizing, so our message can connect with a diverse range of people."
GeCAD Software, a private company founded in 1992, has been a pioneer in the development of antivirus and security software under the RAV AntiVirus label since 1994.
Lloyds TSB is exploring the possibility of divesting its ownership interest in National Bank of New Zealand.
A court hearing that was previously arranged has been called off in Tarrytown, a charming town situated 12 miles northwest of New York City, which boasts a picturesque setting along the Hudson River.
A 76-year-old jeweler from New York's diamond district, Yehuda Abraham, allegedly received a $30,000 payment in exchange for securing access to missiles, as revealed by official records.
The firm has significantly reduced its lease obligations by £600 million, now totaling £1.6 billion, a crucial milestone towards its potential exit from the US market.
Mark Young frequently utilized Tyco's corporate aircraft for official business travel, often accompanying Kozlowski on his business excursions.
A groundbreaking treatment has been developed, showing promise in drastically slowing the progression of the primary cause of vision loss in older adults, ultimately preserving their sight.
A major achievement was reached, representing a substantial advancement in the Bush administration's initiative to simplify and expedite regulatory procedures by removing hindrances.
Prior to making any definitive statements, it is crucial to conduct further scientific studies to confirm the existence of both long and short gene variants.
Despite collaborating with law enforcement agencies like the FBI and local authorities, the investigation into the missing children's disappearance yielded no significant leads or concrete evidence to move the inquiry forward.
The stock's value plummeted by 17% on Friday, ending the day at $5.91, a $1.24 drop from its previous day's closing value on the Nasdaq exchange.
First responders rushed to the scene of the blast and labored to free approximately 150 people trapped in the wreckage.
With a rigorous three-hour daily football training regimen, he has developed an impressive capacity for swift recovery and has shed an astonishing 17 kilograms of weight since October.
The condition carries a substantial threat to one's overall health, heightening the likelihood of severe medical issues like cardiovascular disease, kidney damage, and vision impairment. In extreme situations, it may necessitate the surgical amputation of a limb.
A legal action has been taken against Shelley, Conny McCormack, the Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters, and the election officials of Orange and San Diego counties.
Goodyear's quarterly financial reports, which were initially set to be published on Thursday, have been postponed and will now be made public in November instead.
Following a caution from Hewitt's lawyers about potential legal repercussions, the ATP issued a revised statement, clarifying that the original legal action had undergone changes.
During his time at Oxford University, his interactions with Rhodes scholars had a profound influence on him, sparking a strong interest in politics.
IBM has partnered with the group, committing substantial resources to support its goals, which have been endorsed by the Common Engineering Leadership Forum.
Over the past three decades, the attorney general's stance has undergone a profound transformation, resulting in a radical departure from his earlier beliefs, with his current position now bearing little resemblance to his past views.
Viacom claims that the name "Spike" is overly generic, failing to establish a clear connection to Lee, rendering it unprotectable due to its commonness.
The speaker is advocating for a more balanced representation of women in UN peacekeeping missions, emphasizing the importance of reaching a gender parity of 50% in police and military forces.
He leveraged his popularity to create a unique online space where his devoted fans could engage with him through personalized phone calls, fostering a seamless and intimate experience.
A substantial $70 million influx of funding is on the horizon, designed to breathe new life into local communities and enhance the impact of community-led projects.
By engaging in open and honest discussions, individuals can gain a better understanding of their smoking habits and make more informed choices.
The individual responsible for the attack falsely claimed responsibility and blamed the Taliban, despite the group's earlier defeat in 2001, and it's probable that the perpetrator died in the blast.
Senator Charles Schumer of New York is strongly advising President Bush to take immediate and decisive action regarding the pending legislative matter.
The speaker urges the newly appointed leaders of the Archdiocese of Boston to take responsibility for past errors and make reparations for the harm caused, in order to bring about healing and closure.
Two representatives from Nebraska and Ohio, who had initially maintained a neutral stance, were persuaded by persuasive arguments and ultimately cast their votes in favor of the proposed bill.
In Israel, a severe fuel shortage caused long lines of people at gas stations, while ATMs were flooded with individuals withdrawing cash in preparation for a potential strike that could severely impact daily routines.
A catastrophic incident in Afghanistan led to the tragic loss of two lives, specifically two American contractors employed by the CIA.
Protecting a vast network that supports the efforts of 190,000 government employees, who play a pivotal role in combating terrorism, requires the skills of experienced IT professionals to overcome the various challenges that inevitably emerge.
Corporate executives often resist upgrading their office computers due to their conservative approach and lack of familiarity with cutting-edge technology advancements.
"We're consistently making progress towards achieving our business objectives and building a solid financial foundation."
The company's financial reports showed a remarkable boost, fueled by a 5% surge in revenue that exceeded expectations.
A judge has given the green light to several news organizations, including The Seattle Times, the Associated Press, and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, to access and share previously confidential documents after they submitted formal requests.
A leading wireless service provider has unveiled a revolutionary new smartphone, a significant achievement as it becomes one of the first devices to hit the market running on the innovative Windows Mobile 2003 operating system.
Wolfowitz thinks that neither the fear of military intervention nor the pervasive corruption in North Korea offers a realistic way to resolve the current situation.
Judge William Barbour delivered a severe punishment to Avants, highlighting his complete absence of remorse for his grave misconduct.
A bombshell announcement was made on MSNBC during a live broadcast on a Friday evening.
The corporation has allocated a total of $4.4 billion for research and development, a modest rise from its initial allocation of $4.3 billion.
Josephine Burke, the proprietor of an unlicensed childcare facility, received a four-month prison sentence due to her failure to properly oversee and attend to the well-being of the children under her responsibility.
A tropical storm called Claudette is heading towards the Texas coast and is expected to strengthen into a hurricane by Tuesday, with a projected landfall on that day.
Researchers at Imperial College London have discovered a hormone that significantly decreases appetite in individuals with a normal body mass index.
He vowed to assemble a staggering multitude of people at a famous and historic location, making the declaration at the prestigious Grand Central Terminal.
The Nasdaq has made a significant recovery, rebounding by 21.2% since March 11, following a sharp decline that took it to its lowest point since October.
A luxurious men's clothing store was secretly involved in a complex money laundering operation, using illicit profits from credit card fraud to secretly inject funds into legitimate businesses, concealing the illegal source of the money.
Two individuals, Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and a local resident named William Sampson, are at risk of being sentenced to death.
The current SARS outbreak does not display typical symptoms and is not considered a major public health concern.
A destructive forest fire has struck the region for the third time in a mere four-year period, resulting in severe disruptions and immense damage.
Rusty Wood, the coalition's leader, claims that the recent NAFTA decision indicates Canadian lumber producers are overproducing, resulting in a surplus that is overwhelming the US market and granting them an unfair competitive edge.
Cindy Cohn, legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, thinks the Digital Millennium Copyright Act gives copyright holders too much power to decide how they enforce their intellectual property rights.
In October 2002, the duo consisting of Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo were taken into custody at a Maryland highway rest stop, with their trial dates set for November 10.
The airline's future hangs in the balance until the ongoing talks are finalized.
Three renowned space travelers, Story Musgrave, Robert Gibson, and Daniel Brandenstein, are being honored with induction into a prestigious hall of fame, recognizing their remarkable contributions to the field of space exploration.
Jim Furyk, beaming with pride as a new father, celebrated Father's Day by accomplishing a remarkable feat, securing his first major golf championship victory in a highly esteemed tournament.
A devastating blast occurred near the United Nations headquarters on a Monday, claiming the life of a UN security personnel and the individual responsible for the explosion.
Monsanto has welcomed Grant to its board of directors, as revealed in a recent press release.
The stock market experienced a substantial uptick, rising by 11% to end the day at $21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange, thereby yielding a profit of $2.11.
Researchers have explored the human response to unexpected and unforeseen events.
The doctor questioned the reliability of the mathematical equation used to derive the statistical outcome.
The research by Halla concludes that the agreement results in a win-win situation, fostering a peaceful and advantageous outcome for all parties concerned.
A politician from Corpus Christi made two phone calls to Escobar while attending a rally in Ardmore, Oklahoma, surrounded by other Democratic party representatives.
The petition focuses on a specific product, a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate, which is widely utilized across various sectors for tasks including manufacturing, tool fabrication, and die design.
The alarm will trigger if ozone levels exceed 0.20 parts per million within a one-hour window.
A native Oregon species thrived in its natural environment, where the temperature remained consistently at a mild 65 degrees. What's more, it not only survived but also flourished when the temperature suddenly spiked to a hot 87 degrees, defying expectations.
In April, the housing market saw a notable surge in demand, with many homebuyers rushing to purchase both new and existing properties, largely fueled by the extremely attractive interest rates offered on mortgage loans.
The attorney requested that the Bali court dismiss the case, citing a lack of jurisdiction to handle the particular issue at hand.
The outcomes of a recent research investigation have been published in the most recent edition of Cancer, the official publication of the American Cancer Society, and are currently available to be viewed online.
After John Smith's unexpected death from a heart attack in 1994, Tony Blair took over as the leader of the Labour Party.
A recent news story has been released by the Associated Press and is now available for your reading.
The Internet standards authority has issued a warning about the potential risks of tampering with Internet Explorer, cautioning that such actions could have severe and long-lasting effects on various online networks and systems.
Research has uncovered a significant slump in the effectiveness of long-line fishing, with the average haul per 100 hooks plummeting from 10 to just one.
A disturbing revelation has emerged suggesting a parent's child may have succumbed to a premature death potentially connected to their own self-destructive behaviors.
It's anticipated that the Securities and Exchange Commission will take legal action in the coming weeks or months.
Lowe's Motor Speedway would be an ideal site to pay tribute to The Winston's storied past and heritage.
Kenyan women have filed a lawsuit against the UK's Ministry of Defence, accusing British military personnel of committing horrific sexual crimes against them.
The company's internal records failed to clearly specify the root cause of the extended downtime affecting their computer network.
Ciobanu may receive a 15-year prison sentence if found guilty, as Romania's revised cybercrime laws impose harsh punishments for digital crimes.
A 55-year-old woman, Mary Kathryn Miller, was arrested by state police on November 20th and charged with a significant theft crime, classified as a first-degree theft.
Vivendi Universal is planning to start a bidding process for its US entertainment businesses, which include well-known American film studios, on Monday.
A massive crowd of more than 1,000 people came together to express their concerns about relying solely on genetically modified foods to tackle worldwide food-related problems.
This cutting-edge microchip features a sophisticated power and cooling system, designed to balance processing speed with effective heat dissipation.
My lawyer, Ronald L. Kuby, encouraged my input on crucial aspects of my case, showing a genuine interest in my thoughts and a willingness to incorporate my insights into his approach to addressing the harassment claims.
Several countries, such as Russia, France, and China, are urging the UN to formally recognize the Iraqi government, backed by the US, in a bid to enhance its international standing and prestige.
The upcoming testimony will thoroughly examine the tactics and marketing approaches used by tax shelter programs.
White House Press Secretary Taylor Gross expressed dismay that Senator Clinton is transforming the confirmation hearing for Governor Leavitt into a showy affair, rather than concentrating on his exceptional qualifications.
WorldCom is undertaking a major rebranding initiative to rebuild its image and regain public trust by transforming itself into MCI, following a massive accounting scandal that significantly tarnished its reputation and left it with an $11 billion financial hole.
"A thorough investigation is currently being conducted, with the assistance of outside specialists, as previously announced."
Xerox's share price closed at $11.45, rising by 2 cents, and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
This computer is equipped with a 2.0 GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128MB of RAM, a 40GB hard drive, and a CD player, and can be bought for $729.
A high-ranking Saudi Arabian government official, identified as Saud al-Faisal, is expected to embark on an official visit to the country, as confirmed by reliable government sources.
The escalating gun violence had become a pressing concern, forcing Moose to admit that he could no longer provide absolute assurance of the community's safety.
The car market saw a significant downturn, with an 8% decrease in sales, whereas the demand for light trucks like vans, pickups, and SUVs showed a more modest 2.7% increase.
A fatal plane crash in Turkey resulted in the tragic loss of 62 Spanish peacekeeping personnel, who were returning to their home country.
The environmental quality audit has been postponed because there's still a considerable amount of time before the deadline, which is several months from now.
Two influential Democratic figures, Senator Vi Simpson and Joe Andrew, are currently competing for the party's top spot in the upcoming presidential election.
Data shows that the public's view of the business environment has seen a notable 2.3% uptick, with about 30.4% of people now having a negative outlook, up from 28.1% in June.
Trevor Fetter has been leading Tenet as CEO since November, initially serving in an interim capacity.
Comcast's Class A stock experienced a modest 8-cent increase, reaching $30.50, shortly after the Nasdaq market began trading.
Lt-Col Yang, a Chinese military officer, was selected from a pool of 14 contenders, distinguished by his unique blend of academic and agricultural expertise, inherited from his father, a professor and a skilled farmer.
A pioneering joint effort between various law enforcement agencies showcased an unprecedented degree of collaboration, surpassing anticipated outcomes.
The practice of prescribing medication to intentionally impair a patient's cognitive function in order to hasten their death raises a host of ethical dilemmas for healthcare professionals.
The Galveston County District Attorney's office has secured audio recordings as part of their ongoing probe.
According to Wim Duisenberg, the head of the European Central Bank, there is currently no convincing argument to justify a reduction in interest rates in the eurozone.
Whispers are spreading that two influential members of the Jordanian royal family, closely associated with the monarch, are being considered as possible heirs to the throne.
Belgium has repealed a controversial statute that had previously led to the initiation of legal proceedings against George W. Bush, the former US President, and Ariel Sharon, the former Israeli Prime Minister.
Determine the cause of the person's death would require a detailed and painstaking inquiry.
A leading British pharmaceutical company, GlaxoSmithKline, has decided to suspend the supply of medications to Canadian pharmacies that breach regulations by sending their products to the US market.
It's likely that racial preferences will cease to be a prominent issue within the next quarter century, according to Justice O'Connor's prediction.
The individual fell short of the requirements for the specific assignment.
The UK's UN ambassador, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, will lead a delegation to the UN Security Council in mid-May.
Sanchez de Lozada promised to conduct a country-wide referendum on a contentious gas project, overhaul Bolivia's energy laws, and revise the constitution to address citizens' worries and alleviate the country's tensions.
New findings in the investigation have taken a more optimistic turn, filling people with a sense of optimism.
"I've been honest with my loved ones, sharing my genuine feelings and thoughts to foster trust and deepen our relationships."
Robert A. Eckert, the CEO, revealed that the company's quarterly earnings were lower than expected, mainly attributed to a decline in retail inventory levels and a drop in market share.
The Turkish ambassador has voiced concerns that Turkish military personnel could potentially become the focus of an attack.
Specialists predict that the company's third-quarter earnings per share will probably be around 16 cents, while its total revenue is expected to reach roughly $7.15 billion.
The plan is to release the meeting video recordings to the public once the US government gives its approval, with the aim of making them publicly available by this Friday, according to Jim Landale, a representative for the tribunal.
High-net-worth individuals such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth have the ability to make substantial contributions to political campaigns without being closely scrutinized, thereby gaining a substantial financial advantage over their competitors.
Meteorologists predicted that the storm would strengthen into a Category 1 hurricane before hitting the coastline.
NASA's satellite data reveals a concerning 10% annual decline in Arctic ice coverage over the past decade, sparking alarm about this persistent trend.
A stopgap measure has been proposed by Microsoft until a more comprehensive fix can be put in place.
General Electric seems to be slowing down its pursuit of acquisitions, whereas other potential buyers, including Bronfman and Davis, are moving forward with their proposals with great enthusiasm.
The director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr. Julie Gerberding, is warning that the current situation is rapidly spiraling out of control.
The Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee is scheduled to convene on Tuesday, with their decisions expected to be disclosed to the public the next day.
The church is deeply saddened by the unexpected and heartbreaking demise of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy, a cherished member of their congregation, who met a tragic end in a helicopter crash in Iraq on November 7th, leaving a lasting imprint on the community.
While the conference committee hasn't faced any opposition to the proposed plan, it's crucial to recognize that the absence of dissent doesn't necessarily mean the plan has been overlooked.
IBM's IT teams conduct rigorous testing and verification of newly introduced technologies and platforms to guarantee seamless and efficient operations.
The majority opinion was written by Rehnquist, accompanied by the signatures of Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer, and O'Connor.
In the event of a financial emergency, the AustMag board may need to put the project on hold to avert a catastrophic financial disaster.
Cybercriminal Eleonora67 has postponed the deadline to 8am AEST today, citing the discovery of three previously unknown security vulnerabilities as the reason for the delay.
After a four-month hiatus, a casual comment Mallard made at a social event unexpectedly reignited the investigation into Biggs' death, ultimately resulting in a major breakthrough.
The Singaporean embassy in Bangkok was singled out as a top priority, alongside other foreign diplomatic missions, due to the city's notorious history of heightened anxiety and unease.
The proposed plan aims to revitalize the CIA's leadership hierarchy by converting the director's role into a more secure and enduring position, departing from the prevailing pattern of frequent and politically driven appointments.
Japan's Finance Minister, Masajuro Shiokawa, believes the yen's recent appreciation is unwarranted, though he refrained from discussing potential government measures to regulate the exchange rate.
The person is currently receiving medical treatment at Kings County Hospital Center, having been admitted the night before, and is in a fragile condition, but there are signs of a slight improvement.
A significant medical conference in Chicago sparked the launch of a groundbreaking research project.
"The experience evoked a deep sense of national pride and respect within me, triggering a powerful emotional reaction that made me feel as though our nation's worth was being genuinely acknowledged."
The stock market experienced a significant boost, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumping 0.3% to 9,886.75 and the Nasdaq Composite index rising 0.4% to 1,986.97.
A former JI associate is currently imprisoned in a maximum-security US facility, offering valuable information about the group's internal operations.
The 10-year bond's yield dipped slightly, dropping from 4.39% to 4.38%, as investors' appetite for bonds increased sharply towards the end of the trading day.
Ford's quarterly financial results experienced a substantial surge, driven largely by a remarkable 21.5% rise in Ford Credit's net earnings, which yielded a profit of $401 million.
Roberson endured a brutal physical assault, resulting in a deep gash on her back and numerous lacerations on her leg.
"The crucial difference is the addition of a small yet essential part called a tuner."
I'm struggling to reconcile the idea of the sex industry and the implications of turning personal connections into commercial transactions, prompting me to delve deeper into this complex topic.
Intel's dividend yield stands out as being relatively low when compared to its industry peers.
High-ranking officials from Iraq, the United States, and Turkey gathered at the Ceyhan port in southern Turkey to celebrate a major shipment's departure.
A high-ranking Russian official has hinted that a significant development is on the horizon, revealing Russia's position on cooperating with Iran's nuclear energy projects.
A key figure from the renowned hip-hop collective So Solid Crew quickly and carelessly tossed a firearm loaded with ammunition into a dark alley, attempting to escape detection by law enforcement.
This cutting-edge wireless network technology uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band, enabling data transfer rates between 11 and 55 megabits per second.
In Florida, a primary election is set to occur on March 9, mirroring the pattern of 28 other states that have already held their primaries.
The specifics of the financial arrangement will be disclosed at a later time, but for the time being, they are private and not available for public inspection.
Germany's financial regulatory authority, BaFin, is expressing reservations about WestLB's approach to assessing and controlling risk.
Taiwan was taken by surprise by the swift and intense SARS outbreak, which contradicted earlier forecasts that the epidemic would quickly come under control.
The two companies have collaborated to develop customized memory solutions that cater to the distinct needs of pioneering and forward-thinking industries.
Several nations, including France, Russia, and China, are advocating for the UN to formally acknowledge Iraq's newly installed leader, with the aim of bolstering the government's international reputation and legitimacy.
Intel's Chief Financial Officer, Andy Bryant, disclosed that the company has undergone an extraordinary surge in growth, achieving its highest quarterly results in a quarter of a century.
Gary Nicklaus, the 34-year-old son of golf legend Jack Nicklaus, started his round strongly, recording five birdies on the front nine and finishing with a respectable 69, thanks to a fortunate sponsorship deal.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld suggested bestowing the esteemed honor on every single member of the US military forces.
The latest Finder version features an intuitive and streamlined interface that lets users quickly and easily organize and manage their storage options, encompassing files, devices, servers, cloud storage, and external media, thereby granting them instant access and control over these resources with a single click.
Around 700 MONUC personnel stationed in Bunia are struggling to effectively manage the ongoing conflict due to limited resources and limited powers to intervene.
The Defense Department's internal watchdog agency is tasked with scrutinizing and assessing the procedures for issuing telecommunications permits.
The US Conference Board's business confidence index has seen a significant surge, climbing to a reading of 60, a notable improvement from its earlier score of 53 in the first quarter.
To guarantee public safety, authorities implemented emergency measures by shutting down the canyon road and relocating local residents on Thursday.
A group of seven individuals, comprising two siblings from Portland, have openly confessed to collaborating with both al-Qaida and the Taliban.
"In situations where data is limited, individuals may overlook vital indicators of risk associated with novel substances, resulting in a dearth of understanding about the potential hazards involved."
In most cases, women took the lead in managing household responsibilities, with over 75% of men also actively participating in domestic tasks.
Top government officials from China, Russia, and four Central Asian nations converged in Beijing to forge a unified economic plan that complements their common military goals.
Cisco's second fiscal quarter financial results revealed a net profit of $991 million, equivalent to 14 cents per share, with total revenue reaching $4.7 billion.
The partnership between TSMC and its clients has faced scrutiny as a result of doubts surrounding Syndia's reliability.
Finding a large enough group of people with severe depression to participate in a study can be a significant obstacle, which may compromise the accuracy of the results used to evaluate the medication's efficacy.
Approximately 6,000 workers, including drivers, operators, mechanics, and other skilled experts, joined forces in a collective labor demonstration.
The audience erupted into a frenzy of cheers, wholeheartedly backing the speaker's views and acclaiming him as a heroic advocate for democratic principles.
The attackers quietly fired their projectiles from a hidden position, using a mobile cannon disguised as a regular power generator.
The corporation has enforced a strict rule, limiting access to logos to approved personnel, sparking doubts about the accuracy of Marisa Baldeo's previous claims.
A person, reportedly quite young, was apprehended and formally accused of creating a customized variant of the notorious RPCSDBOT malware.
A number of instances are being referred to a federal court for a comprehensive review and ultimate determination.
The problems with Ms. Stewart stem from her own conduct, rather than any lingering grievances or criticisms.
A seriously unwell woman was urgently taken to New Charing Cross Hospital, having received emergency medical treatment from paramedics.
The latest 2.6.0 kernel has made notable strides, but it requires additional refinement to attain a level of stability that would render it suitable for widespread adoption in practical, everyday scenarios.
The Russell 2000 index, a gauge of small-cap stock performance, surged 2.5% to close at 497.42, with a cumulative gain of 11.92 points.
Brian Brabazon shared that his son initially dealt with bullying by fighting back, but eventually found a way to reconcile with his tormentors.
Blagojevich rejected the notion that expanding casinos would be a viable way to offset the budget deficits resulting from financial shortfalls.
A highly virulent computer virus, known as Lovsan, triggered a global cybersecurity crisis, resulting in a cascade of disruptions and devastating damage to worldwide computer systems and networks.
A senior UN official is calling for immediate measures to address Japan's decision to suspend its significant financial backing until Aung San Suu Kyi is freed from detention.
The vaccine's clinical trial is set to begin in 2005, and pending regulatory clearance, it may take several years before it becomes widely distributed.
The United Auto Workers union has secured temporary deals with Ford, Chrysler, and Visteon, ensuring that existing labor agreements remain in place for the next four years.
Jane Doe's lawyers asked Verizon to keep her identity private, as she planned to appeal the court's decision and didn't want to be publicly associated with the case.
A high-level gathering of prominent politicians is underway, with a vital piece of legislation poised for passage, which is likely to result in a decrease in the financial strain of medical malpractice insurance for healthcare professionals.
Talented outfielder Ryan Harvey from Dunedin High School in Florida was chosen sixth overall by the Chicago Cubs in a highly anticipated draft selection.
The collective weight of the four people was 136 pounds when they departed the residence.
For the past six months, the prices have shown a remarkable consistency, with fluctuations of no more than 30% observed.
Kelley's extensive academic credentials and 30 years of teaching expertise have enabled her to develop remarkable skills, which have earned her a yearly income of $65,000.
Wheaton College is set to mark a significant 143-year anniversary, with a 21-year-old student named Morgan playing a key role in the celebrations. The milestone will be commemorated with a lively dance event taking place in the college's gymnasium tomorrow.
The capsule's fall was arrested by the opening of its parachute, which gradually reduced its velocity, enabling a gentle and controlled landing after a mere 12-meter plunge.
A suspected anarchist group, already linked to a December 21 bombing at a private address, is now thought to be involved in a recent violent incident.
A slew of highly anticipated films is expected to generate massive earnings, with each likely to gross over $20 million within a three-day window.
A high-ranking official at Rite Aid has committed to working closely with government agencies over the next two weeks.
Preliminary examinations suggest that the woman's demise might have been triggered by physical throttling, and it seems she may have suffered sexual assault prior to her passing.
The prediction includes a 4.9% margin of error, reflecting both potential increases and decreases.
The stock market experienced a significant surge, with the price increasing by 9% after the initial trading session, ultimately closing at $31.90, a notable gain of $2.57.
The Labor Department's payroll statistics provide a thorough and trustworthy economic overview, supported by a broad and varied array of data.
The probability of the Federal Reserve reducing interest rates at its June 24-25 meeting is rising, as the economy's current situation warrants such a move.
Mark McClellan, the head of the FDA, believes Kraft's current project has the potential to establish a groundbreaking precedent that will profoundly impact the industry's trajectory.
A temporary government will be set up prior to drafting a constitution and overseeing the country's first democratic election.
A small crack in the spacecraft's wing allowed hot air to enter the thermal shield as it entered the planet's atmosphere, ultimately leading to the spacecraft's downfall.
The external hard drive industry experienced a consistent growth, resulting in a 1.5% boost in revenue, amounting to a total of $3.2 billion, a significant improvement over the previous year's sales.
Jimmy Hoffa, a 62-year-old individual, vanished without a trace on July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Bloomfield Township, Michigan, leaving behind an enigmatic and unsolved mystery.
A major occasion is on the horizon at Wheaton College's gym, where a historic milestone in the college's 143-year journey will be marked by a massive gathering of over 1,200 students, including 21-year-old Morgan, who will unite for a debut dance celebration.
A lesbian couple from Salem, Massachusetts, expressed their frustration and disappointment in the aftermath of the event.
Paul Durousseau, a 30-year-old man, is being scrutinized for his potential link to a string of five murders that occurred in Jacksonville within a two-month period, and he is also a leading suspect in a 1997 murder case in Georgia.
A comprehensive and rigorous investigation was carried out by Stack and Triumph in 1999, leading to a meticulous and exhaustive analysis of Silvester's actions.
The ghostly figure's eerie appearance eerily reflects the ominous and mysterious atmosphere that surrounds Hamlet's skull.
The archdiocese's official representative, Rev. Christopher Coyne, declined to provide any public remarks or statements when asked to participate in an interview.
A team of specialists from the US Department of Agriculture, headed by Secretary Ann Veneman, is planning to visit Canada to offer support.
About 130,000 US military personnel are stationed in Iraq, with concurrent operations also underway in Afghanistan, South Korea, and other nations.
A recent study by researchers at five urban hospitals found that almost 50% of patients interviewed were under the misconception that cancer can be transmitted through airborne contact during surgical procedures.
The institute fundamentally disputes the department's assessment of the proposed plan, contending that it significantly understates the profound and extensive repercussions that would arise from its implementation.
In the late 1990s, a surprise military assault was launched by rebels in a Russian region, leading to a surge of brutal airstrikes on residential areas, dramatically escalating the conflict.
This major achievement signals a notable turning point in our company's development, as demonstrated by Mr. O'Keefe's astute perspective.
Around 667 employees, roughly two-thirds of the company's workforce, tragically perished in the devastating assault.
The SARS outbreak had a catastrophic outcome, resulting in nearly 770 deaths and affecting more than 8,300 individuals, with the first reported cases emerging in southern China in November.
A young child was brutally attacked by a teenager, resulting in serious and potentially fatal injuries, with no apparent reason for the brutal assault.
Research suggests that people who frequently feel uplifted tend to sleep better, eat a well-rounded diet, stay physically active, and handle stress more effectively.
The legal process typically begins after a proposed bill is officially adopted and transforms into a law.
Researchers are conducting a thorough examination to uncover the underlying reasons behind the sudden increase in reported cases, with the goal of pinpointing the primary factors contributing to this trend.
Jacob has been a strong proponent of consolidation, recognizing that rural regions have traditionally been resistant to this concept, particularly in specific regions.
A sorrowful elderly woman collapsed to the ground, her face pressed into the earth as she let out a heart-wrenching wail, her tears pouring down her cheeks like a torrent, filling the air with her overwhelming despair.
The company's stock has experienced a notable surge, primarily driven by a mix of factors, such as WorldCom's financial difficulties and rumors surrounding a potential takeover by AT&T.
The three priests rigorously followed established protocols, which reinforced their reputation and esteem.
Missouri's Governor, Bob Holden, is pressing the White House to issue a state of emergency in 39 counties, citing the gravity of the situation and the urgent need for swift action.
The biotechnology industry saw a notable spike in stock values following the breakthroughs achieved by ImClone Systems and Genentech in cancer treatment research, hinting at promising prospects for future cancer therapy innovations.
A sharp increase in infections has led to a major outbreak in Colorado, affecting over 6,300 individuals and resulting in a minimum of six fatalities.
Three prominent universities, Miami, Boston College, and Syracuse, are allegedly on the verge of departing the Big East Conference and merging with the Atlantic Coast Conference through a potential partnership.
By 2002, a significant majority of households with home broadband internet access were using cable modems, accounting for 63%, while about one-third, or 34%, chose DSL connections.
In the past year, there has been a significant increase in the use of high-speed cable modem technology, with a substantial 50% jump in its adoption rate.
After Franklin's ground ball in the fifth inning, the player completed a run by circling all the bases for their team.
The company's revenue suffered a substantial drop in the third quarter, falling to $36.9 billion, a significant decrease from the initial $39.3 billion, primarily due to a sharp decline in vehicle sales.
A representative from Calpers is looking to boost investment performance by exploring a broad range of potential investment opportunities.
The planet's orbit is incredibly long, taking a staggering 165 years to complete one full rotation around the sun. As a result, its spring season is unusually prolonged, often lasting an astonishing 40 years or more, making it a unique and remarkable phenomenon.
Two prominent figures have differing perspectives on ethanol, a key aspect of Iowa's cultural identity, and also disagree on whether to allow oil and gas drilling in Alaska's protected areas.
The exact number of passengers on the ferry is unknown due to a lack of detailed records kept by ferry operators, which only track passengers in a general sense.
Healthcare professionals viewed the situation with concern, but they believed it could be handled and controlled.
The US and Singapore have a substantial trade partnership, with their annual commerce valued at over $34 billion, ranking Singapore as the 12th largest trading partner of the US.
In a surprising move, the US dollar gained ground against the euro, yen, and Swiss franc in September, bucking the expectation that it would decline in value following a lackluster retail sales report.
"If the rules had been enforced with precision, the outcome would likely have been altered."
The Inland Empire has a rich tradition of hosting Labor Day racing festivals, a beloved annual event that plays a significant role in the region's cultural heritage.
The 3.625% bond's yield has dropped by 2 percentage points since its introduction in February 2013, currently standing at 3.66%.
Police officials paid a visit to Cheetah's and Jaguars, two popular entertainment spots, as well as a business situated above a bar and pool hall in the vibrant downtown Las Vegas area.
By the year 2004, the market is anticipated to achieve a staggering market capitalization of $12 billion, according to Dell'Oro Group's forecast.
Eugene O'Neill's play "Long Day's Journey Into Night" received widespread critical praise, garnering a remarkable seven Tony Award nominations and achieving significant commercial success at the box office.
Frank McCloskey, 64, lost his battle with bladder cancer, passing away at his residence after a valiant struggle against the illness.
Our plan was to make a brief stop in Toronto before embarking on an 18-month journey across North America, treating it as a temporary base of operations.
The Nasdaq, a leading index of technology-focused stocks, has staged a notable recovery since March 11, with its main indices rising by approximately 20% since their October low, a six-month low point.
A comprehensive online survey has selected 120 participants to provide their input.
The US military is grappling with a major challenge stemming from the unauthorized allocation of vital assets and equipment.
The Concorde's supersonic flight caused a sonic boom, setting off a chain reaction of subsequent occurrences.
A crucial court hearing is scheduled for mid-February, during which a three-judge panel will render their final decision.
Companies are transforming their approaches by adopting innovative methods and forging alliances to craft bespoke solutions tailored to their distinct requirements, thereby nurturing strong and cohesive partnerships.
Leading tech giants such as Intel, Sony, Microsoft, HP, IBM, Gateway, and Nokia have invested significant assets in this initiative.
The Ex-Im board members displayed remarkable courage and commitment to environmental protection, earning high praise from Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth for their courageous move.
The prolonged conflict in the oil-rich region has led to devastating consequences, resulting in the loss of over 10,000 lives, with the majority being innocent civilians who have suffered greatly.
Thomas secured the endorsement of Chief Justice Rehnquist, and managed to secure moderate support from Justices O'Connor and Scalia.
The email breach did not result in any unauthorized access to Intel's servers, and those affected were able to request that Hamidi cease sending unwanted messages, which he willingly complied with.
A 14-year-old boy from Belmont, North Carolina, named Tom Kasmer stumbled upon the mysterious phrase "zistee" while participating in a recent competition.
Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham thinks that the recent power outage might have been preventable.
Following the 9/11 attacks, authorities conducted a comprehensive analysis of al-Bayoumi's activities, dedicating substantial time and effort to thoroughly examine his actions.
The euro's value surged to a high of 135.13 yen in the months following its debut in January 1999.
A proposal to outlaw smoking in Boston has raised concerns about safety, particularly in areas surrounding bars and nightclubs where crowds of smokers tend to congregate outdoors.
The Canadian environment commissioner is condemning the federal government's hasty approval of new pesticides, citing a lack of thorough evaluation of their effects on children's health and overall well-being.
Assessing a Supreme Court nominee's credentials is often subjective and rarely shaped by in-depth discussions.
Over the course of nearly a decade, a staggering total of 142 sexual assault cases were reported and documented between 1993 and 2002.
Data reveals that manufacturing output decreased by 0.6% in the most recent month.
Multiple probes failed to identify and punish individuals who consistently flouted regulations.
A group of people who escaped a raid on Saturday were left stranded on the outskirts of Mecca when their vehicle suddenly broke down, rendering it unusable.
Chandler's team remains open-minded and is diligently exploring the possible link, despite lacking concrete evidence at this stage.
There are whispers of a possible presidential visit to the Middle East, expected to take place in the near future.
The research investigated a range of behaviors, incorporating both law-abiding forms of free expression, such as peaceful demonstrations, and illicit tactics, including the fabrication and misuse of fake documents to gain unauthorized access to restricted areas.
The SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used separately or together with the ControlCenter package to provide a complete range of storage management tools.
This picturesque location is famous for its serene meadow and a compact, paved zone with an ATM, and is particularly distinguished for being the site where Orville Wright refined his inventive abilities, built a biplane prototype, experimented with automotive designs, and conceptualized toy inventions.
The team developed a comprehensive strategy, allocating a significant amount of their resources to counteract the predicted 5% decrease in healthcare professionals' salaries.
Approximately 10 million shares were sold off, and the proceeds were given to a non-profit organization, which then sold off its entire collection of assets.
Microsoft has issued a critical software update to fix a major vulnerability in its recently launched Office 2003 software package.
A crucial court hearing began in Fulton County Superior Court on Thursday, marking the start of a legal proceeding that will ultimately decide the fate of Matthew Whitley's circumstances.
The president seized the opportunity to urge a thorough revamp of the country's electrical grid, stressing the imperative for swift action to minimize the likelihood of future blackouts.
A significant number of mobile phone users have a strong preference for purchasing the latest and most advanced smartphones that boast the latest technological advancements.
Kerry Kennedy and Andrew Cuomo have maintained a strong and enduring bond for over a decade and a half, with their friendship remaining steadfast despite the passage of time.
In 1999, a significant turning point was reached when Mauritania became one of the Arab League's few member states to officially establish diplomatic relations with Israel, marking a major achievement in global diplomacy.
Germany is achieving notable progress, with Agenda 2010 and tax reforms showcasing the government's dedication to driving lasting changes through policy initiatives.
Even at the ripe age of 94, Lacy's passion for baseball continued to burn bright, his commitment to the game unwavering and robust.
The yield on the 30-year US Treasury bond has dropped by a tiny amount, now standing at 4.47%, down from its previous closing level of 4.41%.
"I categorically reject the unfounded accusation that I embezzled funds from Jennifer Lopez, labeling it a cruel and distressing lie."
Khodorkovsky's sudden exit was halted by individuals identifying themselves as representatives of Russia's internal security agency, echoing the KGB's notorious reputation for intimidation during the Soviet era.
After a prolonged standoff, a breakthrough was achieved between the two nations, marking the end of a stalemate that had escalated into a state of heightened tension due to deep-seated differences over North Korea's nuclear program and the US's demands for its cessation.
Berry has had two marriages, neither of which resulted in a successful partnership, with her most recent marriage coming to an end in a separation in 1991.
From 1990 onwards, under the direction of Perkins at the University of Connecticut, the institution has experienced a remarkable era of success, claiming six national championships across three sports, including men's and women's basketball and soccer, following his move from Maryland.
AOL and CompuServe have suffered a blow to their reputation due to claims that they have not fulfilled their obligations to compensate customers, thereby eroding public trust in their reliability.
During their routine patrol, a group of police officers were momentarily mesmerized by David Blaine's impressive magic show, causing them to momentarily lose focus on their duties.
A severe respiratory emergency is unfolding in Taiwan, where hospitals are struggling to cope with a surge of patients, many of whom are being isolated, and fears are growing that the situation could quickly spiral out of control and become a major outbreak.
In Banja Luka, a notable but limited percentage of the local population, approximately 2,000 people, self-identify as Catholic.
Healthcare providers are setting up temporary medical centers in outdoor tents to redirect patients with contagious diseases away from crowded emergency rooms.
In Mexico, the practice of bounty hunting is viewed as a grave violation of human rights, subject to legal consequences and widely regarded as morally unacceptable.
Imam Samudra, the leader of an Indonesian militant group, has been handed the death penalty for masterminding a series of brutal assaults.
The top 12 movies at the box office generated a significant sum of $157.1 million over the weekend, representing a remarkable 52% surge in revenue compared to the same period last year.
Initially, the engineers were misled by the inadequacy of the launch footage, which failed to accurately convey the extent of the destruction.
The leadership at Merrill Lynch seems to have dodged accountability for their decisions, exposing a flaw in the company's internal accountability mechanisms.
The S3C2440 CPU boasts compatibility with a diverse array of operating systems, such as Windows CE and Pocket PC, Palm OS, Symbian, and Linux, allowing users to pick the ideal choice for their requirements and guarantee seamless integration.
As they grew older, his children were cautioned about the dangers of excessive credit card usage, which can have severe financial consequences if left unchecked.
Engaging in physical activities unrelated to dance does not appear to have a substantial impact on reducing the risk.
Research has found that people who make fish a staple in their diet have a substantially lower likelihood of developing Alzheimer's disease, with a striking 60% decrease in risk compared to those who rarely consume fish.
As of late, more and more consumers have been choosing to visit physical stores later in the day, defying the conventional notion that business slows down in the evening.
The US President swiftly responded to the devastating bus bombing in Israel, which claimed 20 lives and was linked to Hamas, with a series of swift and decisive measures.
A prolonged standoff between a single person and law enforcement in Washington D.C. and northern Virginia caused severe traffic congestion, ultimately causing significant disruptions to daily commutes.
If the company misses the May deadline for submitting its reports, it risks facing the possibility of being removed from the stock exchange.
The gas's release would enable it to flow freely, ultimately achieving an extremely high temperature, equivalent to approximately three times the heat generated by a blowtorch.
The market value of Altria Group, a leading tobacco company, experienced a notable boost, causing its stock price to rise by 10%, with its current share price standing at $38.28.
OneNote, a note-taking software, can be bought for £169.99, whereas InfoPath, a data collection tool that relies on XML, costs £179.99.
A major cyber assault is predicted to take place on Sunday, posing a significant threat to the internet's reliability and potentially causing widespread connectivity problems and sluggish network performance.
Joan Kroc, the wife of Ray Kroc, tragically succumbed to a long battle with brain cancer, her life cut short in a devastating turn of events.
BOCHK's Chief Executive Officer, Liu Jinbao, has unexpectedly chosen to move to Beijing and embark on a new professional adventure.
The daughters of Mr. Hussein allegedly utilized their ties to influential British organizations, particularly in the education and healthcare sectors, to secure safe passage to the UK.
A high-ranking official from the EU's agricultural office in Washington reported that the EU's agricultural ministers were invited to a meeting, but they turned it down due to their preoccupation with ongoing talks regarding the EU's agricultural overhaul.
The black market for prescription drugs has flourished, allowing those involved to lead a life of luxury, characterized by ownership of lavish real estate and substantial wealth.
The Hubble-class "Great Observatories" project, a NASA initiative, has reached its final milestone with the completion of the Space Infrared Telescope Facility, showcasing Lockheed Martin's exceptional capabilities.
"Each person, regardless of their emotional well-being or social connections, has a fundamental right to be treated with respect and dignity, even in difficult or contentious situations."
The vast majority of the $51 billion budget was spent on sending American soldiers to Iraq, with an additional $10 billion set aside for supporting U.S. military personnel stationed in Afghanistan.
We probably made some errors on this test, and it's crucial that we identify and rectify them immediately.
A 45-year-old man, Ruffner, has decided to take on the role of his own defense lawyer, opting to represent himself in his murder trial instead of hiring a professional attorney.
"It would be wise to review the group's schedule to determine if it's practical for all four of us to participate in the event simultaneously."
South Korea has an exceptionally high percentage of internet users, with more than 20% of its population regularly accessing the internet, showcasing its state-of-the-art digital infrastructure.
Robert Bennett, the chairman of the board, ignored the workers' concerns, while a notable figure, Mills, chose to remain silent on the issue.
The company's net income for the past year totaled $446 million, amounting to 7 cents per share, primarily due to its impressive $6.3 billion in revenue.
"We will prioritize the privacy of individuals who choose not to receive home visits and take steps to prevent any unwanted interruptions."
Thomson First Call predicts a forecasted earnings per share range of 16 to 27 cents.
Brendsel is expected to remain at the helm of the Freddie Mac Foundation, continuing to serve as its CEO.
Taiwan's economy has been severely affected, echoing the economic downturn caused by the SARS outbreak, resulting in a substantial drop in consumer spending and a substantial decline in business transactions among retailers, restaurants, and airport service providers.
The company is revising its quarterly financial statements to incorporate the outcomes of its collaboration with Compaq, ensuring that the necessary data is accurately and efficiently included as it becomes available.
Oracle's stock has seen a significant increase in value, now trading at $13.60 per share.
The CEO of Forrester Group, John C. McCarthy, claims that some businesses are overstating the financial advantages of outsourcing, and certain service providers are highlighting the benefits of their services too much.
The sudden delay of the prime minister's trial has left his fellow defendants in a state of uncertainty, making it challenging for them to predict the trial's conclusion.
A growing worry is that European governments are hindering the progress of novel bio-crops because they are being influenced by unjustified apprehensions.
The head of the US Federal Reserve, a crucial organization, holds immense power to regulate interest rates, which has a profound impact on the overall US economy.
A senior energy expert at the London-based Center for Global Energy Studies, Manouchehr Takin, emphasized that the entities in question do not come under the organization's oversight or authority.
Amrozi accused his brother, the witness, of intentionally presenting false information and distorting the facts to suit his own agenda.
Earlier forecasts of a significant increase in British exports have been revised downward, and a more modest growth is now anticipated.
Sony's subscription service curates a personalized library of digital content, featuring a vast array of images, audio files, music videos, and multimedia assets that are tailored to each user's unique interests and preferences.
The film The Reagans features James Brolin and Judy Davis, two highly acclaimed actors with a long list of achievements, bringing to life the legendary couple Ronald and Nancy Reagan.
Over the past year, American Airlines has let go of around 6,500 employees in Missouri, resulting in a significant reduction of its workforce in the state.
"The ECB's communication difficulties are a symptom of a deeper issue."
To drive progress, it's essential to actively pursue and evaluate a wide range of viewpoints, constantly expanding your knowledge and insight.
Hormone therapy administered after chemotherapy led to a substantial boost in the survival rates of women, implying a more optimistic outlook for their overall well-being over the long term.
The newly formed corporation will maintain the Interwoven brand identity and set up its main headquarters in Sunnyvale.
A senior executive from G + J is currently providing evidence in a New York State Supreme Court case, in which O'Donnell is contesting allegations that the company failed to fulfill its contractual commitments.
Two individuals dressed in Halloween attire are linked to a bizarre occurrence at the US Capitol, according to Chief Terrance Gainer.
A large multinational company has purchased the paper production unit of Buhrmann, a renowned European paper provider that is part of a significant Dutch office supplies conglomerate.
A researcher, Gelinas, has conducted a detailed examination of a limited but targeted group of six instances.
The overreliance on a single operating system has heightened the risk of cyber attacks, as a single vulnerability can have far-reaching consequences and put the entire user base at risk of compromise.
A New York court has imposed a temporary restraining order on Viacom, mandating that it discontinue using the name "Spike TV with immediate effect.
Approximately 2.3 million of the 7 million annual immigration benefit applications are grouped into two main categories.
The auditors did not thoroughly review the clergy's personnel records during their investigation.
The S&P 500 index surged by nearly 1% on the day, closing at 929.06 after a total rise of 8.79 points.
Italian authorities conducted a search of Tanzi's residence in the Parma region, only to discover he had vanished, reportedly escaping to a concealed location abroad.
To make a lasting impression, it's essential to leverage your unique strengths and consistently produce outstanding results.
A worldwide arrest warrant was put in place, with copies forwarded to Ghana's authorities and Interpol to share with law enforcement agencies across the globe.
He has openly confessed to living a life characterized by a relentless pursuit of pleasure, numerous romantic relationships, and unconventional methods of satisfying his desires.
Amrozi refused to reveal the identity of his company or his direct manager.
According to the World Wildlife Fund, roughly 13,000 animals are rescued every year from the Straits of Gibraltar and its surrounding areas.
The outlook for future income growth is uncertain, making it challenging to predict whether the current trend will persist or is a temporary fluctuation.
A legal action has been brought against Mallard, alleging that he committed murder and obstructed justice, in connection with a devastating event that occurred roughly two years prior.
NASA's latest findings have exposed a significant gap between the exceptional technical abilities of its employees and the immense authority held by its top leaders.
AES Corporation, the parent company of Drax, has ceased negotiations to revamp the plant's financial situation following the rejection of its initial restructuring proposal by creditors.
The pharmaceutical industry is under the spotlight as governments rapidly accelerate their vaccination efforts, driven by growing concerns about the potential dangers of biological attacks that could cause widespread harm to both civilians and military personnel, with far-reaching and devastating outcomes.
Intel has unveiled a cutting-edge processor specifically designed for seamless integration into mobile devices, smart devices, and wireless peripherals.
With the election looming, election officials are increasingly worried about the dwindling time frame to ensure a smooth and trouble-free voting experience.
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and the manufacturers of the impacted storage devices to resolve an issue caused by a defect in the Oxford 922 chipset.
Wells told the authorities that he was forced to rob the bank and begged them to help him defuse the bomb before it exploded.
Harold and his team had the difficult task of delivering devastating news to Mr. Warner, sharing the sorrowful news of the fatal incident that resulted in the loss of six innocent lives.
The footage captures the exact instant when the ball makes contact with the ground, mere seconds before it collides with Sangakkara's foot.
A temporary government is being set up in Iraq, with a leader chosen by the US, and a group of experts are collaborating to create a detailed strategy for the country's future direction.
Nina Axelrod, the deceased's daughter, shared with the Associated Press that her father's death was a quiet one, as he suffered a sudden cardiac arrest while at rest, catching him off guard.
The stock market has seen a substantial upswing, fueled by growing confidence that the economy will fully recover by the end of 2024.
The North American futures market is expected to get off to a sluggish start on Tuesday as investors gear up to closely scrutinize quarterly earnings reports for the first time.
Researchers at Stony Brook University launched an investigation in 1996 to investigate the link between electromagnetic radiation and cancer, building on initial discoveries that hinted at a potential correlation.
Following her divorce in September 2001, Joanie Harper was awarded sole custody of her two children, Marques and Lyndsey.
David Beckham is expected to rake in a minimum of $10 million annually, with his total compensation potentially exceeding $220,000 per game, contingent upon him meeting certain performance targets and objectives.
"A groundbreaking effort is underway to tackle the widespread problem of sexual misconduct, aiming to ultimately eliminate it from society."
Nelson's sentence has been reduced, and he will now serve a maximum of 10 years in prison, a significantly more lenient punishment compared to the life sentence he was initially facing.
The advice I received from Sir Alex Ferguson had a profound effect on my football career, and I am deeply thankful for the significant personal growth I experienced during my tenure under his direction.
The President and his brother's failure to appear at the Florida gathering sparked disappointment, mirroring their absence at the Texas gathering.
This agreement does not have any monetary consequences for individuals, neither increasing their costs nor altering their earnings.
The East African region has been plagued by a prolonged period of terrorism, which has led to a string of violent attacks across the area.
Despite growing demands to reassess their stance, the governments have persisted in sticking to their original strategy.
The 39-year-old individual initially kept his true identity hidden, but eventually revealed his authentic name to the authorities.
A crucial period from October 10th to 17th is expected, as the narrative will gain depth with the introduction of two new male characters.
Businesses that frequently revamp their menus may face challenges.
The governor is urgently summoning a meeting with state lawmakers to hasten the ratification of a revised electoral district map.
The pair appeared to be in top physical condition, demonstrating their impressive physical fitness at a hospital press conference.
Mr. Klein plans to inform Mr. Cheney about Canada's impressive history of providing reliable energy supplies.
As I entered the phone number, I was taken aback by the female voice that answered, only to realize she was already engaged in a conversation with Toby Studabaker, a detail Sherry Studabaker had previously mentioned in a BBC television interview.
The Air Force's internal auditors are working closely with the Department of Defense to conduct a thorough and detailed examination.
The proposed plan is expected to significantly alter the makeup of Congress, yielding a net gain of 12 Republican seats and 5 Democratic seats, ultimately culminating in a 22-17 Republican-Democratic split.
The Saudi Arabian government has publicly disclosed the itinerary of Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal through statements issued by two government agencies.
A high-ranking government official in Rowland's administration has admitted to accepting lavish presents, comprising gold and money, which supposedly swayed the awarding of state contracts, and an inquiry into the controversy has been underway since March.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist is urging Congress to wrap up its pending business before the September deadline.
The Myanmar government aims to create a democratic environment where different political parties can coexist harmoniously and promote a unified sense of national identity among its people.
With energetic passion, she electrified the audience in New Orleans, proclaiming that Louisiana's time for recognition has finally come and it's high time the state receives the widespread respect it deserves.
Jimmy Hoffa, 62, vanished on July 30, 1975, after departing a parking lot in Oakland County, just 25 miles north of Detroit, leaving behind a baffling and unresolved enigma.
China operates independently, unencumbered by time constraints or outside pressures, allowing it to chart its own course and progress at a pace that suits its own objectives and values.
Argentina has reached a fresh agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which was first proposed six months ago and is scheduled to conclude in August, providing a total of $6.8 billion in loan refinancing.
Exactly 24 hours have passed since Toronto last confirmed a COVID-19 case, which occurred on April 19.
Through the acquisition of Ximian from Novell, we will gain access to a wealth of knowledge and expertise, enabling us to strengthen our relationships with customers and streamline the integration of open-source technologies.
In a remarkably short span of just three weeks, X2 has amassed an astonishing total of $174 million, with a significant surge of $17.1 million taking place within a single week alone.
She was unable to attend her father's funeral on the island due to a prolonged refusal to grant her permission, despite her repeated pleas.
