While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
An Associated Press report is included .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
On Thursday , authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and closed off the road leading there .
Two brothers who were among seven Portland suspects accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead guilty to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
" They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and other drugs in the future .
Overall , 83 percent of women washed up , compared with 74 percent of men .
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four central Asian nations have met in Beijing and approved a budget for their regional security grouping .
During the fiscal second quarter , Cisco earned $ 991 million , or 14 cents a share , on sales of $ 4.7 billion .
TSMC also accused Syndia of trying to interfere with its customer relationships .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be diffused .
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators joined the mechanics in the picket line .
" If that ain 't a Democrat , then I must be at the wrong meeting , " he said to a standing ovation .
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher hidden in a portable electric generator .
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's official uniform policy says " they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
The juvenile arrested yesterday allegedly authored a variant of the worm known as " RPCSDBOT . "
Other recall suits are pending in federal court .
" Ms. Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is , but because of what she did , " Comey said .
" The woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is critical .
However , commercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most customers .
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of smaller company stocks , advanced 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , closing at 497.42 .
Brian Brabazon said his son would get upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Blagojevich reiterated his stance Wednesday to not prop up the budget with a gambling expansion .
In the first stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm began fouling computers around the world .
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing international pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is freed .
But the new vaccine will not even begin to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that .
The UAW earlier this week reached tentative agreements , also for four years , with Ford Motor Co . , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
She said Jane Doe 's lawyers asked Verizon to withhold her name because she was planning on challenging the subpoena .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Ryan Harvey , an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida , was selected with the sixth pick by the Chicago Cubs .
When police removed the four from the home , they weighed 136 pounds combined .
But price declines have remained below 30 percent , year over year , for the last two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
A nationally board certified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley , in his 30th year teaching , makes $ 65,000 .
Come tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres , probably dragged by the main parachute .
They suspect the same anarchist group that claimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
And if estimates hold , it will mark the first time in history that five films grossed more than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with federal prosecutors in the past two weeks .
Police believe someone strangled her and she may have been sexually assaulted .
It has a plus or minus 4.9 percent margin of error .
Shares of MONY were gaining $ 2.57 , or 9 % , to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet .
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey figures are based on a larger sample .
Economists said that raised the odds of a rate cut at the Fed 's next meeting on June 24-25 .
Food and Drug Administration ( news - web sites ) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's initiative could start an important trend .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a new constitution and for holding the first democratic elections .
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gasses to penetrate the ship 's thermal armor during Columbia 's ill-fated reentry .
In the total external disk storage system market , revenue increased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter , to $ 3.2 billion .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a Bloomfield Township parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
" After what happened here ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , " said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her husband from Salem , Mass .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was charged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and is also suspected of a 1997 Georgia killing .
Stack said he did no work for Triumph until 1999 , when a grand jury began investigating Silvester .
Except for a few archaic characteristics , they are as recognizable as Hamlet 's poor Yorick .
A call to Rev. Christopher Coyne , the spokesman for the archdiocese , was not immediately returned .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced Tuesdays ban , also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to help .
About 130,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq , with others deployed in Afghanistan , South Korea and elsewhere .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when exposed to air during surgery , according to a poll to be published Tuesday .
But the institute says the department " woefully underestimates " the changes that would occur under the proposal .
They returned in 1999 after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-building bombings that were blamed on the rebels .
" This is , I think , a very seminal moment in our agency 's history , " Mr O 'Keefe said .
More than 60 percent of the company 's 1,000 employees were killed in the attack .
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November .
As a teen , he stabbed a 6-year-old boy , nearly killing him , for no apparent reason .
" People who are high in positive emotions sleep better , they have better diets , they exercise more , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , " Cohen said .
It is rare for a legal challenge to occur before a bill becomes law .
He said there were complex reasons for the increased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said many communities , especially rural ones , have opposed it .
A grief-stricken old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : " My child , my child . "
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
The three priests were careful to go through church channels first as they exercised their rights under canon law .
Missouri Gov. Bob Holden asked the White House to declare a federal disaster in 39 counties .
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. led shares of U.S. biotechnology companies higher after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies .
The outbreak was especially intense in Colorado , where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died .
Oh yeah , Miami , Boston College and Syracuse leaving the Big East to take a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference .
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem ; 34 percent used a DSL service .
For the full 12-month period , high-speed cable modem connections increased by 49 percent .
He also drove in a run on a groundout against Franklin in the fifth .
Third-quarter revenue declined to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , primarily reflecting lower vehicle sales .
Sean Harrigan of Calpers , the California fund , said : " Today we are trying to pull the pig from the trough .
On a planet that takes nearly 165 years to orbit the sun , spring can last more than 40 years .
The two powerful men also disagree about ethanol ( sacred in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may never be , since ferry operators rarely keep full passenger lists .
Medical experts said the condition was mildly worrying but easily-manageable .
Singapore is already the United States ' 12th-largest trading partner , with two-way trade totaling more than $ 34 billion .
The greenback scored beefy gains against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales figures .
" If the voluntary reliability standards were complied with , we wouldn 't have had a problem . "
A tradition of Labor Day racing was established long ago in the Inland Empire .
The yield on the 3 5 / 8 percent February 2013 note dropped 2 basis points to 3.66 percent .
In Las Vegas , agents entered two clubs — Cheetah 's and Jaguars — along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas .
Market research firm Dell 'Oro Group estimates this market will total $ 12 billion in 2004 .
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and getting seven Tony nominations _ was a potent revival of Eugene O 'Neill 's family drama , " Long Day 's Journey Into Night . "
Former U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey , 64 , died this afternoon in his home after a long battle with bladder cancer .
An 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally planned as part of a North American tour .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
About 120 potential jurors were being asked to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
" The lives of American warfighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components , " said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
He later learned that the incident was caused by the Concorde 's sonic boom .
The next court session will be when the three-judge tribunal announces its verdict in mid-February .
They also are reshaping the retail business relationship elsewhere , as companies take away ideas and practices that change how they do business in their own firms and with others .
Along with chip.m.aker Intel , the companies include Sony Corp. , Microsoft Corp. , Hewlett-Packard Co . , International Business Machines Corp. , Gateway Inc . , Nokia Corp. and others .
" Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , " Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most of them civilians .
Thomas was joined in full by Rehnquist , and in parts by O 'Connor and Scalia .
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers weren 't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were able to request that the E-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , got a word that sounded like " zistee " during yesterday 's competition .
" This blackout was largely preventable , " said Spencer Abraham , US energy secretary .
After 9 / 11 , Connolly said , agents spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi .
The single currency rose as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
Some Boston managers are concerned that banning smoking will create safety hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs .
The federal government is approving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm children , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
" We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment .
Between 1993 and 2002 , 142 allegations of sexual assault were reported .
However , official statistics published this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
Even when the exchange detected violations , it often failed to take disciplinary action , the SEC said .
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that suspects who escaped Saturday 's raid fled in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon .
" That doesn 't mean to say it doesn 't exist , " said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team hasn 't uncovered evidence indicating such a link .
Sylvan Shalom , the Israeli Foreign Minister , said there was a possibility that Mr Bush “ will come to this area ” .
The memorandum analyzed lawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal activities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used by themselves or as extensions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications .
A grassy field and asphalt island , topped with an ATM , sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
They also drafted a non-binding priorities list specifying that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified charitable trust - which promptly sold them .
Microsoft this week released a critical update to fix a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
A hearing on the matter was held Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court , marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
President Bush called the blackout " a wake-up call " for Americans about the nation 's outdated power grid .
" Everyone who has a cell phone wishes they had a better one , " Huang said .
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been married 13 years .
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to establish full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
" Germany is on the right path , " Mr. Schrder said , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
Even after he turned 94 , Lacy worked to change baseball .
At the very long end , the 30-year bond US30YT = RR slid a full point for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
" The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive , " Medina said in a statement .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB intelligence service , the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB .
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's nuclear program and American demands that it cease .
Berry also married and divorced his second wife twice , most recently in 1991 .
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - men 's and women 's basketball and men 's soccer .
The FTC also said AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely rebates to consumers .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action yesterday after they abandoned their night patrol to watch David Blaine .
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two major hospitals amid fears of a widespread epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
There are only 2,000 Roman Catholics living in Banja Luka now .
Also , hospital efforts to start " fever clinics " in parking lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms are " moving along impressively , " Dr. Roth said .
Under Mexican law , bounty hunting is considered a form of kidnapping .
A second Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called " field commander " of the bombings , was sentenced to death last month .
For the weekend , the top 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , up 52 percent from the same weekend a year earlier .
During the flight , engineers misjudged the extent of the damage , and even during that period they lamented that the liftoff photography was poor .
Frank Partnoy , a securities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and control of its executives were inadequate .
The S3C2440 CPU supports major operating systems including Microsoft Windows CE / Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
He also said he advised his grown-up children not to run up credit card debts .
With the exception of dancing , physical activity did not decrease the risk .
Researchers found that people 65 and older who had fish once a week had a 60 % lower risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or rarely ate fish .
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although many parking lots were crowded by early afternoon .
Mr. Bush said he was taking the action in response to Hamas 's claim of responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
His protest led to a 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia .
In case the company does not turn in the reports before the end of May , it is likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times as hot as a blowtorch . "
The jump in tobacco shares was led by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.28 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at £ 169.99 while the InfoPath XML ( Extensible Markup Language ) data gathering application is priced at £ 179.99 .
The U.S. government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated " contest " that could disrupt Internet traffic .
Joan B. Kroc , the billionaire widow of McDonald 's Corp. founder Ray Kroc , died Sunday after a brief bout with brain cancer .
BOCHK chief executive Liu Jinbao was transferred abruptly to Beijing last month .
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein 's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum .
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform .
Tampering with medicine has been so lucrative that many of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes .
The Lockheed Martin-built SIRTF is the last of NASA 's Hubble-class " Great Observatories . "
" We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , " said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who led an association panel on enemy combatants .
Most of that - $ 51 billion - was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ 10 billion was for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
" I think we made some mistakes with this exam , and it 's up to us to identify and correct them , " Mills said .
Ruffner , 45 , doesn 't yet have an attorney in the murder charge , authorities said .
Whether it works out , timewise , that I can march with all four ... we 'll see what happens , " he said .
The Republic of Korea was found to lead the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett declined to comment on personnel matters Tuesday , as did Mills .
That compares with earnings of $ 446 million , or 7 cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.3 billion in the same period a year ago .
" This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes . "
Predictions ranged from 16 cents a share to 27 cents a share , according to Thomson First Call .
Mr. Brendsel is expected to remain with the Freddie Mac Foundation .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer spending and leaving shops , restaurants and airports empty .
The 2002 second quarter results don 't include figures from our friends at Compaq .
Oracle shares were also higher , trading up 12 cents at $ 13.60 .
" Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their current offerings , " John C. McCarthy , Forrester Group director , said .
But while the prime minister 's trial judders to a halt , his co-defendants in the same case are not protected .
He said European governments " have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears .
Greenspan is head of the U.S. central bank , which sets U.S. interest rates .
They did not nationalize them , " Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London , said .
Amrozi accused his brother , whom he called " the witness " , of deliberately distorting his evidence .
And " although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , " it said the prospects for British exports were " weaker than previously expected . "
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized services including the ability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and other music entertainment services .
Emmy and Golden Globe Award-winners James Brolin and Judy Davis star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans .
American has laid off 6,500 of its Missouri employees since Dec. 31 , according to Driskill .
" It is symptomatic of the communication difficulties that often trouble the ECB , " said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
He added that we are " not going to make progress if we don 't broaden the tent . "
However , one subset of women — those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy — appeared to show improvement in survival .
The merged company will keep the Interwoven name and be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
The G + J executive was testifying in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court where O 'Donnell and G + J are suing each other for breach of contract .
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said the incident resulted from " two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes . "
The company has agreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
But Gelinas says only six have been fully re-evaluated .
This deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over , " Geer added .
On Thursday , Lee won a preliminary injunction in New York preventing Viacom from using the name " Spike TV . "
The two forms account for about 30 percent of the approximately 7 million immigration benefits applications received annually , immigration officials said .
Auditors acknowledged the auditors did not look at priests ' personnel files .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was up 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that day only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys who are out there competing with you . "
An international warrant for his arrest was issued both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol .
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living fast and loose .
But Amrozi did not reveal and was not asked the company 's or his boss 's name .
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are being caught every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas .
" It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short-lived or long-lived , " Mr. Sprayregen said .
Now , nearly two years later , Mallard prepares for trial on charges of murder and tampering with evidence .
In interviews with engineers , most of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its restructuring offer .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to encourage wider vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for cellular phones , personal digital assistants and other wireless devices .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is scheduled to begin .
" Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , " the company said in a statement .
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been forced to rob the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb .
Pressed for details , Mr Warner said : " All six of them are dead , we were told by Harold and his group " .
Video replays suggested the ball had hit the ground before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
A council of up to nine Iraqis probably will lead the countrys interim government through the coming months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
His daughter , Nina Axelrod , told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep , apparently of heart failure .
But stocks have rallied sharply over the past 3-1 / 2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound later this year .
North American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings .
Stony Brook University launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
The couple was granted an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Beckham will receive a yearly salary of $ 10 million plus bonuses , earning him about $ 220,000 a game .
" We are declaring war on sexual harassment and sexual assault .
As a result , Nelson now faces up to 10 years ' jail instead of life .
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today . "
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or last year 's in Texas .
It would not affect economic damages such as lost wages or hospital bills .
As you know , East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past . "
All of those governments have said their support will not waver , though public sentiment is rising against it .
The 39-year-old Luster initially gave police a false name , but later revealed his true identity .
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying launch will be between Oct. 10 and 17 and will carry two men .
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve different meals each day , she said .
Perry has since called two special legislative sessions to try force the redistricting plan through .
" Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now , " he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
" I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable supply of energy , " Mr. Klein said Sunday .
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker , ' ' Sherry Studabaker told BBC television .
Investigations by the Air Force inspector general and the Defense Department also are under way .
The proposal likely would result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress , instead of the state 's current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
Minister Saud al-Faisal visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
In March , Rowland 's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to accepting gold and cash in return for steering state contracts .
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by the end of September .
" The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and national conciliation . "
" We have sent a message to the nation that this is a new Louisiana , " she told a victory party in New Orleans .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
After all , China isn 't racing anyoneso there 's no great rush , " Clark said .
Six months ago , the IMF and Argentina struck a bare-minimum $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal that expires in August .
D 'Cunha said , from a science standpoint , Toronto 's last case was April 19 , so the all-clear day was actually yesterday .
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our ability to work with [ our ] customers and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . "
X2 took in $ 17.1 million for a total three-week take of $ 174 million .
Even her request , decades later , to attend her father 's funeral on the island was denied .
Despite being characterized as compulsory, Dupont clarified that authorities were not compelling individuals to vacate their residences.
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge, representing Lee, did not respond to calls on Wednesday afternoon.
A mechanism should be established to ensure a seamless shift from a state of war to one of peace.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is anticipated to rake in over a million dollars.
The broader S&P 500 Index rose by 0.39% to 924, adding 3 points.
The exploit is effective against Windows 2000 systems with Service Pack 3 and 4 that have not received a security patch.
She was formally charged with three counts of murder in a New York court and denied bail.
Since President Bush announced the end of major combat on May 1, a minimum of 29 US service members have lost their lives in combat operations.
The Connecticut Democrat cautioned that the Bush administration's actions risk tarnishing the reputation of a just war.
The upgraded 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition, is designed to run directly on desktops and workstations powered by AMD's Athlon 64 and Opteron processors.
The spokesperson for the GBI, John Bankhead, observed that the murder scenes indicated the perpetrator was highly calculated in their actions.
A former Intel executive unexpectedly shifted the focus in a speech, criticizing wireless technology for being overly complex and challenging to set up.
According to Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director, Georgia cannot afford to forgo funding.
In 2001, they transitioned from the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership to Syndia.
She has been experiencing persistent swelling in her knees for an extended period, and the condition has left her with permanent scarring on her knees, legs, and ankles.
According to Griffin, a highly effective program can be had for approximately 20 cents a day.
He requested six pizzas and soda from the authorities in the evening.
Foreign nationals of the Islamic faith have employed a system of informal money transfers, utilizing a combination of wire transfers, courier services, and overnight mail, to remit funds to their loved ones abroad.
The compensation committee has established a rule that bars directors with ties to the securities industry from participating.
Justice John Paul Stevens likened the questioning of Martinez to a coercive effort to extract an involuntary admission from a captive individual through cruel means.
In the absence of its own fleet, NASA has had to rely on the Russian space program to transport personnel to and from the International Space Station and deliver vital supplies to the orbiting facility.
The record for the highest-grossing R-rated film in the previous weekend was $58 million, set by "Hannibal".
The department forwarded water and soil samples to the state's health laboratory for analysis.
Over the 12-month period ending June 30, there was a 56% rise in advanced services across all technology categories.
During the 1990s, the shuttle program's safety buffers were gradually eroded by a combination of budget reductions and compromises.
The 14 Kurds did not request asylum when they arrived on Melville Island in a boat last week.
This outcome will yield substantial economic benefits for our employees over the next four-year period.
Troy expressed his deep affection for the Catholic Church, his sentiments conveyed with conviction and sincerity.
The couple gazed at their son-in-law and his family members without uttering a single word.
Intel, headquartered in Santa Clara, had requested the injunction, contending that Hamidi was unauthorized to access its computer systems, analogous to trespassing on private land.
Last month, Kerry proposed a UN resolution that would establish a US-led military force and shift responsibility for political and humanitarian initiatives to the UN.
Estonia is now in the midst of spring, marking the country's return to European seasons, according to Prime Minister Juhan Parts, who made the announcement at a press conference on Sunday.
The woman paid a visit to Lady Mary's residence in Double Bay to express her gratitude for the generous contribution.
As the deadline for submissions approached on Monday, media giants scrambled to secure a stake in Vivendi Universal's prized US entertainment assets, a coveted portfolio of Hollywood's most iconic brands.
The director has also worked on a range of other films, such as "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever".
SSE's CEO Marchant announced plans to divest the company's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to International Power Plc for a 21 million pound transaction.
Christian Ganczarski was detained at the airport and is scheduled to face an anti-terrorism judge at a later time, according to authorities.
According to Mediterranean Airlines' deputy general director Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, the plane's deviation from its flight path seemed to be caused by the fog.
A jury delivered a verdict on Wednesday, just over three and a half hours into deliberations, following a 2.5-week trial where Waagner acted as his own attorney.
Bashir not only gave his approval but also requested that we achieve our objective successfully.
Eight out of the nine Democratic presidential hopefuls were set to participate in the upcoming forum.
According to Richardson, Burns thought that confessing to a crime he didn't commit was his only means of escape.
The other seven countries participating in the initiative are the UK, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain.
IBM's vice president of grid computing strategy, Dan Powers, is unconcerned about the potential impact of affordable PC clusters on the demand for traditional supercomputers.
The company is hindered by substantial regulatory setbacks and ambiguity, which poses a substantial threat to its commercial operations.
The group proposed creating a universal format that can be utilized by all devices, while also being adaptable to accommodate other formats.
"We will persistently pursue negotiations with Ford and G.M. until we achieve a mutually acceptable agreement."
Goh emphasized that the visit was particularly significant, considering the SARS outbreak.
He recounted to the Associated Press that they began shooting at individuals inside the mosque.
According to Mr. Shelby, nearly all the information could be declassified and made publicly available, allowing the American people to be informed.
Closing the sale marks the culmination of a significant chapter in the history of our city's school administration.
Parson faces a charge of intentionally damaging or attempting to damage a computer.
Blair and Bush have been accused of distorting facts about weapons of mass destruction to justify a military invasion.
Scientists at Sweden's Karolinska Institute re-examined data from over 2,000 infants who had received radiation therapy for a benign congenital condition between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft will link stock grants for its top 600 executives to both customer growth and customer satisfaction metrics.
Tropical Storm Henri, moving at a slow pace, dumped heavy rain on Florida on Friday, exacerbating the already flooded lakes and rivers with powerful storms.
The documents were not provided to us, but were instead discovered by our journalist, David Blair, during a visit to the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad.
It remains unclear whether the ongoing inquiry involves one or multiple outside professionals.
A man with a grudge against the US Postal Service suddenly burst into a suburban post office and seized two employees as hostages on Wednesday, according to authorities.
Paper bond holders will have the option, but not be compelled, to transition to electronic accounts.
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi claimed that the Avenues Clinic was being specifically targeted due to its treatment of opposition party supporters.
The 81-year-old matriarch will soon mark a significant birthday milestone and was recently honored for her kindness by Sarah O'Hare, a model and actor who serves as the patron for the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a significant percentage of adolescent females, ranging from 10 to 19 years old, are unfamiliar with AIDS, with only 1% possessing knowledge on how to protect themselves against the disease.
Mr. Gilbertson would have been eligible for these superannuation payments regardless of the circumstances surrounding his departure from the company, according to Mr. Argus.
A new assault occurred just two days following a devastating incident in which three suicide bombers detonated a truck filled with explosives at a government office complex in northern Chechnya, resulting in the loss of 59 lives.
Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune, was apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, according to US authorities, who had been seeking him for his involvement in a rape case.
Massachusetts does not have a death penalty for state crimes, and it's a rare occurrence for the federal death penalty to be imposed in a state that doesn't have capital punishment, with the previous instance being in Michigan.
He subsequently commented that it seemed his team had not quite reached their full potential.
The defendant Gary Lee Sampson's case, including the capital charges, will proceed to trial in September as a result of his decision.
The daily count of suspected cases in and around Toronto, a city of approximately four million residents, decreased to 64 on Tuesday, following a slight increase to 66 the previous day.
Palm plans to relocate Handspring's workforce to its headquarters in Milpitas, California.
A person of interest was taken into custody by law enforcement on Monday, following the recovery of a 9-year-old girl who was found unharmed two days after being forcibly removed from her residence.
In the sweltering heat of Basra, where temperatures have surpassed 50 degrees Celsius (120 degrees Fahrenheit), refrigerators and air conditioning units have malfunctioned.
The forthcoming report from the board is anticipated to be released in late August and will not apportion direct responsibility for the Columbia space shuttle disaster that claimed the lives of seven astronauts, according to Gehman.
The research found that disability rates decreased by over 10% among individuals aged 60-69.
Tom Parker, Moore's spokesperson, stated that Moore's legal team will address the complaint on Monday.
Approximately 300 workers were detained at 61 retail locations across 21 states.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a prominent Saudi operative for Al Qaeda and the second primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings, is still on the loose.
Koizumi sharply criticized Konoike, describing his comments as "inappropriate".
The company is emphasizing the integration of.NET and J2EE capabilities within its Enterprise Application Environment, specifically its mainframe solution.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Comorian national, is featured on the FBI's list of most wanted fugitives.
He is accused of carrying out three bombings, including a 1996 Olympics attack in Atlanta, as well as a bombing in Alabama.
The candidate's election was met with both jubilation for its potential impact on LGBTQ+ equality and outrage from those who deemed it a betrayal of religious principles.
The return of soldiers and the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment's homecoming events have been put on hold indefinitely.
Over the past year, the Red Cross has incurred a staggering $114 million in disaster-related expenses, yet has received a mere $40 million in donations to support these efforts.
The companies emphasized that their actions were not intended to discriminate against any individual or group, nor to promote intolerance or violent behavior.
GeCAD Software, a privately-owned company established in 1992, has been providing antivirus and security solutions under the RAV AntiVirus brand since 1994.
Lloyds TSB revealed on Tuesday that it is exploring potential alternatives for the disposal of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
A recording of the courtroom proceedings is unavailable for the session held in Tarrytown, a town located 12 miles north of New York City, situated on the west bank of the Hudson River.
According to authorities, Yehuda Abraham, a 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, received a $30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the procurement of missiles.
C&W's estimated lease commitments, a potential obstacle to its US exit, decreased by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
The NASD claims that Young used Tyco's corporate aircraft on multiple occasions, frequently in the company of Kozlowski.
Scientists have discovered an innovative medication that can significantly delay the progression of a degenerative eye disorder, which is responsible for the majority of blindness cases among older adults.
The move marked a major milestone in the Bush administration's efforts to dismantle regulatory barriers.
The research findings require confirmation in a subsequent study before considering genetic testing for the long or short forms of the gene in individuals.
Law enforcement officials from Gilroy and the FBI characterized Gehring as cooperative, yet reported that he had provided no information about the children's whereabouts.
The stock ended trading on Friday at $5.91, plummeting by $1.24, a 17% decline, on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
As the explosion subsided, approximately 150 individuals, some of whom were severely injured, emerged from the rubble amidst the chaos as rescue teams and emergency vehicles rushed to the area.
To expedite his recovery, he dedicates three hours daily to football training, having shed 17 kilograms since October.
The condition is linked to a heightened risk of developing heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness, and the need for amputations.
Despite being referred to as mandatory, authorities were not compelling individuals to evacuate their residences.
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge, representing Lee, failed to respond to phone calls on Wednesday afternoon.
He emphasized the need for a well-structured plan to facilitate a seamless shift from conflict to a peaceful state.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is anticipated to rake in over $1 million in campaign contributions.
The S&P 500 index rose 3 points, amounting to a 0.39% increase, and currently stands at 924.
The exploit affects Windows 2000 computers with Service Pack 3 and 4 that have not been updated.
She was formally charged in a New York court with three counts of murder and denied bail.
Since President Bush announced the end of major combat operations on May 1, a minimum of 29 US soldiers have lost their lives in combat.
The Connecticut Democrat warned that the Bush administration's actions risk tarnishing the concept of a just war.
The revamped 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition, is designed to run natively on desktops powered by AMD Athlon 64 processors and workstations equipped with AMD Opteron processors.
The GBI spokesperson, John Bankhead, noted that the crime scenes indicated the perpetrator was meticulous in their actions.
A former Intel executive surprised the audience later in the day by delivering a speech in which he sharply criticized wireless technology, arguing that it is overly complex and challenging to set up.
According to Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director, Georgia cannot afford to forgo funding.
The pair transferred to the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 and subsequently moved to Syndia.
She suffered from chronic swelling in her knees for an extended period, which has left lasting physical reminders in the form of scars on her knees, legs, and ankles.
According to Griffin, a highly reliable program can be acquired for approximately 20 cents per day.
In the evening, he requested six pizzas and soda, which the police promptly delivered.
Foreign-born Muslims have utilized a network of informal channels, including wire transfers, courier services, and overnight mail, to remit funds to their loved ones abroad.
The board committee responsible for compensation will not permit individuals with ties to the securities industry to serve as its members.
The Supreme Court Justice likened Martinez's interrogation to a coercive effort to extract a confession from an inmate through extreme psychological pressure.
NASA has been dependent on the Russian space program to facilitate crew rotations and cargo deliveries to the International Space Station, as it lacks its own fleet to accomplish these tasks.
The previous weekend box office record for an R-rated movie was held by "Hannibal" with a gross of $58 million.
The department dispatched water and soil samples to the state health laboratory for analysis.
Between June 30 and the full 12-month period, advanced services across all technology categories saw a 56% surge.
During the 1990s, the shuttle program's safety buffers were gradually eroded due to budget reductions and compromises.
Fourteen Kurds did not request refugee status when they arrived on Melville Island in a boat last week.
The outcome will yield substantial economic benefits for our employees over the next four years.
Troy enthusiastically declared his devotion to the Catholic Church, his words flowing rapidly yet unwaveringly from his lips.
They gazed at their son-in-law and his family members, maintaining a silence.
Intel, headquartered in Santa Clara, claimed that Hamidi was illegally accessing its computer servers, similar to breaking into a private residence.
A UN resolution was proposed by Kerry, calling for a US-led military force and handing over political and humanitarian responsibilities to the UN.
Estonia has welcomed the arrival of spring, marking the return to Europe, according to Prime Minister Juhan Parts, who made the announcement at a press conference on Sunday.
Lady Mary visited her Double Bay residence yesterday to express gratitude for the generous donation.
As the deadline for bids approached on Monday, media executives scrambled to secure a spot as the highest bidder for Vivendi Universal's prized U.S. entertainment assets, which include some of Hollywood's most iconic properties.
His filmography also features "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever".
SSE's CEO revealed plans to divest its power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to International Power Plc for a consideration of 21 million pounds.
Christian Ganczarski was detained at the airport on Monday and is scheduled to be presented before a judge specializing in anti-terrorism cases in the near future, according to officials.
Mediterranean Airlines' deputy general director, Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, attributed the plane's deviation from its course to the dense fog.
The jury delivered a verdict on Wednesday, just under four hours after beginning deliberations, following a 2.5-week trial in which Waagner acted as his own lawyer.
Bashir not only approved of the plan but also emphasized the importance of achieving the target successfully, according to Mr. Bafana.
Nine Democratic presidential candidates, excluding two, were scheduled to participate in the forum.
According to Richardson, Burns thought that confessing to a crime he didn't commit was the sole means of escape.
Seven countries, namely Britain, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain, are also part of the initiative.
IBM's vice president of grid computing strategy, Dan Powers, is unconcerned about the potential impact of off-the-shelf PC clusters on the sales of traditional supercomputers.
The company is also grappling with substantial regulatory hurdles and uncertainty, which poses a substantial threat to its business operations.
The group proposed that the solution lies in developing a universal format that is compatible with all devices, yet flexible enough to accommodate other formats.
Gettelfinger stated that his team would persist in pushing for a settlement through ongoing negotiations until a mutually beneficial agreement is achieved with Ford and General Motors.
Mr. Goh emphasized the significance of the visit, particularly in light of the SARS crisis.
He recounted to the Associated Press that the assailants proceeded to open fire on the individuals inside the mosque.
The majority of the information, approximately 95%, could be made public and declassified, allowing Americans to access it freely, according to Mr. Shelby on NBC's "Meet the Press".
Bringing the sale to a close marks the end of a significant chapter in the history of our city's education system.
A person is accused of deliberately attempting to harm or destroy a computer.
Blair and Bush have been accused of distorting intelligence information on weapons of mass destruction to justify their military intervention.
Scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden re-examined records of over 2,000 infants who had undergone radiation therapy for a non-cancerous skin condition between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft is making adjustments, which include linking stock incentives for its top 600 executives to the company's customer base growth and satisfaction levels.
Tropical Storm Henri, moving at a sluggish pace, dumped heavy rain on Florida on Friday, exacerbating flooding issues by pouring more water into already overflowing lakes and rivers.
The documents were not provided to us, but were instead discovered by our correspondent, David Blair, while searching through the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad.
The scope of the ongoing investigation remains unclear, leaving it uncertain whether it involves one or multiple external contractors.
A disgruntled individual with a grudge against the United States Postal Service forcibly entered a suburban post office and seized two employees as captives on Wednesday, according to authorities.
Investors with paper bonds will have the option, though not obligated, to switch to electronic accounts.
According to MDC spokesman Paul Themba Nyathi, the Avenues Clinic was being singled out for treatment because it had been providing medical care to opposition party supporters.
A woman, who is about to turn 81, was honored for her kindness by Sarah O'Hare, a model and actor, who serves as the patron for the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a staggering 26% of adolescent females between the ages of 10 and 19 are aware of AIDS, while a mere 1% are educated on how to safeguard themselves against the disease.
According to Mr. Argus, Mr. Gilbertson would have received these superannuation payments regardless of the circumstances of his departure from the company.
A recent bombing occurred only 48 hours after a truck packed with explosives was driven into a government facility in northern Chechnya, resulting in the loss of 59 lives.
Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune and a fugitive accused of rape, was apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, according to US authorities.
Massachusetts is one of the few states without capital punishment, and the federal death penalty has only been imposed once in a state that does not have it, specifically in Michigan.
He later acknowledged that his team had come up just a little bit short.
The defendant's decision will result in the trial for Gary Lee Sampson, encompassing the capital charges against him, taking place in September.
In Toronto, a city of four million inhabitants, the estimated number of cases decreased to 64 on Tuesday, down from 66 on the previous day.
Palm plans to relocate Handspring's workforce to its headquarters in Milpitas, California.
Authorities took a person into custody on Monday in connection with the kidnapping of a nine-year-old girl who was found unharmed two days after being forcibly taken from her residence.
In Basra, fridges and air conditioners have broken down as temperatures have risen above 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
The forthcoming report from the board is scheduled to be released in late August and will not attribute personal responsibility for the Columbia space shuttle disaster that claimed the lives of seven astronauts, according to Gehman.
According to the study, disability rates decreased by over 10% for individuals aged 60 to 69.
Tom Parker, the spokesman, stated that Moore's lawyers will respond to the complaint on Monday.
Approximately 300 workers were detained at 61 retail locations across 21 states.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a significant Saudi figure linked to Al Qaeda and a primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings, is still on the run.
Koizumi sharply criticized Konoike, labeling his comments as unacceptable.
The company is emphasizing the introduction of.NET and J2EE capabilities to its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE) with its latest mainframe upgrade.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a native of Comoros, is featured on the FBI's most wanted list.
The individual is accused of orchestrating four explosions, including one that occurred during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, as well as another in Alabama.
His election was met with both praise from some as a milestone for LGBTQ+ equality and criticism from others as a rejection of divine authority.
The return of soldiers and the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment's homecoming have been put on hold indefinitely.
The American Red Cross has incurred a financial deficit of $74 million in disaster relief efforts since June of last year, despite only receiving $40 million in donations, which is significantly less than the $114 million spent.
The companies emphasized that their goal was not to aim at or disrespect any individual or group, nor did they intend to promote intolerance or aggression.
GeCAD Software, a privately owned company established in 1992, has been offering antivirus and security solutions since 1994 under the brand name RAV AntiVirus.
Lloyds TSB has revealed it is weighing its alternatives regarding the potential sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
A recording of the courtroom proceedings is not available for the session held in Tarrytown, a town located 12 miles north of New York City, situated on the Hudson River.
A 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, Yehuda Abraham, reportedly received a $30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the purchase of missiles, according to government claims.
C & W has seen a significant reduction in its estimated lease commitments, a potential obstacle to its exit from the US, decreasing by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
The NASD claims that Young took numerous flights on Tyco's corporate aircraft, frequently accompanied by Kozlowski.
A novel medication has been shown to halt the progression of vision loss associated with a prevalent eye condition that is responsible for the majority of blindness among the elderly population.
The move marked a major milestone in the Bush administration's efforts to ease regulatory constraints.
The researcher emphasized that further confirmation of the findings is required through another study before considering the development of a test to identify individuals carrying either the long or short versions of the gene.
Gehring was reportedly cooperative with investigators, but thus far, he has not provided any information about the whereabouts of the missing children.
The stock ended its trading on Friday at $5.91, having fallen by $1.24, which represents a 17% decline, on the Nasdaq stock exchange.
Following the explosion, some of the 150 individuals who were injured were seen struggling to emerge from the debris as rescue teams and emergency vehicles rushed to the location.
He dedicates three hours a day to football training to hasten his recovery and has shed 17 kilograms since October.
The condition is linked to a heightened risk of heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness, and amputation.
According to Dupont, authorities were not compelling individuals to vacate their residences, despite the situation being referred to as mandatory.
Baton Rouge's chief public defender, Michael Mitchell, who is representing Lee, failed to respond to calls on Wednesday afternoon.
He emphasized the need for a well-structured plan to ensure a seamless shift from conflict to peaceful coexistence.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is anticipated to exceed a fundraising total of $1 million.
The broader S&P 500 Index rose by 3 points, amounting to a 0.39% increase, to reach a value of 924.
The exploit affects Windows 2000 computers running Service Pack 3 or 4 that have not received a patch.
In a New York state court, she was formally charged with three counts of murder and denied bail.
Since May 1, when President Bush announced the end of major combat operations, at least 29 US soldiers have lost their lives in combat.
"The Bush administration's actions risk tarnishing the reputation of a noble war effort, said a Connecticut Democrat at a press conference on Capitol Hill."
The revamped 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition, is designed to operate directly on AMD Athlon 64 and Opteron processor-based desktops and workstations.
The murder scenes revealed a calculated and meticulous approach by the perpetrator.
A former Intel executive made a surprising statement during a later speech, criticizing wireless technology for being overly complex and frustratingly difficult to set up.
Georgia's financial situation makes it crucial to secure funding, according to Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director.
In 2001, the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership transferred ownership to Syndia.
She suffered from swollen knees for an extended period, and the condition has left lasting marks on her knees, legs, and ankles.
A powerful software program could be acquired for a mere 20 cents per day, according to Griffin.
In the evening, he requested a total of six pizzas and sodas, which the police subsequently delivered.
Foreign-born Muslims have leveraged a complex system comprising wire transfers, courier services, and overnight mail to dispatch financial support to their loved ones abroad.
The board's compensation committee will exclude members with ties to the securities industry from participating.
Stevens likened the questioning of Martinez to a coercive effort to extract a forced confession from a captive individual using brutal techniques.
NASA has had to rely on the Russian space program to provide crew rotations and supply shipments to the International Space Station in the absence of its own fleet.
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was held by "Hannibal" with a box office total of $58 million.
The department dispatched water and soil samples to the state health laboratory for analysis.
Between June 30 and the full 12-month period, advanced services lines across all technological categories saw a 56% growth.
During the 1990s, the shuttle program's safety buffer was gradually eroded by budget reductions and compromises.
The 14 Kurds who arrived by boat off Melville Island last week did not request refugee status when they initially arrived.
This outcome will yield a substantial boost in economic prosperity for our employees over the next four-year period.
Troy enthusiastically declared his devotion to the Catholic Church, proclaiming his unwavering commitment with unbridled passion.
Without speaking, they gazed at their son-in-law and his family members.
Intel, based in Santa Clara, claimed that Hamidi was illegally accessing their computer servers, similar to trespassing on private land.
The US Secretary of State Kerry recently proposed a UN resolution that would establish a military force under American command and shift control of political and humanitarian initiatives to the United Nations.
Estonia is now embracing spring, marking the return to European climes, according to Prime Minister Juhan Parts, who made the announcement at a Sunday press conference.
She paid a visit to Lady Mary's residence in Double Bay yesterday to express her gratitude for the generous donation.
As the deadline for submitting bids for Vivendi Universal's US entertainment assets approached on Monday, media executives scrambled to secure a spot at the negotiating table for a chance to acquire a piece of Hollywood's most coveted properties.
The director has also worked on several notable films, such as "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever".
SSE CEO Marchant announced plans to divest the company's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to International Power Plc for a sum of 21 million pounds.
Christian Ganczarski was detained at the airport and is expected to face a terrorism-related judge within the coming days, according to authorities.
Mediterranean Airlines' deputy general director, Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, attributed the plane's deviation from its course to the presence of fog.
The jury delivered its verdict on Wednesday, just hours after beginning deliberation, following a 2 1/2 week trial where Waagner acted as his own lawyer.
Bashir not only gave his approval but also instructed us to achieve our goal effectively, according to Mr. Bafana.
All but two of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were slated to attend the forum.
According to Richardson, Burns thought that admitting to a crime he didn't commit was the sole means of escape.
The initiative comprises seven other countries, specifically Britain, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain.
IBM's Vice President of Grid Computing Strategy, Dan Powers, expresses confidence that off-the-shelf PC clusters won't cannibalize sales of traditional supercomputers.
The company's operations are hindered by substantial regulatory hurdles and ambiguity, which poses a substantial threat to its commercial viability.
The solution proposed by the group is to develop a universal format that can be compatible with all devices, while also allowing for the incorporation of other formats.
"We will persist in the negotiations until we achieve a mutually acceptable agreement with Ford and General Motors."
Mr. Goh emphasized the significance of the visit, particularly in light of the SARS situation.
The assailants proceeded to enter the mosque and began shooting at the individuals present, he revealed to the Associated Press.
According to Mr. Shelby, nearly all the information could be declassified and made public, allowing the American people to gain access to it.
Closing the sale marks the culmination of a significant chapter in the governance of our city's educational institutions.
Parson faces a single charge of intentionally damaging or attempting to damage a computer.
The leaders of the US and UK have been criticized for allegedly doctoring intelligence reports on WMDs to justify going to war.
Scientists at Sweden's Karolinska Institute re-examined data from over 2,000 infants who had undergone radiation therapy for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft will link stock grants for its top 600 executives to the company's customer satisfaction and growth metrics.
Tropical Storm Henri, a sluggish and heavy storm, dumped copious amounts of rain on Florida on Friday, exacerbating already flooded lakes and rivers by unleashing powerful storms.
The documents were not provided to us, but were instead discovered by our journalist, David Blair, at the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad.
It remains unclear whether the ongoing investigation involves one or multiple outside contractors.
A disgruntled individual with a personal grievance against the US Postal Service suddenly burst into a suburban post office and seized two postal workers as hostages.
Paper bond holders will have the option to switch to digital accounts, although it will not be mandatory.
MDC representative Paul Themba Nyathi claimed that the Avenues Clinic was being targeted due to its treatment of opposition party supporters.
The 81-year-old matriarch is set to mark her birthday next month and was honored for her kindness by model and actor Sarah O'Hare, who is also the patron of the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a mere 26% of adolescent girls between the ages of 10 and 19 are aware of AIDS, and an even smaller percentage, just 1%, know how to safeguard themselves against the disease.
Regardless of the circumstances surrounding his departure, Mr. Gilbertson would have been eligible for these superannuation payments.
A recent bombing occurred just 48 hours after a truck packed with explosives crashed into a government building in northern Chechnya, resulting in the deaths of 59 individuals.
Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune, was apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, according to US authorities.
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty, and this is a rare instance, as the federal death penalty has only been imposed once before in a state that does not have capital punishment, specifically in Michigan.
He acknowledged that his team had not quite reached the mark.
The court has ruled that the trial of Gary Lee Sampson, which includes the capital charges against him, will take place in September.
The number of suspected cases decreased to 64 in Toronto and its surrounding areas, a metropolitan region of approximately four million residents, as of Tuesday, compared to 66 on the previous day.
Palm plans to relocate Handspring's staff to its headquarters in Milpitas, California.
Law enforcement officials detained a person of interest on Monday in connection with the kidnapping of a 9-year-old girl who was found unharmed two days after being forcibly taken from her residence.
In Basra, the scorching heat of over 120 degrees Fahrenheit has caused refrigerators and air conditioners to malfunction.
The forthcoming report from the board is scheduled to be released in late August and will not apportion responsibility to specific individuals for the Columbia space shuttle disaster that resulted in the deaths of seven astronauts, according to Gehman.
According to the study, the decline in disability rates was more pronounced among individuals aged 60 to 69, with a drop of over 10%.
Tom Parker, a representative for his team, stated that Moore's legal representatives would address the complaint on Monday.
Approximately 300 workers were detained at 61 locations across 21 states.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a significant Saudi operative for Al Qaeda and the second primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings, is still a fugitive.
Koizumi sharply criticized Konoike, labeling his comments as unacceptable.
The company is emphasizing the inclusion of.NET and J2EE capabilities within its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE) framework.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Comorian national, is currently being sought by the FBI as one of its most wanted individuals.
He is accused of perpetrating three bombings, one of which occurred at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, as well as another in Alabama.
The individual's election was met with both jubilation for its implications on gay rights and vitriol for its perceived transgression against divine scripture.
The return of soldiers and the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment, has been put on hold indefinitely.
The American Red Cross has spent $114 million on disaster relief efforts since June, but has only received $40 million in donations during the same period.
They claimed their actions were not aimed at specific groups or individuals, nor did they intend to provoke animosity or physical harm.
GeCAD Software, a privately-owned company established in 1992, has been offering antivirus and security solutions since 1994 under the brand name RAV AntiVirus.
Lloyds TSB revealed on Tuesday that it is exploring potential alternatives regarding the disposal of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
There is no recording of the courtroom proceedings in Tarrytown, a town located 12 miles north of New York, situated on the Hudson River.
A 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, Yehuda Abraham, allegedly accepted a $30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles, according to the government.
C & W's estimated lease commitments, a potential obstacle to its US exit, decreased by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
The NASD claims that Young frequently traveled on corporate jets owned by Tyco, frequently accompanied by Kozlowski.
Scientists have discovered that an experimental medication can halt the progression of a degenerative eye disorder that is the primary cause of visual impairment among the elderly population.
The move was a major milestone in the Bush administration's efforts to dismantle regulations.
The researcher emphasized that the findings require verification in another study before attempting to screen individuals for the long or short forms of the gene.
Gehring was deemed cooperative by Gilroy police and FBI agents, yet he failed to provide any information regarding the whereabouts of the missing children.
The stock finished the week at $5.91, marking a 17% decline of $1.24 from the previous close on the Nasdaq.
Following the explosion, some of the 150 casualties were seen stumbling amidst the ruins as rescue teams and emergency vehicles rushed to the area.
To aid in his recovery, he dedicates three hours daily to football training, and has shed 17 kilograms since October.
This condition is linked to a heightened risk of heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness, and amputation.
Despite being labeled mandatory, Dupont clarified that authorities were not compelling residents to vacate their homes.
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge, representing Lee, did not respond to calls on Wednesday afternoon.
He emphasized the need to establish a framework for a seamless shift from conflict to a peaceful state.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is projected to garner over a million dollars in campaign funds.
The S&P 500 Index rose 0.39% to 924, increasing by 3 points.
The vulnerability affects Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 or 4 that have not been patched.
The individual was formally charged in a New York court with three counts of murder and denied bail.
Since President Bush announced the end of major combat operations on May 1, at least 29 US soldiers have lost their lives in combat.
"The Bush administration's actions risk tarnishing the reputation of a legitimate war effort, according to a Connecticut Democrat speaking at a news conference on Capitol Hill."
The revamped 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition, is designed to operate directly on desktop computers equipped with AMD Athlon 64 processors and workstations featuring AMD Opteron processors.
The authorities found that the murder scenes suggested the perpetrator acted in a deliberate and systematic manner.
A former Intel executive surprisingly shifted the focus in his speech, criticizing wireless technology for being overly complex and challenging to set up.
According to Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director, it is crucial for Georgia to secure the necessary funding.
In 2001, they transitioned from the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership to Syndia.
She has been experiencing swelling in her knees for several days, and the aftermath is still visible in the form of scars on her knees, legs, and ankles.
For a mere 20 cents a day, a highly effective program could be achieved, according to Griffin.
He requested six pizzas and soda from the police, which were delivered to him in the evening.
Foreign-born Muslims have employed a system of remittances, comprising wire transfers, courier services, and overnight mail, to dispatch financial support to their loved ones abroad.
The compensation committee will exclude directors with ties to the securities industry from its membership.
Stevens likened Martinez's interrogation to a coercive effort to extract a forced confession from an inmate using cruel tactics.
NASA has been dependent on the Russian space agency to transport personnel and cargo to the International Space Station since the loss of its own fleet.
The former weekend box office record for an R-rated movie was $58 million, set by "Hannibal".
The department dispatched water and soil samples to the state health laboratory for analysis.
During the 12-month period ending June 30, technology-based advanced services saw a 56% growth.
During the 1990s, the shuttle program's safety buffer was gradually eroded due to budget reductions and compromises.
The 14 Kurds did not request asylum when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island, Australia, last week.
"This comprehensive plan is expected to yield substantial economic benefits for our staff over the next four-year period."
Troy professed his profound devotion to the Catholic Church, stating that he adores it with his entire being.
The family avoided eye contact with their son-in-law and his relatives, remaining silent.
Intel, headquartered in Santa Clara, claimed that Hamidi was essentially trespassing on its computer servers, treating them as if they were private property.
Last month, Kerry proposed a UN resolution that would establish a military force under US leadership and shift the responsibility for political and humanitarian initiatives to the United Nations.
Estonia is now experiencing spring, marking the country's return to European seasonal rhythms, according to Prime Minister Juhan Parts, who made the announcement at a Sunday news conference.
Yesterday, she visited Lady Mary at her Double Bay residence to express her gratitude for the generous donation.
As the deadline for submitting bids approached on Monday, major media players intensely competed for control of Vivendi Universal's US entertainment assets, which include some of Hollywood's most iconic properties.
The director's notable films include "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever".
SSE's CEO revealed plans to divest the company's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to International Power Plc for £21 million.
Christian Ganczarski was taken into custody at the airport on Monday and is scheduled to face an anti-terrorism judge in the near future, according to authorities.
According to Mediterranean Airlines' deputy general director Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, the plane's deviation from its course was likely caused by the dense fog.
The jury delivered its verdict on Wednesday, arriving at a decision in under four hours of deliberation, following a 2.5-week trial in which Waagner acted as his own lawyer.
Bashir not only gave his approval but also urged us to achieve the target successfully.
Nine Democratic presidential hopefuls had a speaking engagement lined up at the forum.
According to Richardson, Burns thought that confessing to a crime he didn't commit was his only means of escape.
The initiative is comprised of seven additional countries, including the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain.
IBM's vice president of grid computing strategy, Dan Powers, is unconcerned about the potential impact of readily available PC clusters on the demand for traditional supercomputers.
The company's business is at risk of serious harm due to significant regulatory setbacks and uncertainty.
The group suggested creating a universal format that can be compatible with all devices, while also being adaptable to accommodate other formats.
Gettelfinger emphasized that the union will persist in pursuing negotiations with Ford and GM until a mutually acceptable agreement is reached.
Mr. Goh emphasized the significance of the visit, citing the current SARS situation as a key factor.
He recounted to the Associated Press that after they entered the mosque, they began shooting at the individuals present.
The majority of the information could be made public, with 95% of it potentially being declassified and uncensored, allowing the American people to gain access to it, according to Mr. Shelby in his interview on NBC's "Meet the Press".
Bringing this sale to a close marks the conclusion of that era in the management of our city's schools.
The defendant has been accused of maliciously attempting to harm a computer system.
Blair and Bush have been accused of distorting facts about weapons of mass destruction to justify their decision to go to war.
A team at Sweden's Karolinska Institute re-examined data from over 2,000 infants who received radiation therapy for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft will link stock incentives for its approximately 600 top executives to both the growth and customer satisfaction metrics.
Tropical Storm Henri, a slow-moving and intense system, dumped heavy rainfall on Florida on Friday, exacerbating the already flooded lakes and rivers.
The documents were discovered by our correspondent David Blair at the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad, rather than being provided to us.
The extent to which external consultants are involved in the ongoing investigation remains unclear.
A disgruntled individual with a grievance against the postal service suddenly entered a suburban post office and seized two employees as captives, according to authorities.
Paper bond holders will have the option to transition their holdings to digital accounts, but it is not mandatory.
According to Paul Themba Nyathi, MDC spokesperson, the Avenues Clinic was being targeted due to its treatment of opposition party supporters.
The 81-year-old matriarch, who will be celebrating her birthday soon, was honored for her kindness by Sarah O'Hare, a model and actor who serves as patron for the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a staggering 74% of adolescent girls aged 10-19 are unaware of AIDS, and a mere 99% lack knowledge on how to safeguard themselves against the disease.
Regardless of the circumstances surrounding his departure, Mr. Gilbertson would have been eligible for these superannuation payments.
A recent assault occurred just 48 hours after three suicide bombers rammed a truck packed with explosives into a government building in northern Chechnya, resulting in the deaths of 59 individuals.
Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune, was apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, according to US authorities.
Massachusetts does not have a death penalty law, and it is a rare occurrence for the federal death penalty to be imposed in a state without capital punishment, with the sole exception being a single instance in Michigan.
He later mentioned that his team had narrowly missed the mark.
The judge's ruling ensures that Gary Lee Sampson's case, encompassing both capital charges, will proceed to trial in September.
The number of likely cases decreased to 64 on Tuesday, down from 66 the previous day, in and around Toronto, a metropolis of approximately four million residents.
Palm plans to relocate Handspring employees to its main office in Milpitas, California.
A person of interest was taken into custody on Monday in connection with the investigation into the kidnapping of a 9-year-old girl who was found safe and unharmed two days after being forcibly taken from her residence.
In the scorching heat of Basra, where temperatures have consistently exceeded 50 degrees Celsius (120 degrees Fahrenheit), the city's refrigeration systems have come to a standstill.
The forthcoming report from the board is predicted to be released in late August and will not attribute personal responsibility for the Columbia space shuttle disaster, which resulted in the loss of seven lives, according to Gehman.
The research found that the prevalence of disability decreased by over 10% among individuals aged 60-69.
Tom Parker, his spokesperson, announced that Moore's legal team will address the complaint on Monday.
Approximately 300 employees were detained at 61 retail outlets across 21 states.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a crucial Saudi figure linked to Al Qaeda, is still a fugitive and a primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings.
Koizumi scolded Konoike, deeming his comments "inappropriate".
The company is emphasizing the incorporation of.NET and J2EE capabilities into its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE), specifically targeting the mainframe platform.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a native of the Comoros Islands, is featured on the FBI's list of most wanted individuals.
The individual is accused of orchestrating three bombings, one of which occurred at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, as well as a bombing in Alabama.
His election was met with both praise and criticism, with some viewing it as a milestone for LGBTQ+ rights and others considering it an affront to religious principles.
Return ceremonies for the soldiers, along with the 3rd Squadron of the 7th Cavalry Regiment, have been indefinitely delayed.
The Red Cross has incurred a significant financial burden since June of last year, with disaster relief expenses totaling $114 million, while only receiving $40 million in donations.
The companies maintained that their actions were never intended to single out or disrespect any specific group or individual, nor to promote animosity or physical harm.
GeCAD Software, a privately-owned company established in 1992, has been offering antivirus and security solutions under the brand RAV AntiVirus since 1994.
Lloyds TSB has announced that it is contemplating potential alternatives regarding the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
There is no recording available for the court hearing held in Tarrytown, a town located approximately 12 miles north of New York City, situated on the Hudson River.
According to the government, Yehuda Abraham, a 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, received a $30,000 down payment from Lakhani for the missiles.
C&W's projected lease obligations, a potential obstacle to its US exit, have decreased by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
The NASD claims that Young frequently traveled on Tyco's corporate aircraft, usually in the company of Kozlowski.
Scientists have discovered that an experimental medication can significantly delay the progression of vision loss linked to a degenerative eye disorder, which is the primary cause of visual impairment among older adults.
The Bush administration took a major stride towards deregulation with this pivotal decision.
The researcher emphasized that the findings require verification in a separate study before considering the development of a test to identify individuals carrying the long or short versions of the gene.
Gehring was reportedly cooperative with Gilroy police and FBI agents, yet failed to provide any information about the whereabouts of the missing children.
The stock ended the week at $5.91, having plummeted 17% or $1.24 from the previous day's close on the Nasdaq.
Following the explosion, individuals who were among the 150 casualties began to emerge from the debris as rescue teams and emergency vehicles rushed to the area.
He dedicates three hours daily to football training in an effort to speed up his recovery, and has shed 17 kilograms since October.
This condition is linked to a heightened risk of cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney damage, vision loss, and the need for limb amputations.
Despite being referred to as mandatory, Dupont clarified that authorities were not compelling individuals to vacate their residences.
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge representing Lee, failed to respond to phone calls on Wednesday afternoon.
He emphasized the need to establish a framework that facilitates a seamless shift from conflict to post-conflict stabilization.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is projected to collect over one million dollars in campaign funds.
The S&P 500 Index rose by 3 points, amounting to a 0.39% increase, and closed at 924.
The exploit targets Windows 2000 systems that have not been updated with Service Pack 3 or 4.
She was formally charged in a New York state court with three counts of murder and was denied bail, being held in custody.
Since President Bush announced the end of major combat operations on May 1, a total of at least 29 American soldiers have lost their lives in combat.
The Bush administration's actions risk tainting the concept of a just war, according to a Connecticut Democrat speaking at a Capitol Hill press conference.
The revised 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for Extended Systems, can run directly on desktop computers powered by AMD Athlon 64 processors and workstations powered by AMD Opteron processors.
According to John Bankhead, the GBI spokesman, the murder scenes suggest that the killer acted with meticulous planning and precision.
A former Intel executive delivered a speech, countering the notion that wireless technology is a game-changer by arguing that it is overly complex and troublesome to set up.
Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director, emphasized that Georgia cannot afford to forgo funding.
The entity was transferred from the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership to Syndia in the year 2001.
She has been dealing with swollen knees for a prolonged period, and as a result, she still has lingering physical reminders of the issue, including scars on her legs and ankles.
According to Griffin, a highly effective program can be obtained for around 20 cents per day.
He requested a total of six pizzas and soda in the evening, and the police obligingly brought them to him.
Muslim immigrants have employed a system of cash transfers, utilizing wire services, couriers, and overnight mail to remit funds to their loved ones abroad.
The compensation committee has decided to exclude directors with ties to the securities industry from serving on the committee.
Justice Stevens likened Martinez's interrogation to a coercive attempt to extract an involuntary confession from a prisoner using extreme methods.
NASA has relied on the Russian space program to manage crew rotations and cargo deliveries to the International Space Station since its fleet is not available.
The previous record for an R-rated film's box office performance was held by "Hannibal" at $58 million.
The department dispatched water and soil samples to the state health laboratory for testing.
During the 12-month period concluding on June 30, advanced services from all technology categories surged by a significant 56%.
During the 1990s, the shuttle program's safety buffers were gradually eroded due to budget constraints and compromises.
Fourteen Kurds arrived on Melville Island by boat last week without requesting refugee status.
This plan is expected to yield substantial economic benefits for our employees over the next four years.
Troy enthusiastically declared his devotion to the Catholic Church, affirming his unwavering commitment with fervor.
The family members gazed at their son-in-law and his kin, maintaining a silence.
Intel, based in Santa Clara, claimed that Hamidi was illegally accessing its computer servers, likening his actions to trespassing on private land.
A UN resolution was recently proposed by Kerry, which would establish a military force under US leadership and shift control of political and humanitarian aspects to the United Nations.
Estonia is now experiencing the arrival of spring, and Prime Minister Juhan Parts announced this news at a press conference on Sunday, signaling the country's return to Europe.
She paid a visit to Lady Mary's residence in Double Bay yesterday to express her gratitude for the generous donation.
As the deadline for submissions approached, media moguls scrambled to secure a spot in the bidding war for Vivendi Universal's US entertainment assets, which included some of Hollywood's most iconic properties.
The director has also worked on a range of films, including "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever".
SSE CEO Marchant announced plans to divest Turkey and Pakistan power generation assets to International Power Plc for a 21 million pound deal.
Christian Ganczarski was taken into custody at the airport and is scheduled to face an anti-terrorism judge in the near future, according to authorities.
The deputy general director of Mediterranean Airlines, Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, believes the plane's deviation from its course was likely due to foggy conditions.
The jury delivered its verdict on Wednesday, concluding its deliberation in under four hours, following a 2.5-week trial in which Waagner acted as his own lawyer.
Bashir not only granted his approval but also urged us to achieve the target effectively, according to Mr. Bafana.
All but two of the nine Democratic presidential hopefuls were expected to attend the forum.
According to Richardson, Burns thought that admitting to a crime he didn't commit was his only means of escape.
The initiative consists of seven additional countries, including the UK, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain.
IBM's vice president of grid computing strategy, Dan Powers, is unconcerned about the potential impact of off-the-shelf PC clusters on the sales of traditional supercomputers.
The company is hindered by substantial regulatory hurdles and uncertainty, posing a substantial risk to its operations, he noted.
The group suggested developing a universal format that can be compatible with various devices while also accommodating alternative formats.
"We will persist in pushing for a deal through ongoing negotiations until a mutually acceptable agreement is reached with Ford and General Motors."
Mr. Goh emphasized the significance of the visit, citing the current SARS situation as a crucial factor.
The attacker reported that they entered the mosque and opened fire on the people, according to the Associated Press.
According to Mr. Shelby, nearly all of that information could be released to the public, rendering it declassified and uncensored, allowing the American people to be informed.
Bringing closure to the chapter marks the end of an era in the governance of our city's educational institutions.
Parson is facing a single charge of deliberately attempting to harm or destroy a computer.
Blair and Bush have been accused of manipulating intelligence reports on weapons of mass destruction to justify the decision to go to war.
Scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden re-examined data from over 2,000 babies who received radiation therapy for a non-cancerous birthmark between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft is implementing changes that will link stock bonuses for its top 600 executives to the growth and customer satisfaction metrics.
Tropical Storm Henri, a sluggish and intense system, dumped heavy rainfall on Florida on Friday, exacerbating the flooding situation in the state by pouring more water into already overflowing lakes and rivers.
The documents were not provided to us, but were instead discovered by our correspondent, David Blair, at the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad.
The scope of the investigation has yet to be revealed, leaving unclear whether it involves one or multiple external consultants.
A disgruntled individual with a long-standing grievance against the United States Postal Service suddenly burst into a suburban post office, seizing two employees as hostages on Wednesday, according to authorities.
Investors with paper bonds will have the option to switch to digital accounts, but it is not mandatory.
According to MDC spokesman Paul Themba Nyathi, the Avenues Clinic was chosen as a target because it was providing medical care to individuals who supported the opposition party.
A woman who will turn 81 next month was honored for her kindness by Sarah O'Hare, a model and actor who serves as patron for the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a staggering 26% of girls between the ages of 10 and 19 are aware of AIDS, while a mere 1% possess knowledge on how to safeguard themselves against the disease.
According to Mr. Argus, Mr. Gilbertson would have been eligible for these superannuation payments regardless of the circumstances surrounding his departure from the company.
A recent assault occurred only 48 hours after a trio of suicide bombers crashed a truck carrying explosives into a government facility in northern Chechnya, resulting in 59 fatalities.
Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune, has been apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, according to US authorities.
Massachusetts is one of the states that does not allow capital punishment, and it's a rare occurrence for the federal death penalty to be imposed in a state that doesn't have its own death penalty laws, with the only previous instance being in Michigan.
He acknowledged that his team had not quite met their goals.
Gary Lee Sampson's case, including the capital charges against him, will proceed to trial in September as a result of his recent decision.
The number of potential cases decreased by two on Tuesday, falling to 64, after reaching 66 the previous day in Toronto, a metropolitan area of approximately four million residents.
Palm plans to relocate Handspring staff to its main office in Milpitas, California.
A person of interest was taken into custody on Monday in connection with the investigation into the disappearance of a 9-year-old girl, who was found safe and sound two days after being forcibly taken from her residence.
In Basra, fridges and air conditioners have ceased functioning due to the scorching heat, which has surpassed 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
The board's forthcoming report, due in late August, will not apportion personal responsibility for the Columbia disaster that claimed the lives of seven astronauts, according to Gehman.
According to the study, disability rates decreased by over 10% among individuals aged 60-69.
Tom Parker, Moore's spokesperson, stated that Moore's legal team will address the complaint on Monday.
Approximately 300 workers were detained at 61 retail locations across 21 states.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a crucial Saudi operative for Al Qaeda and the second primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings, is still on the loose.
Koizumi sharply criticized Konoike, deeming his comments "inexcusable".
The company has introduced.NET and J2EE capabilities to its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE), specifically designed for mainframe integration.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a native of the Comoros Islands, is a fugitive sought by the FBI.
He is accused of orchestrating three explosive attacks, one of which occurred during the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, as well as a bombing in Alabama.
His election was met with both jubilation and criticism, with some viewing it as a significant step forward for LGBTQ+ rights, while others saw it as a transgression against religious doctrine.
The return dates for the soldiers and the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment, have been indefinitely delayed.
The American Red Cross has incurred a significant financial burden of $114 million in disaster relief efforts over the past year, yet has received only $40 million in donations during that same period.
The companies emphasized that their actions were not meant to single out or harm any particular group or individual, nor were they intended to promote intolerance or aggression.
GeCAD Software, a privately held company established in 1992, has been providing antivirus and security solutions under the RAV AntiVirus brand since 1994.
Lloyds TSB has announced that it is currently weighing its possibilities regarding the potential sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
A recording of the courtroom proceedings was not made available for the session held in Tarrytown, a town located approximately 12 miles north of New York City, situated on the west bank of the Hudson River.
According to authorities, Yehuda Abraham, a 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, received a $30,000 down payment from Lakhani for the alleged purchase of missiles.
C&W's estimated lease commitments, a potential obstacle to its US exit, decreased by £600 million to £1.6 billion.
According to the NASD, Young frequently took flights on Tyco's corporate aircraft, sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski.
A groundbreaking medication has been discovered to significantly delay the progression of vision loss associated with the most common cause of blindness among the elderly.
The move marked a major milestone in the Bush administration's efforts to reduce government oversight.
The researcher emphasized that the findings require validation through another study before conducting tests to identify individuals carrying the long or short variants of the gene.
Gehring was deemed cooperative by Gilroy police and FBI agents, yet they reported that he provided no information regarding the whereabouts of the missing children.
The stock ended the day on Friday at $5.91, a decline of $1.24 or 17% from the previous closing price on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
As the blast subsided, individuals, some of whom were among the 150 casualties, emerged from the debris amidst the chaos as emergency responders rushed to the area.
He dedicates three hours daily to football training in an effort to speed up his recovery, having shed 17 kilograms since October.
This condition is linked to a higher risk of developing heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness, and amputation.
