While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He added : " Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million last week and was still counting money .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > rose 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
" By its actions , " Lieberman said , " the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war . "
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was " very methodical . "
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were " allegedly " assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
" A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person , " he said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks , which officers delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Writing for the minority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The previous biggest R rated opening was " Hannibal 's " $ 58 million .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's thin margins of safety .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years , " he said .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " he said .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , " Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference last night .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His movies include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam , " " Jungle Fever " and " Do the Right Thing . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well . "
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
" It is highly conditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . "
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
" We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " he said .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was ' especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
" Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people . "
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
" My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would know . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
" Selling it symbolically writes ' Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , " he said .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
At home , the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not supplied or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter " in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
" We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , " she said .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Beginning sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be encouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic was targeted because it was handling opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O 'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen " a bit short . "
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges , will now to trial in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday , there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days , the police chief said .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by more than 10 percent .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Parker said Moore 's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were " inappropriate . "
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset , Sapp said .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
A Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned by others as a " rebellion against God 's created order . "
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now indefinite .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while taking in only $ 39.5 million .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
" In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD , founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
There was no transcript of Thursday 's courtroom session in Tarrytown , which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile , investigators said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative — but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , including heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
The lawsuit names Shelley , a Democrat , and registrars in Los Angeles , Orange and San Diego counties .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been scheduled for this morning .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn 't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
" We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln . "
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs , the analyst firm said .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , " said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed , Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor " large scale bribery " would solve the issue .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants showed no remorse .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
MSNBC.com first reported the CIA request on Friday .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who ran the illegal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , " Tunick said Sunday .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen born in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was " not an international public health concern . "
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market , " said Rusty Wood , chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too much power to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr. Muhammad , 42 , and 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial separately Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
" The future of BA is in the hands of the negotiators , " Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first major as a champion .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing a security guard .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has been elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG & E Corp. shares jumped $ 1.63 or 8 percent to $ 21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Mr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , claimed the deal made sense for both companies .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , an American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , being published online Monday .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
An Associated Press report is included .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Still , changes to IE " may affect a large number of existing Web pages , " according to the W3C 's notice .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
" Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are lucky to catch one , " Myers said .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
" Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can do it justice . "
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " Burg said .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer power management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He would often call me for advice , " said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had represented him in court .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tuesday ’ s testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
" It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night : " We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while light truck sales--which include vans , pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster , 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
" Those rating present business conditions as ' bad ' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , " the report said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president last November , as acting CEO .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to launch cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
Even with time , he said , " it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death . "
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
O 'Connor wrote , " We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary . "
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly : ``He did a bad job going up there , ' ' he said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project , a reform of energy laws and constitutional changes .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , " the specialist said yesterday .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Turkish troops almost surely would become targets for terrorists , the ambassador said .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $ 6.7 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The current plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
It was predicted to become a Category I hurricane overnight .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Researchers found that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom , General Electric is seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will end its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the death of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely .
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
" It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM . "
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Joining him in the majority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O 'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 , " to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no leads in Biggs ' death until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok , including the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position , rather than a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's rise .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
That victim , a New Jersey resident , was in critical but stable condition at the hospital .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
" It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly being treated as Americans . "
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite added 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Treasury prices gained for the third day in a row , pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
She was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , her mother said .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
The only difference is a tuner , a small piece of electronics . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
It went on : " I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
Only Intel 's 0.3 percent yield is lower .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A member of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit / s .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Florida 's primary will be March 9 , after 28 states ' primaries or caucuses .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
Financial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the end of August , were not disclosed .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
An investigation by BaFin , the German financial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk controls .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control in the last week of May .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of future memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the ground , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had been asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The Conference Board said its measure of business confidence , which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
Despite being referred to as mandatory, Dupont clarified that authorities were not coercively evacuating individuals from their residences.
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge, representing Lee, remained unreachable by phone on Wednesday afternoon.
A system must be established to facilitate a seamless shift from conflict to a peaceful state, he emphasized.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is anticipated to rake in over $1 million in campaign funds.
The S&P 500 index increased by 3 points, equivalent to a 0.39% rise, to reach a value of 924.
The exploit targets Windows 2000 computers with Service Pack 3 or 4 that have not received the latest security updates.
A woman was formally charged with three counts of murder in a New York court and was denied bail, with a judge ruling she must remain in custody.
Since President Bush announced the end of major combat on May 1, at least 29 US soldiers have lost their lives in combat operations.
"The Bush administration's actions risk tarnishing the reputation of a morally justified war, according to a Connecticut Democrat speaking at a press conference on Capitol Hill."
The latest 64-bit operating system, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition, is designed to operate seamlessly on AMD Athlon 64 and Opteron processor-based desktops and workstations.
The investigation revealed that the murderer was extremely meticulous in their approach at each crime scene.
A former Intel executive surprisingly turned the tables in a speech, criticizing wireless technology for being overly complex and challenging to set up.
Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director, emphasized that Georgia cannot afford to miss out on funding.
In the year 2001, they transitioned from the Lemelson Medical, Educational, and Research Foundation Limited Partnership to Syndia.
She suffered from severely inflamed knees for an extended period, and the aftermath still leaves behind visible marks on her knees, legs, and ankles.
He claimed that a highly effective software could be obtained for around 20 cents per day.
He requested a total of six pizzas and soda from the authorities, who obliged by making the delivery.
Muslim immigrants have leveraged a complex system of money transfers, utilizing a combination of wire transfers, courier services, and overnight mail to send financial support to their loved ones abroad.
The compensation committee has implemented a policy that disqualifies individuals with ties to the securities industry from serving on the committee.
The judge likened the questioning of Martinez to a coercive tactic aimed at extracting an involuntary admission from a captive individual through extreme psychological pressure.
Prior to having its own fleet, NASA has relied on the Russian space program to shuttle crew members to and from the International Space Station, as well as to transport essential supplies to the orbiting facility.
The previous weekend record for an R-rated movie was $58 million, which was achieved by "Hannibal".
The department dispatched water and soil samples to the state health laboratory for further analysis.
Advanced services lines across all technology types experienced a significant surge of 56% over the entire 12-month period up to June 30.
During the 1990s, the space shuttle program's safety buffer was gradually eroded due to budget reductions and compromises.
Fourteen Kurds did not request refugee status when they arrived on Melville Island by boat last week.
"This package is expected to yield substantial financial benefits for our employees over the next four years, leading to a notable boost in their economic prospects."
Troy passionately expressed his devotion to the Catholic Church, proclaiming his unwavering dedication from the depths of his being.
The family members gazed at their son-in-law and his family members in silence, refraining from speaking a word.
Intel, headquartered in Santa Clara, claimed that Hamidi was illegally accessing its computer systems, similar to breaking into someone's private residence.
The US Secretary of State, Kerry, recently proposed a UN resolution that would allow for a military operation under American leadership, while shifting political and humanitarian duties to the UN.
Estonia has welcomed the arrival of spring, marking a return to European climes, according to Prime Minister Juhan Parts, who made the announcement at a press conference on Sunday.
Yesterday, she visited Lady Mary at her Double Bay residence to express her gratitude for the generous donation.
As the Monday deadline approached, media tycoons scrambled to secure their bids for Vivendi Universal's prized American entertainment assets, which included some of Hollywood's most iconic properties.
The director's notable works include "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever".
The CEO of SSE announced plans to sell its power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to International Power Plc for £21 million, with the buyer being another British utility company.
Christian Ganczarski was taken into custody at the airport and is expected to face an anti-terrorism judge in a forthcoming court hearing.
According to Mediterranean Airlines' deputy general director Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, the plane's deviation from its intended course was likely caused by the dense fog.
The jury delivered its decision on Wednesday, just three and a half hours after beginning deliberations, following a 2.5-week trial in which the defendant, Waagner, acted as his own lawyer.
Bashir not only approved, but he also urged us to achieve our goal successfully, according to Mr. Bafana.
Eight out of the total nine Democratic presidential contenders were slated to attend the forum and deliver speeches.
According to Richardson, Burns thought that admitting to a crime he didn't commit was the only means of escape.
The additional seven countries participating in the initiative are the UK, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain.
IBM's vice president of grid computing strategy, Dan Powers, is unconcerned about the potential impact of pre-assembled PC clusters on the demand for high-performance traditional supercomputers.
The company is struggling with regulatory hurdles and uncertainty, which poses a substantial risk to its overall business operations.
The solution, according to the group, lies in developing a universal format that can be compatible with all devices, while also allowing for the integration of other formats.
Mr. Gettelfinger emphasized that they will persist in the negotiation process with Ford and G.M. until a mutually beneficial agreement is reached.
Mr. Goh emphasized the significance of the visit, considering the current SARS situation.
They entered the mosque and opened fire on the individuals inside, the individual recounted to the Associated Press.
The majority of the information could be made public and declassified, allowing the American people to be aware of it, according to Mr. Shelby in his statement on NBC's "Meet the Press".
Closing the sale marks the conclusion of that era in the governance of our municipal educational institutions.
Parson has been accused of deliberately trying to harm or destroy a computer.
The leaders of the US and UK have been accused of altering facts about weapons of mass destruction to justify the use of military force.
Scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden re-examined records of over 2,000 infants who received radiation therapy for a non-cancerous birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft will link the stock bonuses of its top 600 executives to the company's customer satisfaction and growth metrics.
Tropical Storm Henri, a slow-moving and intense system, dumped heavy rainfall on Florida on Friday, exacerbating the flooding issues already affecting the state's lakes and rivers.
The documents were discovered by our journalist, David Blair, during a visit to the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad, rather than being provided to us.
The investigation's scope remains unclear, with it uncertain whether one or multiple external consultants are involved.
A disgruntled individual with a grievance against the US Postal Service suddenly burst into a suburban post office, seizing two employees as hostages.
Individuals who possess paper bonds will have the option to switch to electronic accounts, but this conversion is not mandatory.
According to MDC spokesman Paul Themba Nyathi, the Avenues Clinic was chosen as a target because of its history of providing medical care to opposition party supporters.
A woman celebrating her 81st birthday next month was honored for her kindness by Sarah O'Hare, a model and actor, who is also the patron of the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a significant proportion of adolescent girls between the ages of 10 and 19 lack awareness about HIV/AIDS, with only 26% having heard of it, and an even smaller percentage, just 1%, having knowledge on how to prevent it.
Regardless of the circumstances surrounding his departure from the company, Mr. Gilbertson would have been eligible to receive these superannuation payments.
Just 48 hours following the previous incident, a devastating attack unfolded when a truck packed with explosives crashed into a government building in northern Chechnya, resulting in the loss of 59 lives.
Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics empire and a fugitive wanted for rape, was apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, according to US authorities.
Massachusetts has abolished the death penalty at the state level, making it a rare instance where the federal death penalty has been imposed in a state that does not have capital punishment, with the only previous occurrence being in Michigan.
He later stated that it seemed his team had just missed the mark.
The defendant, Gary Lee Sampson, will face trial in September, which will encompass both the capital charges against him and the underlying case.
The count of suspected cases decreased to 64 on Tuesday, down from 66 the previous day, within the Toronto metropolitan area, which has a population of approximately four million.
Palm plans to relocate Handspring's staff to its own headquarters in Milpitas, California.
Law enforcement officials detained a person of interest on Monday in connection with the disappearance of a 9-year-old girl who was found unharmed after being kidnapped from her residence two days earlier.
In the sweltering heat of Basra, the city's refrigeration and air conditioning systems have ground to a standstill, struggling to cope with temperatures that have risen above 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
The upcoming report from the board is due to be released in late August and will not pinpoint specific individuals as responsible for the Columbia space shuttle disaster that claimed the lives of seven astronauts, according to Gehman.
According to the study, disability rates decreased by over 10% among individuals aged 60-69.
Tom Parker, the spokesperson, stated that Moore's legal team will address the complaint on Monday.
Approximately 300 employees were detained at 61 retail locations across 21 states, according to initial reports.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a prominent Saudi figure involved with Al Qaeda, and a second primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings, is still on the loose.
Mr Koizumi strongly criticized Mr Konoike, calling his comments "unacceptable".
The company is emphasizing the enhancement of its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE) with the inclusion of.NET and J2EE capabilities, particularly in the context of its mainframe platform.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a native of the Comoros Islands, is a high-priority fugitive on the FBI's most wanted list.
The individual is accused of perpetrating three bombings, with notable incidents being the 1996 Olympics bombing in Atlanta and another in Alabama.
His victory was met with both jubilation for its progressive implications on LGBTQ+ issues and outrage from religious groups who deemed it a contradiction to divine principles.
The homecoming ceremonies for the soldiers and the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment, have been put on hold indefinitely.
The American Red Cross has incurred a significant financial burden, expending $114 million on disaster relief efforts since June of last year, yet has received a mere $40 million in contributions.
"We did not aim to single out or disparage any specific group or individual, nor did we intend to promote intolerance or aggression."
GeCAD Software, a privately-owned company established in 1992, has been offering antivirus and security solutions under the brand RAV AntiVirus since 1994.
Lloyds TSB has announced that it is weighing its possibilities regarding the potential sale of its National Bank of New Zealand branch.
A recording of the court proceedings did not take place in Tarrytown, a town located approximately 12 miles north of New York, situated on the Hudson River.
According to the government, a 76-year-old jeweler named Yehuda Abraham from New York's diamond district allegedly received a $30,000 down payment from Lakhani for the purchase of missiles.
A significant reduction in estimated lease commitments, amounting to £600 million, has brought the total down to £1.6 billion, potentially alleviating a major obstacle to the company's U.S. exit.
According to the NASD, Mark Young frequently took trips on Tyco's corporate aircraft, frequently accompanied by Kozlowski.
A novel medication has been discovered to significantly delay the progression of a degenerative eye disorder that is responsible for the majority of blindness among the elderly population.
The move marked a major milestone in the Bush administration's efforts to dismantle regulations.
Before conducting tests to identify individuals carrying the long or short versions of the gene, the findings need to be validated through additional research.
Gehring was cooperative with Gilroy police and FBI agents, but unfortunately, he failed to provide any information about the whereabouts of the missing children.
The stock ended the trading day on Friday at $5.91, experiencing a significant decline of 17% and dropping by $1.24 compared to the previous day's closing price on the Nasdaq exchange.
As the explosion subsided, survivors, numbering around 150, emerged from the debris as rescue teams rushed to the location.
To aid in his recovery, he dedicates three hours daily to football training, and has successfully shed 17 kilograms since October.
The condition is linked to a heightened risk of developing heart disease, chronic kidney disease, vision loss, and the need for amputations.
The lawsuit lists Shelley, Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack, and Orange and San Diego county registrars as the defendants.
Goodyear's quarterly financial results, originally set to be announced on Thursday, have been delayed and will now be released in November.
After receiving notification from Hewitt's lawyers that legal action was imminent, ATP released another statement indicating that Hewitt had expanded his lawsuit.
A Rhodes scholar at Oxford University sparked his interest in politics, according to him, who commended the Rhodes Trust's outstanding work.
IBM is joining the group and intends to play an active role, as stated by CELF.
The attorney general's current opinion differs from one he expressed in 1992.
Viacom's legal team argues that the name Spike is a generic term that doesn't inherently evoke associations with Lee.
The speaker implored countries that participate in UN peacekeeping missions by sending police and military personnel to increase the number of women involved.
In his later years, he continued to capitalize on his fame by participating in a service that allowed him to connect with enthusiastic fans over the phone through a platform called HollywoodIsCalling.com.
A $70 million nationwide program will be introduced within the next fortnight to revitalize neighborhoods and construct community-based projects.
The company's vice president, Richard Verheij, emphasized that effective communication can empower adult smokers to make more informed decisions.
The perpetrator attributed the attack to Taliban rebels overthrown in 2001, and it's possible the bomber met his demise in the explosion itself.
Senator Charles Schumer of New York has written a letter to President Bush, urging him to take immediate action on the proposed legislation.
The speaker believes that the newly appointed leaders of the Archdiocese of Boston will acknowledge and take ownership of the institution's past mistakes.
The bill was finally approved after Republicans secured the backing of two previously undecided senators, Democrat Ben Nelson from Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich from Ohio.
Large queues developed outside gas stations and people scrambled to withdraw cash from ATMs as Israelis made preparations to cope with a looming strike that could severely disrupt the country's daily operations.
Two US citizens, who were working as contractors for the CIA, lost their lives in a recent attack in Afghanistan, the Central Intelligence Agency confirmed on Tuesday.
Establishing a secure and impenetrable computer network for 190,000 government employees nationwide, tasked with combating terrorism, would be a formidable challenge for even the most skilled IT experts.
According to Gartner analysts, companies are not yet at a stage where they feel comfortable upgrading their corporate computers.
"We're gaining traction as we concentrate on our business goals and strive for financial success."
The sales figure, a key indicator of the company's overall well-being, surprisingly increased by 5% despite expectations that it would decline.
A judge granted permission to release the documents at the behest of multiple news organizations, including The Seattle Times, The Associated Press, and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, yesterday.
The new smartphone will be the first to come equipped with Microsoft's latest Windows Mobile 2003 software, according to the mobile operator.
According to Wolfowitz, neither armed conflict nor extensive corruption can effectively address the North Korean issue.
Federal Judge William Barbour handed down the maximum sentence to Avants due to his lack of remorse for the heinous murder.
The news was initially announced on Friday by MSNBC.
The company's research and development budget is projected to be $4.4 billion this year, a slight increase from the previously anticipated $4.3 billion.
Josephine Burke, the operator of an unlicensed daycare, was sentenced to four months in prison after being convicted of misdemeanor assault and child neglect.
As of Sunday, Tropical Storm Claudette was moving sluggishly towards the Texas coast, with predictions indicating it will transform into a hurricane by Tuesday morning as it makes landfall.
Scientists at Imperial College London found that this hormone can reduce food cravings in individuals with normal body weight.
He declared that he aimed to attract the most stunning individuals to the most magnificent structure, making the statement in the iconic Grand Central Terminal.
Since March 11, the Nasdaq has staged a remarkable comeback, surging by 21.2% after plummeting to its lowest levels since October.
The tuxedo store served as a cover for funneling illegal funds generated from fraudulent credit card transactions.
Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and William Sampson, a native of Glasgow, are at risk of being executed.
The World Health Organization has stated that the latest reported case does not match the typical characteristics of SARS and poses no significant threat to public health.
Wildfires have plagued the region for the third time in just four years, causing disruptions and destruction.
According to Rusty Wood, chairman of the coalition, the NAFTA decision confirms that Canadian lumber producers are flooding the US market with their products.
Cindy Cohn, Electronic Frontier Foundation's legal director, believes that the DMCA's provisions grant copyright holders excessive latitude.
Muhammad and his accomplice, Lee Boyd Malvo, were apprehended on October 24, 2002, at a Maryland highway rest stop, with their trial scheduled to begin on November 10.
The fate of the airline now rests with the hands of those conducting the negotiations.
Astronauts Story Musgrave, Robert "Hoot" Gibson, and Daniel Brandenstein will be inducted into the hall of fame as a trio.
Jim Furyk marked his inaugural Father's Day as a dad by triumphantly securing his maiden major golf title.
A suicide bomber detonated an explosive device outside the United Nations compound on Monday, resulting in the deaths of one security guard and the bomber himself.
Monsanto has announced that Grant has been appointed to its board of directors.
The stock market saw a significant increase, surging 11% to close at $21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange, with a gain of $2.11.
The aspect of temperament that has been extensively researched is individuals' reactions to new and unfamiliar situations.
The doctor expressed uncertainty about the method used to arrive at the specific number mentioned.
"The agreement is mutually beneficial for both parties, according to Halla."
A report revealed that a Corpus Christi-based agent phoned Escobar on two separate occasions while the legislator was accompanying fellow Democratic protesters in Ardmore, Oklahoma.
The petition concerns a particular product, 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate, which is commonly utilized for general engineering, tooling, and die-related purposes.
A warning is issued when ozone levels surpass 0.20 parts per million within a one-hour time frame.
One of the Oregon species was initially adapted to a temperature of 65 degrees, but it managed to endure until the aquarium temperature rose to 87 degrees.
In April, the real estate market experienced a surge in demand as buyers enthusiastically purchased both new and existing homes, largely driven by the availability of low interest rates on mortgages.
Counsel for the defense moved to dismiss the charges, arguing that the Bali court lacked the authority to prosecute these specific offenses.
The findings are being published in the January edition of the American Cancer Society's journal, Cancer, and are now available online.
Following the sudden passing of Labour Party leader John Smith due to a heart attack in 1994, Tony Blair assumed the leadership of the party.
A news article from the Associated Press is included for reference.
The organization responsible for setting standards cautions that modifications to Internet Explorer could have a significant impact on a significant proportion of current websites.
The study discovered that fishing long-lines, which previously yielded 10 fish per 100 hooks, have significantly decreased in productivity, with the current catch rate being just one fish per 100 hooks.
A landmark case has unfolded, where a parent has been accused of playing a role in their child's tragic suicide.
A lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange Commission is likely to be filed.
Given the impressive track record of The Winston in Charlotte, I firmly think that Lowes Motor Speedway is the only venue capable of truly doing it justice.
The UK's Ministry of Defence is being sued for £20 million by numerous Kenyan women who are alleging they were sexually assaulted by British soldiers.
The company's internal records couldn't explain why the outage affected such a large area.
Ciobanu may be sentenced to 15 years in prison if found guilty, according to Romania's new cybercrime laws, which Softwin claims are intended to hold individuals accountable for their online activities.
Mary Kathryn Miller, a 55-year-old woman, was taken into custody by state police on November 20th and accused of committing a first-degree theft.
Vivendi Universal is expected to start reviewing offers for its American entertainment assets on Monday, which are valued at a significant multibillion-dollar sum, and include some of Hollywood's most recognizable brands.
Over 1,000 individuals gathered for largely peaceful demonstrations, voicing their opposition to genetically modified foods as a solution to global food issues.
The chip boasts an enhanced LongRun power and heat management system for improved performance and thermal control.
"Ronald L. Kuby, a lawyer who had defended him in a harassment case, frequently sought my counsel, recalling that he would often call me for guidance."
Several nations, including Russia, France, and China, are pushing for the United Nations to play a more significant role in giving international recognition to the Iraqi government chosen by the US.
The upcoming testimony will provide a behind-the-scenes perspective on the creation and promotion of tax shelters.
The White House press secretary, Taylor Gross, expressed disappointment that Senator Clinton is trying to turn the confirmation process into a political issue, despite Governor Leavitt being an exceptionally well-qualified candidate.
WorldCom, plagued by an $11 billion accounting scandal, is rebranding itself with the name of its MCI long-distance division in an effort to revamp its tarnished reputation.
"A comprehensive internal examination is underway, with the aid of external experts, according to a recent statement."
Xerox's stock price finished the day at $11.45, with a 2-cent increase, as it was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
A basic setup consists of a 2.0 GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128 megabytes of RAM, a 40-gigabyte hard drive, and a CD-ROM drive, priced at $729 in US dollars.
The visit of Saudi Arabian Minister Saud al-Faisal was revealed on Monday by two unnamed administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
As the shooting incidents escalated, Moose reluctantly acknowledged that he couldn't provide the level of public safety the community required.
The number of car sales decreased by 8%, whereas light truck sales, encompassing vans, pickups, and SUVs, increased by 2.7%.
In the previous month, a devastating air disaster claimed the lives of 62 Spanish peacekeepers when their aircraft crashed in Turkey while they were en route back to their homeland.
It's expected that the project will take approximately three months to complete, and to achieve this, a separate audit of the Department of Environmental Quality will need to be postponed.
Two prominent figures, State Senator Vi Simpson and former Democratic chairman Joe Andrew, are vying for the Democratic nomination.
The proportion of respondents who view the current business climate as poor rose to 30.4% in the latest survey, up from 28.1% in June.
Trevor Fetter, who resumed his role as president at Tenet in November, has been named interim CEO by the company.
Comcast Class A shares experienced a modest increase, rising 8 cents to $30.50, during early trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
A Chinese military officer, Lt-Col Yang, was chosen from a group of 14 candidates, and he has a father who is both a teacher and a government official at an agricultural company.
According to Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer, the recent exercise proceeded smoothly, with certain components, particularly the inter-agency communication system, functioning more effectively than anticipated.
The notion of prescribing medication to mentally incapacitate patients for the purpose of hastening their demise poses significant challenges for physicians.
The Galveston County District Attorney's office recently obtained the audio recordings.
ECB President Wim Duisenberg stated in a recent television interview that it's premature to consider additional interest rate reductions in the euro zone at this time.
Two relatives of the Jordanian monarch are being considered as potential successors to the throne.
Belgium has announced that it will repeal a contentious law on war crimes, which has led to lawsuits being filed against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
He believed it would be extremely challenging to determine the exact reason behind the individual's demise.
GlaxoSmithKline, a British pharmaceutical company, announced in the past that it would stop supplying Canadian pharmacies that export drugs to the US market.
In her opinion, Justice O'Connor predicted that in 25 years, racial preferences will become obsolete.
"He performed poorly during that particular task," Mr. Villalona stated.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock, the British ambassador to the United Nations, is set to head a Security Council delegation to the region in mid-May.
Sanchez de Lozada pledged to hold a public vote on a contentious gas project, overhaul the existing free market energy legislation, and introduce constitutional amendments.
"At present, further examination is ongoing, and considering the early diagnosis, the prognosis appears promising."
"Throughout our relationship, I've consistently been transparent and forthcoming about my personal experiences," Limbaugh stated candidly during a remarkable public confession.
"Second-quarter sales fell short of expectations, primarily due to a decrease in retail inventory levels and a loss of market share, according to CEO Robert A. Eckert."
The Turkish forces may also be at risk of being targeted, the ambassador conceded.
Experts have forecasted that the company's third-quarter earnings will likely be 16 cents per share, with total revenue expected to reach approximately $7.15 billion.
The plan is to make the video recordings of the meetings available to the public after the US has given its approval, according to Jim Landale, a representative of the tribunal, with the release expected to take place on Friday.
In the absence of a governing law, individuals can freely donate to their own election campaigns, giving affluent candidates like Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth a significant financial edge.
Weather forecasters anticipated that the storm would intensify into a Category 1 hurricane before making landfall.
According to NASA satellite data, the Arctic ice cover has been declining at a rapid pace of approximately 10% every decade.
A temporary solution has been suggested by Microsoft, which users and businesses should adopt until a more permanent fix is available.
General Electric, the parent company of NBC, is viewed as a less motivated participant in the bidding process compared to other contenders such as Bronfman or Davis.
According to Dr. Julie Gerberding, the CDC's director, the numbers are shifting rapidly.
The Federal Open Market Committee's gathering begins on Tuesday, with a crucial monetary policy announcement expected to be made the following day.
The church was still reeling from the tragic loss of one of its own, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy, who was fatally injured in a helicopter crash in Iraq on November 7th.
No one on the conference committee is actively working to exclude the proposal entirely, according to Mr. Peterson.
IBM's internal IT teams are frequently tasked with thoroughly testing new platforms and technologies within the company.
Rehnquist's majority opinion was supported by Justices Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, in addition to O'Connor.
If additional funding for the project cannot be secured, AustMag's directors will be forced to discontinue the project to prevent the company from operating while insolvent.
The hacker behind the attacks, known as Eleonora67, was compelled to prolong the contest until 8am AEST today due to the occurrence of three additional incidents.
The investigation into Biggs' death stalled until a crucial break came four months later, when a tipster revealed that Mallard had shared details about the event at a social gathering.
A number of international diplomatic missions, including the Singaporean embassy, were specifically identified as targets in Bangkok.
The idea is to transform the CIA director role into a career position rather than a political appointment.
Japanese Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa stated that the yen has appreciated excessively, but refrained from making any statements regarding potential government intervention.
According to police, the individual is currently in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center, where he was admitted last night.
The annual Radiological Society of North America conference in Chicago saw the unveiling of a recent study.
"For the first time in my life, I felt that we were being accorded the respect and dignity that comes with being American."
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by 0.3% to 9,886.75, and the Nasdaq Composite index increased by 0.4% to 1,986.97.
Another JI member who has shared similar information is Omar al-Faruq, who is currently being detained at a classified location by the US authorities.
The value of government bonds increased, causing the interest rate on a 10-year bond to decrease to 4.38% from 4.39% at the end of the previous trading day.
Ford's second-quarter earnings were largely driven by Ford Credit, which reported a significant 21.5% increase in net profits, amounting to $401 million.
Roberson was attacked, suffering a bite wound on her back and scratches on her leg, as reported by her mother, Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester.
"The distinction lies in the presence of a tiny device known as the tuner."
I targeted sex workers because I have a strong dislike for the profession and didn't want to engage in a transactional sexual encounter with them.
No other company has a dividend yield lower than Intel Corp.'s.
Senior officials from Iraq, the United States, and Turkey convened at the Ceyhan port on Turkey's Mediterranean coast to mark the departure of a significant cargo.
A Russian foreign ministry representative has hinted that a statement will be released on Thursday detailing Russia's stance on collaborating with Iran's nuclear energy initiatives.
A member of the popular group So Solid Crew hastily discarded a loaded handgun in an alleyway after attempting to escape from the police.
The latest WPAN standard operates on the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band, supporting data transfer speeds of 11, 22, 33, 44, and 55 megabits per second.
Florida's primary election is scheduled to take place on March 9, which will follow the primary elections held in 28 other states.
The financial details of the agreement, anticipated to be finalized this month, remain undisclosed.
The German financial authority, BaFin, may express concerns over WestLB's risk evaluation.
Taiwan's SARS outbreak was on the verge of spiraling out of control this month, defying initial hopes for a swift resolution.
The companies intend to work together on designing the next iterations of memory technologies.
Countries like France, Russia, and China pushed for the United Nations to play a more significant part in supporting the newly appointed Iraqi leader, with the aim of giving them international recognition and authority.
Intel's CFO Andy Bryant noted that the company has not experienced a quarter with a growth rate as high as this one in over two and a half decades.
Gary Nicklaus, the 34-year-old son of golf legend Jack Nicklaus, received a sponsor's exemption and started his round strongly, sinking five birdies in his first nine holes, but ultimately finished with a 69.
According to Kelly, Donald Rumsfeld recently proposed that the honor of the year be awarded to every individual who serves in the US military.
The revamped Finder allows users to access all their folders, hard drives, network servers, iDisk, and removable media in a single, easily accessible location, enabling one-click navigation.
Approximately 700 MONUC personnel are stationed in Bunia, yet the organization lacks both the authorization and the resources to intervene in the conflict.
The Department of Defense's Inspector General at the Pentagon has been tasked with conducting a separate inquiry into the process by which telecom licenses were granted.
According to the U.S. Conference Board, its most recent business confidence index has risen to 60, following a decline to 53 in its initial quarter assessment.
On Thursday, residents of the canyon were relocated and the road to the area was blocked off by authorities.
Two brothers among a group of seven individuals from Portland have agreed to plead guilty to charges of conspiring to support al-Qaida and the Taliban, authorities announced on Wednesday.
"If they're misled, they might overlook credible warnings about the dangers of these substances and others in the future."
A majority of women, 83%, cleaned up, whereas 74% of men did the same.
Leaders from China, Russia, and four Central Asian countries convened in Beijing and endorsed a financial plan for their collective defense alliance.
In the second quarter of the fiscal year, Cisco reported a profit of $991 million, translating to 14 cents per share, with total revenue reaching $4.7 billion.
TSMC alleged that Syndia attempted to disrupt its interactions with its client base.
Some argue that finding a group of individuals with similarly severe depression is a challenge, which may dilute the impact of the medication's effectiveness.
Approximately 6,000 Metropolitan Transportation Authority drivers and train operators walked off the job in solidarity with the striking mechanics.
"With that statement, he received a thunderous applause, implying that he was convinced the speaker was a true Democrat."
The assailants had to launch their rockets from a considerable distance, utilizing a concealed launcher cleverly disguised within a portable electric generator.
According to official policy, employees are only permitted to wear a NYC transit depot logo cap on their head, contrary to Marisa Baldeo's assertion.
A minor was taken into custody, accused of creating a modified version of the computer virus known as "RPCSDBOT".
Multiple additional lawsuits are currently in progress in federal court.
"Ms. Stewart's prosecution is not driven by her identity, but rather by her actions."
A woman was rushed to New Charing Cross Hospital via ambulance and her situation is extremely grave.
Despite progress, the 2.6.0 kernel is not yet ready for widespread commercial adoption.
The Russell 2000, a benchmark for smaller company stocks, rose by 11.92 points, or 2.5%, to finish the week at 497.42.
Brian Brabazon revealed that his son would initially become upset when bullied, but would eventually make amends with his tormentors.
Blagojevich reaffirmed his opposition to using a gambling expansion to balance the budget on Wednesday.
The Lovsan worm initially launched a global assault on computers, causing widespread disruptions.
A UN representative emphasizes the urgent need for action, as Japan joins the global chorus of pressure by announcing it will suspend its significant economic assistance until Aung San Suu Kyi is released.
The vaccine won't be tested on humans until 2005 and will likely take several years to receive approval for public use.
The United Auto Workers union has recently come to provisional agreements with Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Group, and Visteon Corporation, all valid for a four-year period.
Jane Doe's legal team requested that Verizon keep her identity confidential, as she intended to contest the subpoena.
Lawmakers are reconvening for a special session, with a proposed bill anticipated to be approved, which aims to reduce the cost of medical malpractice insurance for doctors.
Ryan Harvey, a talented outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida, was chosen sixth overall by the Chicago Cubs in a notable draft selection.
The authorities took the four individuals out of the residence, and together they totaled 136 pounds.
IDC analyst John McArthur notes that price drops have consistently stayed under 30% for the past two consecutive quarters.
A teacher with a master's degree and national board certification, Kelley, has 30 years of teaching experience and earns $65,000 annually.
Tonight, Morgan, a 21-year-old student, will join approximately 1,200 fellow Wheaton College students in the gym for the institution's inaugural dance event, marking a milestone in the school's 143-year history.
The capsule made a rough landing on its side, sliding approximately 12 meters, likely pulled by the primary parachute's gentle drag.
Italian news agency ANSA reports that the same anarchist group that took credit for the December 21 explosions near his residence is believed to be involved.
For the first time ever, it is predicted that five movies will each earn over $20 million in a single weekend.
A second senior Rite Aid executive has reached a deal with federal prosecutors in the span of two weeks.
The authorities suspect that the victim's life was taken by someone who used a garrotting technique, and it's also possible that she was subjected to a sexual attack.
The estimate has a margin of error of approximately 4.9% either way.
MONY stock prices were rising $2.57, or 9%, to $31.90 in after-hours Instinet trading.
According to the Labor Department, the payroll statistics from the business survey offer a more reliable snapshot of the economy due to the larger sample size.
Experts believe the recent developments have increased the likelihood of a Federal Reserve interest rate reduction at their upcoming meeting on June 24-25.
FDA Commissioner Mark McClellan believes Kraft's new initiative has the potential to set a significant precedent.
The state's formation will only occur once the provisional government establishes a procedure for drafting a new constitution and schedules the country's inaugural democratic elections.
The damage to the wing allowed hot gases to seep into the ship's thermal armor during its doomed re-entry into the atmosphere.
The global market for external hard drives saw a 1.5% year-on-year revenue growth in Q3, reaching $3.2 billion.
Jimmy Hoffa, 62, mysteriously disappeared on July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Bloomfield Township, Oakland County, approximately 25 miles north of Detroit.
Tomorrow evening, approximately 1,200 students, including 21-year-old Morgan, will convene at Wheaton College's gymnasium for the institution's inaugural dance event in its 143-year history.
"Following the events that transpired here, I think it's distasteful and disloyal," said JoAnn Marquis, a visitor from Salem, Massachusetts, accompanied by her husband.
Paul Durousseau, 30, has been accused of committing five murders in Jacksonville between December and February and is also a suspect in a 1997 homicide in Georgia.
According to Stack, he didn't start working for Triumph until 1999, shortly after a grand jury launched an investigation into Silvester.
Aside from a few outdated traits, they are instantly recognizable, much like Hamlet's skull.
A request for comment from Rev. Christopher Coyne, the spokesperson for the archdiocese, went unanswered.
US Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, who revealed the ban on Tuesday, will dispatch a team of experts to Canada to provide assistance.
Approximately 130,000 American soldiers are stationed in Iraq, with additional deployments in Afghanistan, South Korea, and other regions.
A recent survey of patients in five urban clinics found that nearly 40% of respondents mistakenly believed that cancer can spread through air exposure during surgery.
The institute claims the department grossly misjudges the significant transformations that would arise from the proposed plan.
Following a surge in rebel attacks on a nearby Russian region and a string of deadly apartment bombings attributed to the rebels, they re-emerged in 1999.
"This is a pivotal moment in our agency's history, I believe," Mr. O'Keefe stated.
Almost two-thirds of the company's 1,000-strong workforce lost their lives in the assault.
As the SARS virus spread globally, the number of fatalities had risen to nearly 770, with over 8,300 people affected since its outbreak in southern China in November.
A teenage boy committed a brutal attack on a 6-year-old child, inflicting severe injuries that could have been fatal, without any discernible motive.
Individuals who experience a high frequency of positive emotions tend to enjoy better sleep quality, maintain healthier eating habits, engage in more physical activity, and have lower concentrations of stress hormones, according to Cohen.
A lawsuit is not typically initiated until a bill has been enacted into law.
He attributed the surge in cases to intricate underlying causes, which scientists were still in the process of uncovering and identifying the key contributing factors.
For a long time, Jacob has advocated for consolidation, but he acknowledges that many communities, particularly rural ones, have strongly resisted the idea.
A heartbroken elderly woman, overwhelmed with sorrow, covered her face with dirt, lamenting "Oh, my child, my child!"
The surge in the company's value can be attributed to a combination of factors, including the financial struggles of a major competitor, WorldCom Inc., and speculation that AT&T could be a prime takeover candidate.
The three priests took the proper ecclesiastical route, utilizing the procedures outlined in canon law to assert their legal entitlements.
Missouri Governor Bob Holden requested that the White House declare a state of federal emergency in 39 counties.
Biotech stocks surged as ImClone Systems and Genentech reported promising results from clinical trials of their cancer treatments, indicating positive outcomes for patients.
In the last month, a significant outbreak occurred in Colorado, resulting in over 6,300 cases and a minimum of six fatalities.
The schools of Miami, Boston College, and Syracuse are departing the Big East to join the Atlantic Coast Conference.
In March 2002, a majority of home broadband users, specifically 63%, relied on cable modems for their internet connection, while 34% opted for DSL services.
Over the course of a year, there was a significant surge of 49% in high-speed cable modem connections.
The player drove in a run on a ground ball hit against Franklin in the fifth inning.
Revenue decreased to $36.9 billion in the third quarter, down from $39.3 billion, largely due to a decline in vehicle sales.
Sean Harrigan of Calpers, the California fund, emphasized that their primary goal is to extract the valuable resources from the available opportunities.
On a planet that has a remarkably long orbital period of 165 years around the sun, spring can persist for an astonishing 40 years or more.
The two influential individuals have differing opinions on ethanol, which holds significant cultural importance in Iowa, as well as on the topic of permitting oil and gas exploration in Alaska's wildlife sanctuary.
The exact number of passengers on the ferry remains unknown, as ferry companies typically don't maintain detailed records of passenger manifests.
The medical community characterized the situation as mildly concerning, yet treatable.
The United States has a significant trading relationship with Singapore, with bilateral trade exceeding $34 billion annually, making Singapore the country's 12th-largest trading partner.
The US dollar made significant advances against the euro, yen, and Swiss franc, defying expectations of a decline, even after US retail sales data for September fell short of forecasts.
"If the voluntary guidelines had been followed, this issue wouldn't have arisen."
For many years, the Inland Empire has had a long-standing tradition of hosting Labor Day racing events.
The interest rate on the 3.625% February 2013 bond decreased by 2 percentage points to 3.66%.
Law enforcement officials visited two nightclubs, Cheetah's and Jaguars, as well as an office located above a bar and pool hall in the downtown Las Vegas area.
According to Dell'Oro Group, the market is predicted to reach a value of $12 billion by the end of 2004.
A revival of Eugene O'Neill's family drama "Long Day's Journey Into Night" garnered seven Tony nominations and showed significant box-office success.
Frank McCloskey, a 64-year-old former US representative, passed away at his home following a prolonged struggle with bladder cancer.
A planned 18-month stint in Toronto was initially part of a broader North American tour.
Since March 11, the Nasdaq, which is heavily influenced by the tech sector, has experienced a significant surge, rising by almost 20% after hitting a multi-year low in October, with its major indices reaching their lowest levels since then.
Approximately 120 prospective jurors are being required to fill out a detailed survey.
According to Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz, the lives of American warfighters are threatened by the unauthorized transfer of military components.
The event was ultimately attributed to the sonic boom produced by the Concorde.
A decision from the three-judge panel is expected to be made public in mid-February at the next court hearing.
Companies are transforming the retail industry by adopting innovative strategies and best practices that they can apply to their own operations and partnerships.
A number of companies, including Intel, Sony, Microsoft, HP, IBM, Gateway, and Nokia, among others, are also involved in this endeavor.
The Ex-Im board members demonstrated remarkable bravery and environmental stewardship despite intense opposition, according to Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth, following the panel's decision.
The prolonged conflict in the oil-rich region has resulted in the loss of over 10,000 lives, with the majority being innocent civilians.
Thomas was fully supported by Rehnquist, and to some extent, also by O'Connor and Scalia.
Intel's servers remained unaffected by the emails, and the thousands of recipients were able to ask Hamidi to cease the messages, which he did.
A 14-year-old boy from Belmont, North Carolina, named Tom Kasmer, heard a word that sounded like "zistee" during a competition yesterday.
According to US Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, the recent blackout was largely avoidable.
Following the 9/11 attacks, investigators devoted thousands of hours to scrutinizing al-Bayoumi's activities.
The euro reached a record high of 135.13 yen in the days following its introduction in January 1999.
Certain Boston managers worry that prohibiting smoking will lead to safety issues as clusters of smokers gather outside bars and nightclubs.
Canada's environment commissioner claims that the federal government is greenlighting new pesticides without first determining their potential impact on children's health.
"We think it's unnecessary to engage in a contentious debate over a Supreme Court nominee."
During a nine-year period, spanning from 1993 to 2002, a total of 142 instances of alleged sexual assault were documented.
According to recent official data, a surprising 0.6% decline in manufacturing production was reported for August.
The SEC revealed that even when infractions were identified, the exchange frequently did not impose disciplinary measures.
According to a Saudi newspaper, Okaz, individuals who managed to evade capture during a Saturday raid were forced to abandon their vehicle on the outskirts of Mecca on Sunday after it broke down.
Mr. Chandler clarified that although he's not denying the possibility, his team hasn't found any concrete proof supporting the alleged connection.
Israeli Foreign Minister Sylvan Shalom hinted that President Bush may make a visit to the region in the near future.
The document examined both legitimate actions, like organizing protest rallies, and illicit actions, such as presenting falsified documents to gain unauthorized access to a restricted area.
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be utilized independently or integrated with the ControlCenter suite of storage management solutions.
A lush green meadow and a small asphalt outcropping, featuring a cash machine, mark the spot where Orville Wright experimented with innovative designs, including a split-wing airplane, worked on automobiles, and even crafted toys.
The organization created a non-binding list of priorities, which included the possibility of allocating up to a quarter of the funds to mitigate the proposed 5% reduction in fees paid to healthcare providers.
A staggering 10 million shares from the sale were transferred to an anonymous charitable trust, which subsequently liquidated its stake.
Microsoft has issued a crucial patch to address a significant flaw in its freshly launched Office 2003 software package.
A court hearing took place in Fulton County Superior Court on Thursday morning, kicking off the process of determining the outcome of Matthew Whitley's case.
The president characterized the blackout as a stark reminder of the need for the United States to modernize its aging electrical infrastructure.
"It seems that almost anyone with a cell phone would ideally prefer to have a superior one, according to Huang."
Kerry Kennedy and Andrew Cuomo have been in a long-term marriage, spanning over a decade and a half.
Mauritania made history in 1999 by becoming the third Arab League country to establish formal diplomatic ties with Israel.
According to Mr. Schröder, Germany is making progress, with his government's Agenda 2010 plan and tax reductions serving as evidence of its commitment to structural reform.
Well into his 94th year, Lacy continued to dedicate himself to transforming the sport of baseball.
The 30-year US Treasury bond's yield dropped by a full percentage point to 4.47% from 4.41% at the end of the long-term market.
"I categorically deny the baseless claim that I stole money from Jennifer Lopez, finding it not only false but also deeply insulting."
Khodorkovsky's plane was intercepted by agents claiming to be from the Russian domestic intelligence agency, which is the successor to the Soviet-era KGB.
A long-standing impasse between the two countries was finally broken, as tensions had been escalating for months due to disagreements over North Korea's nuclear ambitions and the US's insistence that they be halted.
Berry has been married and divorced twice, with his most recent divorce occurring in 1991, which was his second marriage.
Since Perkins joined UConn in 1990, after relocating from Maryland, the university has boasted an impressive six national championship teams across three sports, including men's and women's basketball, as well as men's soccer.
AOL and CompuServe were accused of delaying the distribution of promised rebates to their customers.
A group of 10 police officers were in hot water after they abandoned their scheduled patrol duties to watch David Blaine perform.
A severe respiratory crisis is unfolding in Taiwan, prompting officials to lock down hundreds of people in two major hospitals, sparking concerns about a potential outbreak.
Currently, the city of Banja Luka is home to a relatively small community of approximately 2,000 Roman Catholics.
Hospital efforts to establish "fever clinics" in parking lot tents to divert infectious patients from emergency rooms are making significant progress, according to Dr. Roth.
In Mexico, the practice of bounty hunting is regarded as a type of abduction.
Indonesian militant Imam Samudra, dubbed the "field commander" of the attacks, was handed a death sentence recently.
During the weekend, the top 12 films collectively earned $157.1 million, representing a 52% increase from the same weekend in the previous year.
Engineers underestimated the severity of the damage, and at the same time, they regretted the poor quality of the liftoff footage.
University of San Diego securities law professor Frank Partnoy believes that the situation implies that Merrill Lynch failed to properly monitor and manage its executives' activities.
The S3C2440 CPU is compatible with a wide range of operating systems, including Windows CE and Pocket PC, Palm OS, Symbian, and Linux.
He cautioned his adult offspring against accumulating credit card debt.
Physical activity, excluding dancing, did not show a significant reduction in risk.
A study discovered that individuals aged 65 and above who consumed fish on a weekly basis experienced a 60% reduced likelihood of developing Alzheimer's disease compared to those who rarely or never ate fish.
While mall owners and shopkeepers observed a decline in individuals waiting overnight for early deals, they did notice a surge in foot traffic by the afternoon hours.
The US President took this step in reaction to Hamas's assertion of responsibility for the deadly bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday, which resulted in the loss of 20 lives.
A prolonged standoff between the individual and law enforcement resulted in a 47-hour impasse, causing significant congestion in downtown Washington and northern Virginia's roads.
If the company fails to submit its reports by the end of May, it risks being delisted, according to an SFC official.
A gap of this size would allow a flow of gas that is roughly three times hotter than a blowtorch's flame to enter.
Altria, a New York-based company, experienced a significant surge in its tobacco shares, with its stock price increasing by nearly 10% to $38.28.
The OneNote note-taking software is available for £169.99, whereas the InfoPath XML data collection application costs £179.99.
The US government and tech specialists issued a warning that hackers are planning a massive online assault on thousands of websites this Sunday, which could lead to significant disruptions in internet traffic.
Ray Kroc's widow, billionaire Joan B. Kroc, passed away on Sunday after a short battle with brain cancer.
Liu Jinbao, the chief executive of BOCHK, made a sudden move to Beijing in recent weeks.
When seeking asylum, the daughters of Mr. Hussein reportedly considered British institutions such as schools and hospitals as their primary destination.
A European Union agriculture representative in Washington, Gerry Kiely, revealed that EU ministers were initially invited but ultimately declined attendance due to the EU's ongoing negotiations on agricultural reform.
The illegal alteration of medications has become a highly profitable venture, resulting in many of those caught living in lavish, multi-million dollar residences.
The Space Infrared Telescope Facility, designed and constructed by Lockheed Martin, marks the final installment of NASA's esteemed Hubble-class "Great Observatories" series.
"A lawyer from Miami, Neal R. Sonnett, emphasized the importance of protecting individuals we may not personally like or even detest, particularly in the context of enemy combatants."
The majority of the $51 billion was allocated for the deployment of American troops in Iraq, with an additional $10 billion allocated for U.S. forces in Afghanistan.
"We've likely made some errors on this exam, and it's our responsibility to pinpoint and rectify them."
Forty-five-year-old Ruffner remains unrepresented in the murder case, according to authorities.
"We'll have to wait and see if it's feasible to march with all four of us, timing-wise."
South Korea boasts an impressive 21 broadband users per 100 residents, demonstrating its dominance in terms of broadband penetration.
Board Chairman Robert Bennett chose not to discuss employee-related issues, and Mills also remained silent on the topic.
In the same period last year, the company reported earnings of $446 million, or 7 cents per share, on revenue of $6.3 billion.
"This serves as a warning to telemarketers that we will take every step possible to safeguard the privacy of individuals who wish to be left undisturbed in their own homes."
The forecast for earnings per share varied from 16 cents to 27 cents, as estimated by Thomson First Call.
It is anticipated that Mr. Brendsel will continue his tenure with the Freddie Mac Foundation.
The SARS outbreak has had a significant impact on Taiwan's economy, mirroring the effects felt across the region, with consumer spending plummeting and businesses such as shops, restaurants, and airports suffering from a significant decline in activity.
The second quarter of 2002's financial results do not incorporate the data from our partnership with Compaq.
Oracle's stock price increased by 12 cents, now standing at $13.60 per share.
According to John C. McCarthy, director of Forrester Group, while some companies may claim to achieve BPO cost savings, vendors often exaggerate the capabilities of their current services.
As the prime minister's trial comes to a temporary standstill, his fellow defendants in the same case are left without immunity.
He claimed that European governments have stifled the development of new bio-crops due to irrational and scientifically unsupported concerns.
The Chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, a key institution, determines the interest rates in the United States.
An expert from the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, Manouchehr Takin, stated that they did not take control of them.
Amrozi accused his brother, who he referred to as "the witness", of intentionally misrepresenting his testimony.
Despite the necessary conditions for recovery being present, the outlook for British exports is now less promising than initially anticipated.
Sony's subscription service offers a diverse range of customized offerings, allowing users to access and enjoy a selection of digital content, including images, ringtones, music videos, and other forms of entertainment.
James Brolin and Judy Davis, both accomplished actors with prestigious awards under their belts, portray the iconic duo Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the film The Reagans.
Since December 31, American has dismissed approximately 6,500 employees in Missouri, as revealed by Driskill.
"The ECB's struggles with communication are a telling indication of a broader issue."
We won't achieve progress unless we widen our scope and include a more diverse range of perspectives.
In contrast, women undergoing hormonal treatment after chemotherapy seemed to experience a positive impact on their survival rates.
The newly combined entity will retain the Interwoven brand and will be based in Sunnyvale.
A high-ranking official from G + J is currently providing testimony in a breach of contract lawsuit against O'Donnell in a Manhattan State Supreme Court.
The US Capitol Police Chief, Terrance Gainer, attributed the incident to two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes.
The firm has reached a deal to acquire the paper division of Buhrmann, the leading paper supplier in Europe, as part of a Dutch office supplies group.
According to Gelinas, only six of the cases have undergone a comprehensive re-examination.
The widespread use of a single operating system, which is prone to the same vulnerabilities, exacerbates the decline in security, noted Geer.
Lee secured a temporary court order in New York, blocking Viacom from utilizing the name "Spike TV".
Around 30% of the roughly 7 million annual immigration benefit applications are comprised of these two forms, according to immigration officials.
The auditors failed to review the personnel files of the priests during their investigation.
The S&P 500 index rose by 0.96% to 929.06, with an increase of 8.79 points.
Italian authorities conducted a search of Tanzi's residence near Parma on Wednesday, but he was not present, as he had already fled to a foreign nation unknown to the public.
To stay ahead of the competition, you need to tap into your inner strength and deliver exceptional performance.
A global arrest warrant was put out for his capture, with copies sent to both Ghanaian law enforcement and Interpol.
He confesses to having led a carefree and reckless lifestyle, marked by indulgence in marijuana, a string of romantic conquests, and a general disregard for caution.
Amrozi did not disclose the name of his employer or his supervisor.
The World Wildlife Fund estimates that approximately 13,000 animals are being captured annually in the Straits of Gibraltar and surrounding regions.
The future of the revenue recovery remains uncertain, and it's unclear whether it will be a temporary or lasting phenomenon.
Two years after the incident, Mallard is about to face trial, accused of committing murder and intentionally altering evidence.
A recent round of interviews with NASA engineers, who have previously remained silent, reveal the significant rift between the agency's technical experts and its leadership.
Following a failed restructuring proposal, AES Corp., the American owner of Drax, has withdrawn from the plant after banks and bondholders declined to accept its plan.
The spotlight has been shone on vaccine manufacturers due to government initiatives to boost vaccination rates and concerns about potential biological threats against both civilian and military populations.
Intel has introduced its latest processor designed for use in mobile phones, PDAs, and other wireless gadgets.
Election officials are growing increasingly concerned that they will not have sufficient time to prepare for the upcoming election, as the start date is rapidly approaching.
Apple is collaborating with Oxford Semiconductor and the manufacturers of affected drives to address the problem, which stems from a glitch in the Oxford 922 chipset.
Prior to the explosion, Wells informed the authorities that he had been coerced into robbing the bank and pleaded with them to assist him in disarming the device.
According to Mr. Warner, Harold and his group informed them that all six individuals are deceased.
The video footage appears to show the ball striking the ground before making contact with Sangakkara's foot.
A transitional Iraqi government, comprising a council of up to nine members, is likely to be headed by the US-appointed administrator for the foreseeable future.
Nina Axelrod, his daughter, informed the Associated Press that her father passed away peacefully in his sleep, reportedly due to cardiac arrest.
The stock market has experienced a significant surge over the past 3-1/2 months, driven by optimism that the economy will recover later this year.
The North American futures market is expected to experience a lackluster opening on Tuesday, with investors preparing to dive into quarterly earnings reports for the first time.
In 1996, Stony Brook University embarked on a research project, prompted by initial findings suggesting a potential link between electromagnetic fields and cancer.
In September 2001, the couple's marriage was officially dissolved, and Joanie Harper was awarded sole guardianship of their children, Marques and Lyndsey, according to court documents.
Beckham will be paid a base salary of $10 million annually, with additional bonuses, bringing his total earnings to approximately $220,000 per game.
"We are launching a bold initiative to combat and eradicate sexual harassment and assault."
Nelson's sentence has been reduced to a maximum of 10 years in prison, previously facing a life sentence.
I owe a significant debt of gratitude to Sir Alex Ferguson for shaping me into the footballer I am today.
Bond expressed his disappointment that neither the President nor his brother attended the conference in Florida, nor did they show up to the one held in Texas the previous year.
The settlement would not have a financial impact on individuals in terms of lost income or medical expenses.
East Africa has a history of being plagued by terrorist threats and actual attacks.
Despite growing public opposition, the governments in question have reaffirmed their unwavering commitment to their stance.
The 39-year-old man initially used a fake name when speaking to police, but eventually disclosed his real identity.
Sources close to the matter have indicated that the launch is expected to take place between October 10th and 17th, and will involve the deployment of two male entities.
Restaurants with varying daily menus would find it inconvenient, she noted.
Perry has convened two extraordinary legislative sessions with the aim of compelling the passage of the redistricting plan.
"The two youngsters are in excellent physical shape at present," he announced at the hospital press conference.
"Mr. Klein announced that he will convey to Mr. Cheney that Canada is a trustworthy and consistent source of energy."
When I dialed the number, a woman answered and informed me that she was on a call with Toby Studabaker at the time, according to Sherry Studabaker's statement to BBC television.
An inquiry by the Air Force's internal auditor and the Defense Department is currently underway.
The proposed plan is expected to lead to a shift in the congressional makeup, with 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats gaining seats, replacing the current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans.
A visit by Minister Saud al-Faisal was revealed on Monday by two unnamed government officials.
Rowland's former deputy chief of staff confessed to accepting bribes, including gold and cash, in exchange for securing state contracts in March.
Bill Frist, the Republican Senate majority leader from Tennessee, expressed his desire for Congress to complete its work on the legislation by the end of September.
The government has been taking steps towards establishing a multi-party democratic system and promoting national unity in Myanmar.
She declared to a jubilant crowd in New Orleans that a fresh start for Louisiana has been conveyed to the entire nation.
Jimmy Hoffa, 62, mysteriously disappeared on the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Oakland County, approximately 25 miles north of Detroit.
China isn't in a competitive hurry, so there's no pressing need to speed up, according to Clark.
Argentina and the International Monetary Fund agreed to a minimal $6.8 billion debt refinancing agreement six months ago, which is set to expire in August.
According to scientific data, Toronto's most recent COVID-19 case was on April 19, which means the city was cleared of the virus yesterday.
Ximian's acquisition by Novell enables us to tap into their vast experience, allowing us to better collaborate with our customers and optimize our use of open source projects.
X2 earned a massive $17.1 million in a single week, contributing to a grand total of $174 million in just three weeks.
Despite her initial request, she was still denied permission to attend her father's funeral on the island, even years after the fact.
