While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
Although it was termed mandatory, Dupont noted that officials were not compelling people to leave their homes.
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge representing Lee, did not respond to phone calls on Wednesday afternoon.
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He emphasized the need for a system to ensure a seamless shift from conflict to peace.
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is anticipated to raise over $1 million.
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The wider Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX advanced by 3 points, or 0.39 percent, to 924.
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
This exploit targets unpatched Windows 2000 systems with Service Pack 3 or 4.
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She appeared in court in New York state on three murder charges and was denied bail.
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
At least 29 U.S. soldiers have been killed in action since President Bush announced the end of major combat operations on May 1.
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
"Through its actions, the Bush administration risks tarnishing the reputation of a just war," the Connecticut Democrat stated at a Capitol Hill press event.
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
The refreshed 64-bit OS, Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems, will operate natively on desktops powered by AMD Athlon 64 processors and workstations equipped with AMD Opteron processors.
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
John Bankhead, a GBI spokesman, stated that the crime scenes indicated the murderer was highly organized.
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
Later that day, however, a former Intel executive flipped the script in his speech, criticizing wireless technology for being overly complex and difficult to set up.
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
"Georgia needs to secure funding," said Dr. Melinda Rowe, Chatham County's health director.
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
In 2001, they transferred it to Syndia via the Lemelson Medical, Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership.
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Her knees remained swollen for days, and she still has scars on them as well as on her legs and ankles.
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
"A very strong program could be obtained for around 20 cents per day," Griffin stated.
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening, he requested six pizzas and soda, which the police brought over.
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have utilized these networks, which depend on wire transfers, couriers, and overnight mail, to send money to their families abroad.
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The compensation committee will bar securities industry directors from joining it.
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Justice John Paul Stevens likened the interrogation of Martinez to "an effort to extract an involuntary confession through torturous means from a detainee."
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without its own fleet, NASA has depended on Russia’s space program to rotate crew members and deliver supplies to the International Space Station.
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The prior weekend record for an R-rated movie was $58 million, set by "Hannibal."
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
The department also dispatched water and soil samples to the state's health lab.
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the 12 months ending June 30, advanced service lines across all technology types grew by 56 percent.
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s, the board discovered that budget cuts and compromises gradually eroded the shuttle program's safety margins.
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Downer initially stated that the 14 Kurds did not request refugee status when they landed on a boat at Melville Island last week.
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
The outcome is a comprehensive plan that will ensure substantial economic growth for our staff over the next four years.
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
"I love the Catholic Church with all my heart, mind, soul, and strength," Troy said, speaking rapidly but steadily.
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
They glanced at their son-in-law and his family, but remained silent.
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
Intel, based in Santa Clara, sought an injunction, claiming that Hamidi was violating its computer servers in the same way as trespassing on private property.
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Last month, Kerry proposed a U.N. resolution that would authorize a U.S.-led military force and hand over political and humanitarian responsibilities to the United Nations.
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
"Spring has come to Estonia -- we're back in Europe," Prime Minister Juhan Parts announced at a press conference on Sunday.
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She visited Lady Mary at her Double Bay residence yesterday to express gratitude for the donation.
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media tycoons vied for position as the deadline for bidding on Vivendi Universal’s U.S. entertainment assets loomed on Monday, in an auction of some of Hollywood’s most renowned properties.
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His additional films include "Malcolm X," "Summer of Sam," and "Jungle Fever."
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
SSE's CEO Marchant announced the sale of Midlands' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to British utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds.
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday, Christian Ganczarski was detained at the airport and was expected to face an anti-terrorism judge shortly, officials stated.
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, the deputy general director of Mediterranean Airlines, which owns the plane, suggested that fog likely caused the aircraft to deviate from its intended flight path.
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The jury's decision, announced Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation, came after a 2 1/2 week trial where Waagner acted as his own lawyer.
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Bashir not only gave his approval but also requested, “that we hit the target well,” according to Mr Bafana.
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven out of the nine Democratic presidential hopefuls were set to speak at the forum.
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
Richardson stated that Burns felt confessing to a crime he didn’t commit was his only option.
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
The other seven countries involved are Britain, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain.
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers, IBM's vice president of grid computing strategy, says he isn't concerned that off-the-shelf PC clusters will threaten the sales of traditional supercomputers.
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
He also noted that it encounters major regulatory hurdles and ambiguity, and risks causing substantial harm to the company’s operations.
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The solution, according to the group, would be to "develop a format that all devices can use but can also support other formats."
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
At the news conference, Mr. Gettelfinger stated, "We will keep pushing hard in the negotiations until we reach an agreement," with Ford and G.M.
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr. Goh, for his part, characterized the visit as particularly significant in light of the SARS situation.
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
Then they entered the mosque and began shooting at the people, he told the Associated Press.
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
"Mr. Shelby stated on NBC's 'Meet the Press,' 'My assessment is that 95 percent of that information could be declassified, allowing the American people to know.'"
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
Symbolically selling it marks the end of that era in the management of our city's schools.
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces a charge for allegedly causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer.
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
Both Blair and Bush have been accused of twisting intelligence on weapons of mass destruction to justify military action.
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Scientists from Sweden's Karolinska Institute revisited data on over 2,000 infants who received radiation treatment for a non-cancerous birthmark between 1930 and 1959.
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
As part of these changes, Microsoft will also link stock awards for its top 600 executives to the growth and "satisfaction" of its customer base.
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Tropical Storm Henri, moving slowly and delivering heavy rain, drenched Florida on Friday, spawning strong storms that put additional strain on already swollen lakes and rivers.
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not provided to us but discovered by our reporter, David Blair, at the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad.
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
At this stage, we're not sure if the ongoing investigation involves one or more external contractors.
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A shooter with a grudge against the Postal Service burst into a suburban post office on Wednesday and seized two employees as hostages, officials reported.
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Paper bond holders can, but are not obligated to, switch to electronic accounts.
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesman Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic is under attack for treating opposition supporters.
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch, set to turn 81 next month, was honored for her generosity yesterday by Sarah O'Hare, a model and actor, and the patron of the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia, merely 26% of girls aged 10-19 have heard of AIDS, and only 1% are aware of how to protect themselves.
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
"Mr Gilbertson was entitled to these superannuation payments regardless of how he exited the company," Mr Argus stated.
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The most recent attack occurred only two days after three suicide attackers drove an explosives-laden vehicle into a government facility in northern Chechnya, resulting in 59 deaths.
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Authorities in the U.S. announced today that Andrew Luster, the heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune and a fugitive rapist, has been apprehended in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts lacks a state death penalty, and only once before, in Michigan, has the federal death penalty been imposed in a state without capital punishment.
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
In a later statement, he noted it seemed his team had come up a bit short.
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
His ruling ensures that the case against Gary Lee Sampson, including the capital charges, will proceed to trial in September.
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
The number of likely cases fell to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in Toronto and its surrounding areas, a city with a population of four million.
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Palm anticipates transferring Handspring's staff to its headquarters in Milpitas, California.
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
On Monday, police took into custody a "potential suspect" in the case of a nine-year-old girl who was found safe two days after being forcibly taken from her home.
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
With temperatures climbing over 50 degrees (120 Fahrenheit), refrigerators and air conditioners have struggled to function in Basra.
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
Gehman stated that the board's final report, due out in late August, will not assign individual responsibility for the Columbia accident, which claimed the lives of seven astronauts.
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
The study reported that disability decreased by over 10 percent for individuals aged 60 to 69.
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Tom Parker, his spokesman, stated that Moore's legal team would address the complaint on Monday.
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
Initially, two officials reported that around 300 employees were detained across 61 locations in 21 states.
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani, a crucial Saudi operative for Al Qaeda and a primary suspect in the Riyadh bombings, is still at large.
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Mr Koizumi criticized Mr Konoike, stating his comments were "inappropriate."
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is emphasizing the inclusion of .NET and J2EE support in its Enterprise Application Environment (EAE) with the latest mainframe.
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, an inhabitant of the Comoros Islands, appears on the U.S. FBI's list of top fugitives.
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He faces charges for three bombings in Atlanta, including one during the 1996 Olympics, as well as a bombing in Alabama.
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
His victory was celebrated by some as a milestone for LGBTQ+ rights, but denounced by others as a defiance of divine law.
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
However, the return home for these soldiers, along with the 3rd Squadron of the 7th Cavalry Regiment, has now been delayed indefinitely.
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Since last June, the Red Cross has allocated $114 million to disaster relief, yet received just $40 million in donations.
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
The companies stated, "It was never our intent to target or offend anyone or to provoke hatred or violence."
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD Software, a private company established in 1992, has been providing antivirus and security solutions since 1994 under the brand RAV AntiVirus.
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
On Tuesday, Lloyds TSB confirmed it was "evaluating its options" regarding the potential sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary.
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
No transcript exists for the courtroom session in Tarrytown, located 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River.
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham, a 76-year-old jeweler in New York's diamond district, reportedly took a $30,000 down payment from Lakhani for the missiles, according to the government.
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
On the bright side, C & W’s projected lease obligations — a possible barrier to exiting the U.S. — decreased by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion.
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD further claims that Young frequently traveled on Tyco’s company jets, usually alongside Kozlowski.
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
Researchers have discovered that an experimental medication can slow vision loss due to an eye condition that is the primary cause of blindness in older adults.
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The move was one of the most crucial actions toward reducing regulations during President Bush's term.
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Moffitt stated that the findings should be confirmed in a separate study before proceeding with individual tests for the long or short variants of the gene.
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
Gilroy police and FBI agents reported that Gehring was cooperative, yet as of Saturday, he had provided no information about the children's whereabouts.
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock ended Friday at $5.91, falling $1.24, or 17 percent, on the Nasdaq.
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Following the explosion, individuals playing around 150 "victims" staggered among the debris as rescue vehicles rushed to the area.
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
He participates in football practice for three hours daily to speed up his recovery, and has shed 17 kilograms since October.
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
This condition is linked to heart disease, chronic kidney disease, blindness, and the need for amputations.
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
It lists Shelley, Conny McCormack the Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters, and registrars from Orange and San Diego counties as defendants.
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
Goodyear's third-quarter earnings report, originally set for release on Thursday, has been rescheduled to November.
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
After receiving notice from Hewitt's legal team about impending action, the ATP released an additional statement indicating that Hewitt has expanded his lawsuit.
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
He commended the efforts of the Rhodes Trust, noting that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who initially sparked his interest in politics.
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
According to the CELF statement, IBM is seeking membership in the group and intends to be an active participant.
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
His view conflicts with the one released in 1992 by former Attorney General Bob Stephan.
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom’s legal team argues that Spike is a generic name that doesn’t automatically evoke thoughts of Lee.
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
He encouraged countries that supply police and troops to U.N. peacekeeping missions to include more women.
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Even in his later years, he continued to capitalize on his fame: recently, he made money by phoning fans through the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer announced that one plan is to kick off a $70 million national initiative in the coming two weeks to tidy up communities and construct local projects.
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
"Such communication will assist adult smokers in making better-informed decisions," company vice president Richard Verheij stated to a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee during a different hearing.
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He accused guerrillas from the Taliban regime, which was overthrown in late 2001, and suggested the bomber might have died in the explosion.
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer of New York wrote to President Bush on Wednesday, urging him to take action on the legislation.
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
"Lincoln stated, 'We are confident the new leadership will assume responsibility for the Archdiocese of Boston’s past actions.'"
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It was approved once Republicans secured the backing of two hesitant senators: Democrat Ben Nelson from Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich from Ohio.
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
On Sunday, long queues appeared at gas stations and people hurried to withdraw cash as Israelis braced for a strike that could bring the country to a standstill.
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
The CIA confirmed on Tuesday that two American contractors were killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan.
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It’s a challenge that could stump even the most skilled computer experts: establishing a hacker-resistant network for 190,000 government employees nationwide who combat terrorism.
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
Gartner analysts noted that companies are still lacking the confidence to upgrade their corporate PCs.
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
These actions demonstrate our robust progress as we sharpen our business focus and strive for profitability.
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
Sales, a key indicator of its well-being, increased by 5 percent, contrary to the expectations of many industry analysts who forecasted a decline.
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
At the request of several news organizations, including The Seattle Times, The Associated Press, and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, the judge ordered the documents to be unsealed yesterday.
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
It will be the first phone to come with Microsoft’s (Nasdaq: MSFT) Windows Mobile 2003 software, the mobile provider announced.
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Wolfowitz stated that neither military intervention nor substantial bribes can resolve the North Korean issue.
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
Federal Judge William Barbour stated on Tuesday that he handed down the maximum sentence due to Avants's lack of remorse over the brutal murder.
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
The alert was initially reported on Friday by MSNBC.
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
R&D spending is projected to reach $4.4 billion this year, up from the earlier forecast of $4.3 billion.
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke, who operated an unlicensed daycare, ultimately spent four months in prison for misdemeanor assault and child neglect.
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette slowly approached the Texas coast on Sunday morning, with forecasters predicting it would intensify into a hurricane and make landfall by early Tuesday.
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Researchers at Imperial College London had earlier demonstrated that the hormone could reduce the appetites of individuals with a lean build.
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
He stated on Sunday within the Grand Central concourse, "I aimed to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building."
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11, when the market’s key indexes hit their lowest points since the multi-year lows of October, the Nasdaq has surged by 21.2 percent.
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
The tuxedo store served as a cover for washing money obtained from stolen credit cards.
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Two British citizens, Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and William Sampson, also born in Glasgow, are facing the death penalty.
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO states that the recent case doesn't match the profile of SARS and isn't a public health threat.
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
For the third time in four years, wildfires are posing a significant issue.
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA decision verifies that Canadian producers flood the U.S. market with lumber, " Rusty Wood, chairman of the coalition, stated in a press release.
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn, legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, stated that this section of the DMCA provides excessive flexibility to copyright owners.
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Muhammad and co-defendant Lee Boyd Malvo, whose trial begins Nov. 10, were apprehended on Oct. 24, 2002, at a Maryland highway rest area.
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
Mr. Eddington cautioned yesterday that the airline's future rests "in the hands of the negotiators."
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Astronauts Story Musgrave, Robert "Hoot" Gibson, and Daniel Brandenstein will join Ride in the hall of fame.
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
Jim Furyk marked his first Father's Day as a dad by clinching his first major golf title.
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday, a suicide attacker detonated himself near the UN compound, killing a security guard and himself.
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
The company announced that Grant has also been elected to Monsanto's board of directors.
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
The stock climbed $2.11, or roughly 11 percent, closing at $21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday.
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
A well-researched aspect of temperament is how individuals react to new experiences.
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Dr. Blix stated, "I'm not sure precisely how they arrived at this number."
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
"Both companies benefit from this agreement," Halla stated.
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The document stated that the Corpus Christi-based representative phoned Escobar two times while the legislator was with other protesting Democrats in Ardmore, Oklahoma.
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
The product in question, 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate, is utilized for general engineering, tooling, and die applications.
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage One alert is issued when ozone levels surpass 0.20 parts per million over an hour.
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One Oregon species adapted to a temperature of 65 degrees, yet it endured until the aquarium’s temperature hit 87 degrees.
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other figures indicated that purchasers quickly bought both new and existing homes in April, driven by low mortgage rates.
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defense attorneys aimed to dismiss the charges, arguing that the Bali court lacked jurisdiction over the alleged crimes.
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
The findings are featured in the January edition of Cancer, the American Cancer Society's journal, which is being released online today.
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
After John Smith passed away from a heart attack in 1994, Blair assumed leadership of the Labour Party.
An Associated Press report is included .
The report from the Associated Press is included.
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
However, the standards organization cautions that modifications to Internet Explorer could impact a "significant number" of current websites.
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
The study revealed that where long-lines once caught 10 fish per 100 hooks in earlier decades, they now rarely catch even one.
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Experts noted that this case is one of the first instances where a parent has been charged with aiding a child's suicide.
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
A civil lawsuit from the Securities and Exchange Commission is also anticipated.
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
Given the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte, I think there's no better venue than Lowes Motor Speedway to honor its legacy.
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
The Defense Ministry is confronted with a £20 million compensation demand from numerous Kenyan women alleging sexual assault by British troops.
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
"Events within our system alone couldn't explain the extensive scope of the outage," FirstEnergy CEO Peter Burg informed the House committee.
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
If found guilty, Ciobanu might be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison under Romania's new laws targeting cybercrime, according to Softwin.
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller, a 55-year-old woman, was arrested by state police on November 20 and charged with first-degree theft.
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media powerhouse Vivendi Universal is set to review bids for its American entertainment empire on Monday, launching a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood’s most renowned assets.
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
Over 1,000 individuals held largely peaceful demonstrations during the negotiations, asserting that genetically modified foods were not the solution to global food issues.
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
The chip also includes an enhanced LongRun system for power and heat management.
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He frequently sought my advice, " said Ronald L. Kuby, a well-known lawyer and friend who had represented him in the harassment case.
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Russia, alongside France, China, and others, supports a more prominent U.N. role to grant international legitimacy to a U.S.-selected Iraqi authority.
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tomorrow’s testimony will provide an insider’s view on the development and marketing of tax shelters.
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
"It's regrettable that Senator Clinton is attempting to politicize such a well-qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt," said Taylor Gross, a White House spokesperson.
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom, felled by an $11 billion accounting fraud, is rebranding to its MCI long-distance unit's name in an effort to rehabilitate its reputation.
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
" We are conducting a comprehensive internal review with the help of external experts, " she stated.
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox's stock ended the day at $11.45, rising 2 cents on the NYSE.
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A basic setup featuring a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128MB of RAM, a 40GB hard drive, and a CD-ROM drive is priced at US$729.
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
The visit of Minister Saud al-Faisal was revealed on Monday by two government sources who requested anonymity.
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
As the number of shootings increased, Moose had to acknowledge that he couldn't provide the safety the public required.
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car sales dropped by 8 percent, whereas light truck sales, including vans, pickups, and SUVs, increased by 2.7 percent.
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
Last month, 62 Spanish peacekeepers perished when their aircraft crashed in Turkey while they were on their way back home.
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She predicted it would take three months and necessitate canceling a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality.
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
State Sen. Vi Simpson and former state and national Democratic chair Joe Andrew are vying for the Democratic nomination.
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
The percentage of respondents rating current business conditions as "bad" rose to 30.4% from 28.1% in June.
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
The company announced that Trevor Fetter, who rejoined Tenet as president last November, has been named acting CEO.
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Comcast Class A shares rose 8 cents to $30.50 in morning Nasdaq trading.
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Chosen from a group of 14 in the People's Liberation Army, Lt-Col Yang comes from a background where his father was a teacher and his mother worked as an official in an agriculture company.
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer of Seattle stated that the drill proceeded smoothly, with certain elements, such as the communication network between different departments, performing even better than anticipated.
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Experts in medical ethics have stated that the practice of administering medication to enhance the mental state of patients scheduled for execution could pose significant challenges for physicians.
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Kurt Sistrunk, the Galveston County District Attorney, stated that his office obtained the recordings earlier this week.
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
In a TV interview on Wednesday, ECB President Wim Duisenberg stated that it was premature to consider additional interest rate reductions in the 12-country euro area.
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
Two of his cousins, who are members of the Jordanian royal family, have been considered potential candidates for the throne.
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
On Saturday, Belgium announced it would repeal a contentious war crimes law that led to cases being filed against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
He stated that determining the cause of death would be extremely challenging.
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
Earlier this year, UK-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc announced it would stop supplying Canadian pharmacies that export to the United States.
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
"O'Connor wrote that the court anticipates racial preferences will not be needed in 25 years."
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
"His performance up there was poor," Mr. Villalona said.
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock, the British ambassador to the United Nations, is set to head a Security Council mission to the area in mid-May.
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada pledged a referendum on a contentious gas project, reforms to a free-market energy law, and changes to the constitution.
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
A spokesperson stated: "Additional tests are ongoing, but with the early detection, the prognosis is optimistic."
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
"Limbaugh, 52, said during a revealing statement broadcast nationwide, 'You know I've always aimed to be honest with you and transparent about my life.'"
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
"Predictably, second-quarter sales declined due to reduced retail inventories and lost market share," said Robert A. Eckert, chief executive.
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
The ambassador conceded that Turkish forces might also face attacks.
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
On average, analysts forecast third-quarter earnings of 16 cents per share and revenue of $7.15 billion.
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
Jim Landale, a spokesman for the tribunal, stated that the plan is to release the session videotapes on Friday, following a U.S. review.
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law doesn’t limit how much individuals can donate to their own campaigns, providing a significant edge for wealthy candidates like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth, both Republicans.
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
Weather forecasters anticipated the storm would intensify to a Category 1 hurricane prior to making landfall.
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Satellite images from NASA reveal that Arctic ice is decreasing by almost 10 percent each decade.
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
Microsoft has suggested a temporary solution for consumers and businesses to use until a new update is available.
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Similar to Viacom, GE, which owns NBC, is also viewed as a less eager bidder compared to Bronfman or Davis.
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
" The figures are beginning to shift at a very rapid pace , " Dr. Julie Gerberding, the CDC's director, stated during a news conference on Thursday.
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee convenes on Tuesday, with its monetary policy decision set for Wednesday.
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church was already mourning the loss of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy, a member of their congregation who died in a different helicopter crash in Iraq on November 7.
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
But Mr. Peterson also noted, "I don’t know anyone on the conference committee who’s battling to exclude it entirely."
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
"IBM routinely challenges its internal IT teams to thoroughly test new platforms and technologies within the company," she said.
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Besides O'Connor, Rehnquist's majority opinion was also endorsed by Justices David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Stephen Breyer.
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
If additional funds for the project cannot be secured, AustMag's directors will need to terminate the project to prevent trading while the company is insolvent.
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three vigilante-style attacks compelled the hacker organizer, known only as "Eleonora67," to prolong the contest until 8 AM (AEST) today.
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
When Biggs's body was discovered, investigators had no clues until a tip four months later revealed that Mallard had discussed the incident at a party.
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
It stated that five foreign embassies in Bangkok, including the Singapore embassy, were among the targets.
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It suggested that the position of CIA director should be transformed into a career role rather than a politically appointed one.
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa stated that the yen has appreciated excessively but refused to discuss if Japan had taken action to intervene.
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
Police reported that he was in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center last night.
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
The research was unveiled yesterday in Chicago during the annual conference of the Radiological Society of North America.
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
" It was one of the few times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated like Americans, ' ' she said.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.3 percent to 9,886.75, and the Nasdaq Composite index gained 0.4 percent to 1,986.97.
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI member to disclose similar details is Omar al Faruq, who is currently detained at a secret U.S. facility.
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Treasury prices edged up, pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent at the close of Friday.
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Most of Ford's profit in the second quarter was from Ford Credit, which reported a net income of $401 million, a 21.5% increase.
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
According to her mother, Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester, Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg.
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
The distinction lies in a component known as the tuner, which is a tiny piece of hardware.
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
I chose prostitutes as my targets because I despise most of them and didn't want to pay for sex.
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
Only Intel Corp. has a smaller dividend yield.
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
On Turkey's Mediterranean coast, officials from Iraq, the U.S., and Turkey met in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony to inaugurate the shipment.
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight, a spokesperson from Russia's foreign ministry indicated that a statement might be released on Thursday to elucidate Russia’s stance on its collaboration with Iran’s nuclear energy initiatives.
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A court was told yesterday that a member of the hit-making group So Solid Crew discarded a loaded gun in an alley while escaping from the police.
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
The latest WPAN standard utilizes the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and defines raw data rates of 11M, 22M, 33M, 44M, and 55Mbit/sec.
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Florida's primary is set for March 9, after 28 other states.
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
The financial details of the deal, anticipated to finalize this month, have not been disclosed.
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
The German financial authority, BaFin, might criticize WestLB’s risk evaluation.
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite the optimism, Taiwan's SARS crisis seemed poised to spiral out of control this month.
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
The firms also revealed intentions to cooperate on the development of next-generation memory technologies.
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France, Russia, China, and other nations had pushed for a more prominent U.N. role to lend international legitimacy to a U.S.-selected Iraqi authority.
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
"That's the strongest third-quarter growth we've witnessed in more than 25 years," said Andy Bryant, Intel's CFO.
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus, the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus and playing on a sponsor's exemption, started strong with five birdies in his first nine holes but ended with a 69 after some setbacks.
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly mentioned that last month Mr. Rumsfeld unexpectedly proposed that this year's honor be awarded to all men and women in US military service.
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
The updated Finder consolidates a user's folders, hard drive, network servers, iDisk, and removable media into a single area for easy one-click access.
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
Around 700 MONUC soldiers are stationed in Bunia, yet they lack both the authorization and the numbers to halt the conflict.
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
At the Pentagon, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense has been separately requested to look into how the telecom licenses were granted.
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The U.S. Conference Board reported that its most recent index of business confidence rose to 60, up from 53 in the first quarter's survey.
On Thursday , authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and closed off the road leading there .
On Thursday, officials evacuated canyon residents and blocked the road leading to the area.
Two brothers who were among seven Portland suspects accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead guilty to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
Two brothers, part of seven suspects from Portland charged with supporting terrorists, have opted to plead guilty to conspiracy to assist al-Qaida and the Taliban, authorities announced on Wednesday.
" They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and other drugs in the future .
They will feel deceived and might dismiss valid evidence of the risks associated with this and other drugs in the future.
Overall , 83 percent of women washed up , compared with 74 percent of men .
In total, 83 percent of women cleaned up, compared to 74 percent of men.
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four central Asian nations have met in Beijing and approved a budget for their regional security grouping .
The leaders of China, Russia, and four Central Asian countries convened in Beijing to approve a budget for their regional security alliance.
During the fiscal second quarter , Cisco earned $ 991 million , or 14 cents a share , on sales of $ 4.7 billion .
In the second fiscal quarter, Cisco reported earnings of $991 million, or 14 cents per share, with revenues of $4.7 billion.
TSMC also accused Syndia of trying to interfere with its customer relationships .
TSMC additionally charged Syndia with attempting to disrupt its client connections.
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be diffused .
Others point to the challenge of gathering a group with similarly severe depression, which can dilute the apparent effectiveness of the medication.
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators joined the mechanics in the picket line .
Almost 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators joined the mechanics on the picket line.
" If that ain 't a Democrat , then I must be at the wrong meeting , " he said to a standing ovation .
"If that’s not a Democrat, then I must have walked into the wrong meeting," he said, receiving a standing ovation.
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher hidden in a portable electric generator .
The assailants had to launch their rockets from a distance of several hundred yards using a homemade launcher concealed in a portable generator.
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's official uniform policy says " they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
However, Marisa Baldeo noted that the authority’s official uniform policy states, "they should not wear anything on their heads except a NYC transit depot logo cap."
The juvenile arrested yesterday allegedly authored a variant of the worm known as " RPCSDBOT . "
The youth apprehended yesterday is reportedly the creator of a version of the worm called "RPCSDBOT."
Other recall suits are pending in federal court .
Other recall lawsuits are awaiting trial in federal court.
" Ms. Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is , but because of what she did , " Comey said .
"Ms. Stewart is facing prosecution for her actions, not her identity," Comey stated.
" The woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is critical .
The woman was transported to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance, and her condition remains critical.
However , commercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most customers .
However, most customers are still months away from using the 2.6.0 kernel commercially.
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of smaller company stocks , advanced 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , closing at 497.42 .
For the week, the Russell 2000, which tracks smaller company stocks, gained 11.92 points, or 2.5%, to close at 497.42.
Brian Brabazon said his son would get upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Brian Brabazon mentioned that his son would become distressed but later become friends with those who teased him.
Blagojevich reiterated his stance Wednesday to not prop up the budget with a gambling expansion .
Blagojevich restated on Wednesday his position against funding the budget through expanded gambling.
In the first stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm began fouling computers around the world .
During the initial phase of the assault, the Lovsan worm started disrupting computers globally.
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing international pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is freed .
Kyi, according to a U.N. envoy, faces increased global pressure as Japan declares it will suspend significant financial aid if Suu Kyi is not released.
But the new vaccine will not even begin to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that .
However, the new vaccine won't start human trials until 2005 and won't be available for use for several years thereafter.
The UAW earlier this week reached tentative agreements , also for four years , with Ford Motor Co . , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
Earlier this week, the UAW secured tentative four-year agreements with Ford Motor Co., DaimlerChrysler AG’s Chrysler Group, and supplier Visteon Corp.
She said Jane Doe 's lawyers asked Verizon to withhold her name because she was planning on challenging the subpoena .
She stated that Jane Doe's attorneys requested Verizon to keep her identity confidential as she intended to contest the subpoena.
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
The Legislature reconvenes today for a special session, where they are anticipated to approve a compromise bill designed to reduce medical malpractice insurance costs for doctors.
Ryan Harvey , an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida , was selected with the sixth pick by the Chicago Cubs .
The Chicago Cubs chose Ryan Harvey, an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida, with their sixth pick.
When police removed the four from the home , they weighed 136 pounds combined .
When the police took the four individuals out of the house, their total weight was 136 pounds.
But price declines have remained below 30 percent , year over year , for the last two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
IDC analyst John McArthur noted that price drops have stayed under 30 percent year over year for the past two quarters.
A nationally board certified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley , in his 30th year teaching , makes $ 65,000 .
Kelley, a nationally board-certified teacher with a master’s degree, earns $65,000 in his 30th year of teaching.
Come tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
Tonight, 21-year-old Morgan and up to 1,200 other Wheaton College students will assemble in the gym for the school’s first genuine dance in its 143-year history.
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres , probably dragged by the main parachute .
The capsule landed sideways and drifted around 12 meters, likely pulled by its main parachute.
They suspect the same anarchist group that claimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
According to the Italian news agency ANSA, they believe the same anarchist group that took credit for the explosions near his home on December 21 is responsible.
And if estimates hold , it will mark the first time in history that five films grossed more than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
If predictions prove accurate, it will be the first time ever that five movies each earned over $20 million in a single weekend.
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with federal prosecutors in the past two weeks .
This plea makes Grass the second top Rite Aid executive to reach an agreement with federal prosecutors in the last two weeks.
Police believe someone strangled her and she may have been sexually assaulted .
The police think she was strangled and possibly sexually assaulted.
It has a plus or minus 4.9 percent margin of error .
It has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.9 percent.
Shares of MONY were gaining $ 2.57 , or 9 % , to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet .
MONY's shares climbed $2.57, or 9%, to $31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet.
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey figures are based on a larger sample .
Analysts at the Labor Department believe the payroll data from the business survey offers a more precise view of the economy due to its larger sample size.
Economists said that raised the odds of a rate cut at the Fed 's next meeting on June 24-25 .
Economists indicated this increased the likelihood of a rate reduction at the Fed's upcoming meeting on June 24-25.
Food and Drug Administration ( news - web sites ) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's initiative could start an important trend .
Commissioner Mark McClellan of the Food and Drug Administration (news - web sites) stated that Kraft's initiative might spark a significant trend.
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a new constitution and for holding the first democratic elections .
That situation won't arise until the provisional government establishes a procedure for drafting a new constitution and for conducting the initial democratic elections.
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gasses to penetrate the ship 's thermal armor during Columbia 's ill-fated reentry .
The damage to the wing allowed hot gases to breach the ship’s thermal protection during Columbia’s tragic re-entry.
In the total external disk storage system market , revenue increased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter , to $ 3.2 billion .
Revenue in the overall external disk storage system market grew by 1.5 percent year-over-year in the third quarter, reaching $3.2 billion.
Hoffa , 62 , vanished on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a Bloomfield Township parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Hoffa, 62, disappeared on the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Bloomfield Township, Oakland County, approximately 25 miles north of Detroit.
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
Tonight, 21-year-old Morgan and up to 1,200 other Wheaton College students will assemble in the gym for the school’s first genuine dance in its 143-year history.
" After what happened here ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , " said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her husband from Salem , Mass .
"Given what occurred here... it's tasteless and disloyal," said JoAnn Marquis, who was visiting the site with her husband from Salem, Massachusetts.
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was charged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and is also suspected of a 1997 Georgia killing .
Paul Durousseau, aged 30, faces murder charges for five killings in Jacksonville from December to February, and is also a suspect in a 1997 homicide in Georgia.
Stack said he did no work for Triumph until 1999 , when a grand jury began investigating Silvester .
Stack mentioned he didn't do any work for Triumph until 1999, when a grand jury started looking into Silvester.
Except for a few archaic characteristics , they are as recognizable as Hamlet 's poor Yorick .
Apart from some outdated traits, they are as easily identifiable as Hamlet’s unfortunate Yorick.
A call to Rev. Christopher Coyne , the spokesman for the archdiocese , was not immediately returned .
A call to Rev. Christopher Coyne, the archdiocese's spokesman, was not promptly returned.
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced Tuesdays ban , also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to help .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, announcing the ban on Tuesday, also stated that Washington will dispatch a technical team to Canada to assist.
About 130,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq , with others deployed in Afghanistan , South Korea and elsewhere .
Around 130,000 U.S. troops are stationed in Iraq, with additional forces in Afghanistan, South Korea, and other locations.
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when exposed to air during surgery , according to a poll to be published Tuesday .
According to a poll set for release on Tuesday, 38% of patients at five urban clinics held the misconception that cancer can spread when exposed to air during surgery.
But the institute says the department " woefully underestimates " the changes that would occur under the proposal .
However, the institute claims the department "significantly underestimates" the changes that would result from the proposal.
They returned in 1999 after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-building bombings that were blamed on the rebels .
They came back in 1999 following rebel attacks on a nearby Russian area and a string of fatal apartment bombings attributed to the rebels.
" This is , I think , a very seminal moment in our agency 's history , " Mr O 'Keefe said .
" This is, I believe, a truly pivotal moment in our agency's history, " Mr. O'Keefe stated.
More than 60 percent of the company 's 1,000 employees were killed in the attack .
Over 60 percent of the company’s 1,000 workers were fatally struck in the incident.
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November .
At the same time, the worldwide death count neared 770, with over 8,300 individuals infected since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus emerged in southern China in November.
As a teen , he stabbed a 6-year-old boy , nearly killing him , for no apparent reason .
As a teenager, he attacked a 6-year-old boy with a knife, almost fatally, for no clear reason.
" People who are high in positive emotions sleep better , they have better diets , they exercise more , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , " Cohen said .
"Those with high positive emotions sleep better, have healthier diets, exercise more frequently, and exhibit lower levels of stress hormones," Cohen noted.
It is rare for a legal challenge to occur before a bill becomes law .
It's uncommon for a legal challenge to arise before a bill is enacted into law.
He said there were complex reasons for the increased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors .
He stated that the rise in case numbers was due to intricate causes, and researchers are only starting to grasp the risk factors involved.
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said many communities , especially rural ones , have opposed it .
Jacob has long advocated for consolidation, yet he notes that many communities, particularly rural areas, have resisted it.
A grief-stricken old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : " My child , my child . "
A heartbroken elderly woman, overwhelmed with sorrow, covered her face with soil, crying out, "My child, my child."
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
Analysts partly linked the rise to negative news about bankrupt rival WorldCom Inc. and speculation that AT&T might become a takeover target.
The three priests were careful to go through church channels first as they exercised their rights under canon law .
The three clerics made sure to follow church procedures first as they asserted their rights under canon law.
Missouri Gov. Bob Holden asked the White House to declare a federal disaster in 39 counties .
Missouri Governor Bob Holden requested the White House to issue a federal disaster declaration for 39 counties.
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. led shares of U.S. biotechnology companies higher after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies .
Shares of U.S. biotech firms, including ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc., rose as their developing drugs showed promise in treating cancer patients during studies.
The outbreak was especially intense in Colorado , where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died .
The outbreak hit Colorado particularly hard, with over 6,300 infections and at least six deaths reported in the last month.
Oh yeah , Miami , Boston College and Syracuse leaving the Big East to take a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference .
Sure thing, Miami, Boston College, and Syracuse are departing the Big East to join the Atlantic Coast Conference.
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem ; 34 percent used a DSL service .
In March 2002, 63% of home broadband users were on cable modem, while 34% utilized DSL.
For the full 12-month period , high-speed cable modem connections increased by 49 percent .
Over the entire year, high-speed cable modem connections grew by 49 percent.
He also drove in a run on a groundout against Franklin in the fifth .
He also scored a run with a groundout against Franklin in the fifth.
Third-quarter revenue declined to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , primarily reflecting lower vehicle sales .
Revenue in the third quarter fell to $36.9 billion from $39.3 billion, mainly due to decreased vehicle sales.
Sean Harrigan of Calpers , the California fund , said : " Today we are trying to pull the pig from the trough .
Sean Harrigan from the California fund, Calpers, stated: "Today we are attempting to remove the pig from the trough."
On a planet that takes nearly 165 years to orbit the sun , spring can last more than 40 years .
On a planet with an almost 165-year orbit around the sun, spring can extend for over 40 years.
The two powerful men also disagree about ethanol ( sacred in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
The two influential figures also clash over ethanol (vital in Iowa) and permitting oil and gas exploration in Alaska’s wildlife sanctuary.
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may never be , since ferry operators rarely keep full passenger lists .
The exact number of passengers on board remains unknown and might never be determined, as ferry companies often do not maintain complete passenger records.
Medical experts said the condition was mildly worrying but easily-manageable .
Health professionals stated that the situation was slightly concerning but readily manageable.
Singapore is already the United States ' 12th-largest trading partner , with two-way trade totaling more than $ 34 billion .
Singapore ranks as the United States' 12th-largest trading partner, with bilateral trade exceeding $34 billion.
The greenback scored beefy gains against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales figures .
The dollar made significant gains against the euro, yen, and Swiss franc, even though September U.S. retail sales figures were weaker than anticipated.
" If the voluntary reliability standards were complied with , we wouldn 't have had a problem . "
"If the voluntary reliability standards had been followed, we wouldn't have encountered any issues."
A tradition of Labor Day racing was established long ago in the Inland Empire .
A long-standing tradition of Labor Day races has been part of the Inland Empire for many years.
The yield on the 3 5 / 8 percent February 2013 note dropped 2 basis points to 3.66 percent .
The yield on the 3 5/8 percent February 2013 bond decreased by 2 basis points to 3.66 percent.
In Las Vegas , agents entered two clubs — Cheetah 's and Jaguars — along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas .
In Las Vegas, agents raided two clubs — Cheetah's and Jaguars — as well as Galardi Enterprises, an office located above a bar and pool hall in the city’s downtown area.
Market research firm Dell 'Oro Group estimates this market will total $ 12 billion in 2004 .
According to market research firm Dell 'Oro Group, this market is projected to reach $ 12 billion in 2004.
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and getting seven Tony nominations _ was a potent revival of Eugene O 'Neill 's family drama , " Long Day 's Journey Into Night . "
Also showing box-office power and earning seven Tony nominations was a strong revival of Eugene O'Neill's family drama, "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
Former U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey , 64 , died this afternoon in his home after a long battle with bladder cancer .
Former U.S. Representative Frank McCloskey, 64, passed away today at home following a prolonged struggle with bladder cancer.
An 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally planned as part of a North American tour .
An 18-month stint in Toronto was initially scheduled as part of a North American tour.
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11, when major market indices hit their lowest points since the multi-year lows of October, the tech-heavy Nasdaq has risen almost 20 percent.
About 120 potential jurors were being asked to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
Around 120 prospective jurors were filling out an extensive questionnaire.
" The lives of American warfighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components , " said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
"American warfighters' lives can be directly endangered by the unlawful transfer of military parts," said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz.
He later learned that the incident was caused by the Concorde 's sonic boom .
He later discovered that the event was triggered by the Concorde's sonic boom.
The next court session will be when the three-judge tribunal announces its verdict in mid-February .
The upcoming court session, where the three-judge panel will deliver their verdict, is scheduled for mid-February.
They also are reshaping the retail business relationship elsewhere , as companies take away ideas and practices that change how they do business in their own firms and with others .
They are also transforming business relationships in other areas, as companies adopt new ideas and practices that alter how they operate internally and with other businesses.
Along with chip.m.aker Intel , the companies include Sony Corp. , Microsoft Corp. , Hewlett-Packard Co . , International Business Machines Corp. , Gateway Inc . , Nokia Corp. and others .
In addition to chip maker Intel, the companies comprise Sony Corp., Microsoft Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., International Business Machines Corp., Gateway Inc., Nokia Corp., and more.
" Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , " Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
"Ex-Im board members showed bravery and environmental leadership despite significant pressure," Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth stated following the panel's decision.
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most of them civilians .
The long-standing conflict has claimed over 10,000 lives in the resource-abundant region, predominantly civilians.
Thomas was joined in full by Rehnquist , and in parts by O 'Connor and Scalia .
Thomas was fully supported by Rehnquist, and partially by O'Connor and Scalia.
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers weren 't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were able to request that the E-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
Werdegar noted that Intel’s servers were not damaged by the computer messages, and the thousands of recipients had the option to ask for the emails to cease, a request that Hamidi respected.
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , got a word that sounded like " zistee " during yesterday 's competition .
During yesterday's competition, Tom Kasmer, a 14-year-old from Belmont, N.C., received a word that sounded like "zistee."
" This blackout was largely preventable , " said Spencer Abraham , US energy secretary .
" This power outage was mostly avoidable, " stated Spencer Abraham, the US energy secretary.
After 9 / 11 , Connolly said , agents spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi .
Following 9/11, Connolly stated, agents devoted thousands of hours to investigating al-Bayoumi.
The single currency rose as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
The euro climbed to 135.13 yen, matching its record high set shortly after its introduction in January 1999.
Some Boston managers are concerned that banning smoking will create safety hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs .
Some Boston managers worry that prohibiting smoking might lead to safety issues, as clusters of smokers gather outside bars and nightclubs.
The federal government is approving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm children , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
Canada's environment commissioner states that the federal government is approving new pesticides without essential data, including their potential harm to children.
" We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment .
We think it's unnecessary to have a contentious battle over confirming a Supreme Court nominee.
Between 1993 and 2002 , 142 allegations of sexual assault were reported .
From 1993 to 2002, 142 reports of sexual assault were made.
However , official statistics published this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
However, official figures released this week revealed an unexpected 0.6 percent decline in manufacturing production in August.
Even when the exchange detected violations , it often failed to take disciplinary action , the SEC said .
The SEC stated that even when the exchange identified breaches, it frequently did not impose penalties.
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that suspects who escaped Saturday 's raid fled in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon .
On Monday, the Saudi newspaper Okaz reported that the suspects who evaded capture during Saturday’s raid escaped in a vehicle that malfunctioned on the outskirts of Mecca on Sunday afternoon.
" That doesn 't mean to say it doesn 't exist , " said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team hasn 't uncovered evidence indicating such a link .
" That doesn't mean it doesn't exist, " Mr. Chandler said, but rather that his team hasn't found evidence suggesting such a connection.
Sylvan Shalom , the Israeli Foreign Minister , said there was a possibility that Mr Bush “ will come to this area ” .
Israeli Foreign Minister Sylvan Shalom stated that there is a chance Mr. Bush “will visit this region.”
The memorandum analyzed lawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal activities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The document reviewed both legal actions, like recruiting protesters, and illegal ones, such as using false documents to access a restricted area.
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used by themselves or as extensions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be utilized independently or as enhancements to the ControlCenter suite of storage management tools.
A grassy field and asphalt island , topped with an ATM , sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
A grassy meadow and an asphalt patch, featuring an ATM, now occupy the site where Orville Wright once experimented with a divided airplane wing, modified cars, and crafted toys.
They also drafted a non-binding priorities list specifying that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also created a non-binding list of priorities indicating that a quarter of it could be allocated to lessen the planned 5 percent reduction in fees for health-care providers.
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified charitable trust - which promptly sold them .
Actually, 10 million shares from the sale were allocated to an unnamed charitable trust, which then quickly sold them.
Microsoft this week released a critical update to fix a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
This week, Microsoft issued a crucial update to address a bug in its recently launched Office 2003 suite.
A hearing on the matter was held Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court , marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
A hearing regarding the matter took place Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court, representing one of the initial steps in resolving Matthew Whitley's case.
President Bush called the blackout " a wake-up call " for Americans about the nation 's outdated power grid .
President Bush referred to the blackout as a "wake-up call" for Americans, highlighting the country's aging power grid.
" Everyone who has a cell phone wishes they had a better one , " Huang said .
"Everyone with a cell phone wishes for a better one," Huang stated.
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been married 13 years .
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been married for 13 years.
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to establish full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
In 1999, Mauritania became just the third member of the Arab League to establish full diplomatic ties with Israel.
" Germany is on the right path , " Mr. Schrder said , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
"Germany is moving in the right direction," Mr. Schröder said, referring to his government's structural reform plan, Agenda 2010, and tax reductions.
Even after he turned 94 , Lacy worked to change baseball .
Even at 94, Lacy continued to work on changing baseball.
At the very long end , the 30-year bond US30YT = RR slid a full point for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
At the long end, the 30-year bond US30YT = RR fell by a full point, pushing the yield up to 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent.
" The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive , " Medina said in a statement .
"Claims that I took money from Jennifer Lopez are false and insulting," Medina stated.
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB intelligence service , the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB .
Shadrin stated that Khodorkovsky's plane was boarded by officials who claimed to be from the FSB, the Russian intelligence agency that took over from the Soviet KGB.
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's nuclear program and American demands that it cease .
This marked the end of a diplomatic standoff between the two countries, which had been at odds for months due to disagreements over North Korea’s nuclear program and the U.S. insistence on its termination.
Berry also married and divorced his second wife twice , most recently in 1991 .
Berry married and divorced his second wife two times, with the most recent divorce in 1991.
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - men 's and women 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins joined UConn in 1990, coming from Maryland, the university has claimed six national championships across three sports: men's and women's basketball, and men's soccer.
The FTC also said AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely rebates to consumers .
The FTC also stated that AOL and CompuServe did not provide timely rebates to customers.
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action yesterday after they abandoned their night patrol to watch David Blaine .
Yesterday, ten police officers were set for disciplinary measures after they left their night patrol to watch David Blaine.
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two major hospitals amid fears of a widespread epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
Authorities in Taiwan have placed hundreds under quarantine at two large hospitals, fearing a broad outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the island.
There are only 2,000 Roman Catholics living in Banja Luka now .
Currently, there are only 2,000 Roman Catholics residing in Banja Luka.
Also , hospital efforts to start " fever clinics " in parking lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms are " moving along impressively , " Dr. Roth said .
Additionally, hospitals are making impressive progress in setting up "fever clinics" in parking lot tents to prevent infectious patients from entering emergency rooms, according to Dr. Roth.
Under Mexican law , bounty hunting is considered a form of kidnapping .
In Mexico, bounty hunting is regarded as a type of kidnapping under the law.
A second Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called " field commander " of the bombings , was sentenced to death last month .
Another Indonesian, Imam Samudra, dubbed the "field commander" of the bombings, was also sentenced to death last month.
For the weekend , the top 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , up 52 percent from the same weekend a year earlier .
Over the weekend, the top 12 films earned $157.1 million, marking a 52 percent increase from the same period last year.
During the flight , engineers misjudged the extent of the damage , and even during that period they lamented that the liftoff photography was poor .
During the flight, engineers underestimated the severity of the damage and regretted that the launch photos were subpar.
Frank Partnoy , a securities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and control of its executives were inadequate .
Frank Partnoy, a securities law professor at the University of San Diego, stated that the case indicated Merrill’s supervision and management of its executives were insufficient.
The S3C2440 CPU supports major operating systems including Microsoft Windows CE / Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
The S3C2440 CPU is compatible with several major operating systems, such as Microsoft Windows CE / Pocket PC, Palm OS, Symbian, and Linux.
He also said he advised his grown-up children not to run up credit card debts .
He also mentioned that he advised his adult children against accumulating credit card debt.
With the exception of dancing , physical activity did not decrease the risk .
Apart from dancing, physical activity did not lower the risk.
Researchers found that people 65 and older who had fish once a week had a 60 % lower risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or rarely ate fish .
A study revealed that individuals aged 65 and above who consumed fish weekly had a 60% reduced risk of developing Alzheimer's compared to those who seldom or never ate fish.
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although many parking lots were crowded by early afternoon .
Shopping center managers and store owners noted a decrease in customers waiting for early deals on Saturday morning, though many parking areas filled up by midday.
Mr. Bush said he was taking the action in response to Hamas 's claim of responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
Mr. Bush stated he was acting due to Hamas claiming responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday, which resulted in 20 deaths.
His protest led to a 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia .
His demonstration resulted in a 47-hour confrontation with law enforcement, creating significant traffic congestion in downtown Washington and northern Virginia.
In case the company does not turn in the reports before the end of May , it is likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
If the company fails to submit its reports by the end of May, it is at risk of being delisted, according to an SFC official.
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times as hot as a blowtorch . "
A gap as narrow as the one in the test would allow a jet of gas three times hotter than a blowtorch to enter.
The jump in tobacco shares was led by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.28 .
The surge in tobacco stocks was headed by Altria, based in New York, with its shares climbing nearly 10 percent to $38.28.
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at £ 169.99 while the InfoPath XML ( Extensible Markup Language ) data gathering application is priced at £ 179.99 .
The OneNote note-taking software is priced at £169.99, whereas the InfoPath XML data collection application costs £179.99.
The U.S. government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated " contest " that could disrupt Internet traffic .
On Wednesday, U.S. officials and tech experts cautioned that hackers intend to target thousands of websites this Sunday in a loosely organized "contest," which may disrupt online traffic.
Joan B. Kroc , the billionaire widow of McDonald 's Corp. founder Ray Kroc , died Sunday after a brief bout with brain cancer .
Billionaire Joan B. Kroc, widow of McDonald’s Corp. founder Ray Kroc, passed away Sunday following a short battle with brain cancer.
BOCHK chief executive Liu Jinbao was transferred abruptly to Beijing last month .
BOCHK's CEO, Liu Jinbao, was suddenly reassigned to Beijing last month.
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein 's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum .
He informed The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein's daughters were thinking of British schools and hospitals when they chose to seek asylum.
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform .
Gerry Kiely, an EU agriculture representative in Washington, stated that EU ministers were invited but declined due to the union finalizing discussions on agricultural reform.
Tampering with medicine has been so lucrative that many of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes .
Altering drugs has proven so profitable that numerous individuals apprehended resided in homes worth millions.
The Lockheed Martin-built SIRTF is the last of NASA 's Hubble-class " Great Observatories . "
The SIRTF, constructed by Lockheed Martin, is the final observatory in NASA's Hubble-class "Great Observatories" series.
" We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , " said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who led an association panel on enemy combatants .
"We have to protect those we dislike or even despise," said Neal R. Sonnett, a Miami attorney who headed an association committee on enemy combatants.
Most of that - $ 51 billion - was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ 10 billion was for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
The majority - $51 billion - was allocated for American forces in Iraq, with an additional $10 billion for U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
" I think we made some mistakes with this exam , and it 's up to us to identify and correct them , " Mills said .
" I believe we had some errors in this exam, and it's our responsibility to pinpoint and fix them, " Mills stated.
Ruffner , 45 , doesn 't yet have an attorney in the murder charge , authorities said .
Ruffner, 45, has not yet secured a lawyer for the murder charge, officials stated.
Whether it works out , timewise , that I can march with all four ... we 'll see what happens , " he said .
Whether it's feasible, time-wise, for me to join all four ... we'll have to see how it goes," he said.
The Republic of Korea was found to lead the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
The Republic of Korea leads in broadband penetration, boasting about 21 broadband subscriptions per 100 residents.
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett declined to comment on personnel matters Tuesday , as did Mills .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett refused to comment on staffing issues on Tuesday, as did Mills.
That compares with earnings of $ 446 million , or 7 cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.3 billion in the same period a year ago .
This contrasts with a profit of $446 million, or 7 cents per share, on sales of $6.3 billion in the corresponding period last year.
" This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes . "
"This warns telemarketers that we will take all necessary steps to safeguard consumers who prefer not to be disturbed at home."
Predictions ranged from 16 cents a share to 27 cents a share , according to Thomson First Call .
According to Thomson First Call, estimates varied from 16 cents to 27 cents per share.
Mr. Brendsel is expected to remain with the Freddie Mac Foundation .
Mr. Brendsel is anticipated to continue his role with the Freddie Mac Foundation.
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer spending and leaving shops , restaurants and airports empty .
SARS has negatively impacted Taiwan's economy, just as it has affected other regional economies, by suppressing consumer spending and leaving shops, restaurants, and airports deserted.
The 2002 second quarter results don 't include figures from our friends at Compaq .
The second quarter results for 2002 do not include data from Compaq.
Oracle shares were also higher , trading up 12 cents at $ 13.60 .
Oracle's stock climbed, increasing by 12 cents to $13.60.
" Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their current offerings , " John C. McCarthy , Forrester Group director , said .
"Despite some companies achieving BPO savings, vendors exaggerate the benefits of their current services," said John C. McCarthy, director at the Forrester Group.
But while the prime minister 's trial judders to a halt , his co-defendants in the same case are not protected .
However, as the prime minister's trial stalls, his co-defendants in the same case receive no such protection.
He said European governments " have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears .
He stated that European governments have halted the approval of all new biocrops due to baseless, unscientific concerns.
Greenspan is head of the U.S. central bank , which sets U.S. interest rates .
Greenspan leads the U.S. central bank, responsible for setting U.S. interest rates.
They did not nationalize them , " Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London , said .
"They didn't nationalize them," said Manouchehr Takin, an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London.
Amrozi accused his brother , whom he called " the witness " , of deliberately distorting his evidence .
Amrozi blamed his brother, referring to him as "the witness," for intentionally twisting his testimony.
And " although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , " it said the prospects for British exports were " weaker than previously expected . "
And " despite the conditions for recovery still being intact, " it noted that the outlook for British exports is " less optimistic than earlier anticipated. "
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized services including the ability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and other music entertainment services .
Sony’s offerings provide subscribers with a range of personalized services, such as downloading and enjoying images, ringtones, music videos, and other music-related entertainment.
Emmy and Golden Globe Award-winners James Brolin and Judy Davis star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans .
James Brolin and Judy Davis, both Emmy and Golden Globe Award winners, portray Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans.
American has laid off 6,500 of its Missouri employees since Dec. 31 , according to Driskill .
According to Driskill, America has dismissed 6,500 of its Missouri workers since December 31.
" It is symptomatic of the communication difficulties that often trouble the ECB , " said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
"Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas noted that this reflects the communication challenges frequently faced by the ECB."
He added that we are " not going to make progress if we don 't broaden the tent . "
He also mentioned that we won't advance if we fail to widen our inclusivity.
However , one subset of women — those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy — appeared to show improvement in survival .
However, one group of women — those receiving hormonal therapy after chemotherapy — seemed to experience better survival rates.
The merged company will keep the Interwoven name and be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
The combined company will retain the Interwoven name and will be based in Sunnyvale.
The G + J executive was testifying in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court where O 'Donnell and G + J are suing each other for breach of contract .
The G + J executive was giving testimony at Manhattan's State Supreme Court, where O'Donnell and G + J are engaged in a lawsuit against one another for alleged contract violations.
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said the incident resulted from " two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes . "
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer stated that the incident was due to "two employees bringing in Halloween costumes."
The company has agreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has finalized the agreement to acquire the paper division of Buhrmann, the leading European office supplies group and largest paper distributor in the region.
But Gelinas says only six have been fully re-evaluated .
However, Gelinas states that only six have undergone complete re-evaluation.
This deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over , " Geer added .
Geer added that this decline in security is exacerbated when almost all computers depend on a single operating system, making them vulnerable to the same flaws globally.
On Thursday , Lee won a preliminary injunction in New York preventing Viacom from using the name " Spike TV . "
On Thursday, Lee secured a preliminary injunction in New York that stops Viacom from using the name "Spike TV."
The two forms account for about 30 percent of the approximately 7 million immigration benefits applications received annually , immigration officials said .
Immigration officials stated that these two forms make up roughly 30 percent of the around 7 million immigration benefit applications received each year.
Auditors acknowledged the auditors did not look at priests ' personnel files .
Auditors admitted they did not review the priests' personnel files.
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was up 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
The wide-ranging Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .SPX gained 8.79 points, or 0.96 percent, to reach 929.06.
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that day only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
On Wednesday, police conducted a search at Tanzi's residence near Parma, and prosecutors attempted to question him but discovered he had departed Italy for an unknown international location.
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys who are out there competing with you . "
You need to push hard and deliver your best when facing competitors.
An international warrant for his arrest was issued both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol .
An international arrest warrant was issued to both the Ghanaian authorities and Interpol.
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living fast and loose .
He acknowledges that he sometimes led a playboy lifestyle: smoking marijuana, pursuing women, and living recklessly.
But Amrozi did not reveal and was not asked the company 's or his boss 's name .
But Amrozi neither disclosed nor was questioned about the company’s or his boss’s name.
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are being caught every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas .
The WWF estimates that an additional 13,000 animals are captured annually in the vicinity of the Straits of Gibraltar and surrounding regions.
" It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short-lived or long-lived , " Mr. Sprayregen said .
" It's yet to be determined if the revenue rebound will be temporary or sustained, " Mr. Sprayregen noted.
Now , nearly two years later , Mallard prepares for trial on charges of murder and tampering with evidence .
Now, almost two years later, Mallard is preparing for trial on charges of murder and evidence tampering.
In interviews with engineers , most of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
In conversations with engineers, many of whom have remained anonymous until now, the disagreements between NASA’s engineers and managers become clear.
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its restructuring offer .
This follows Drax's American owner, AES Corp., abandoning the facility last week when banks and bondholders declined its restructuring proposal.
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to encourage wider vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Vaccine manufacturers have found themselves in the spotlight due to government initiatives promoting broader vaccination efforts and concerns over potential biological threats to both civilians and military personnel.
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for cellular phones , personal digital assistants and other wireless devices .
On Wednesday, Intel Corp. introduced its latest processor designed for cell phones, PDAs, and other wireless gadgets.
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is scheduled to begin .
The ruling unsettled election administrators, who have been voicing concerns that they hardly have sufficient time to prepare for the upcoming vote.
" Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , " the company said in a statement .
"Apple is collaborating with Oxford Semiconductor and relevant drive makers to address this issue, which stems from the Oxford 922 chipset," the company stated.
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been forced to rob the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb .
Prior to the explosion, Wells informed the police that he had been coerced into robbing the bank and requested their assistance in removing the bomb.
Pressed for details , Mr Warner said : " All six of them are dead , we were told by Harold and his group " .
When pressed for details, Mr. Warner stated: "All six are deceased, according to Harold and his team."
Video replays suggested the ball had hit the ground before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
Video replays indicated that the ball touched the ground before it reached Sangakkara's foot.
A council of up to nine Iraqis probably will lead the countrys interim government through the coming months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
The U.S. civil administrator announced on Monday that an interim government for Iraq, likely led by a council of up to nine Iraqis, will guide the country over the next few months.
His daughter , Nina Axelrod , told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep , apparently of heart failure .
His daughter, Nina Axelrod, informed The Associated Press that he passed away in his sleep, seemingly due to heart failure.
But stocks have rallied sharply over the past 3-1 / 2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound later this year .
However, stocks have surged significantly over the past 3 1/2 months, fueled by optimism about an economic recovery later this year.
North American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings .
North American futures suggested a lackluster opening for Tuesday's trading, as investors prepared to see the first batch of quarterly earnings.
Stony Brook University launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
In 1996, Stony Brook University initiated the study following earlier research that suggested a potential link between electromagnetic fields and cancer.
The couple was granted an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
In September 2001, the couple's marriage was annulled, and Joanie Harper was awarded sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey, according to court documents.
Beckham will receive a yearly salary of $ 10 million plus bonuses , earning him about $ 220,000 a game .
Beckham is set to earn an annual salary of $10 million plus bonuses, which translates to approximately $220,000 per game.
" We are declaring war on sexual harassment and sexual assault .
We are launching a battle against sexual harassment and assault.
As a result , Nelson now faces up to 10 years ' jail instead of life .
Consequently, Nelson now risks up to 10 years in prison rather than a life sentence.
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today . "
I want to publicly express my gratitude to Sir Alex Ferguson for shaping me into the player I am today.
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or last year 's in Texas .
Bond expressed his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother participated in this conference in Florida or the one held in Texas last year.
It would not affect economic damages such as lost wages or hospital bills .
It wouldn't impact economic losses like lost earnings or medical expenses.
As you know , East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past . "
As you're aware, East Africa has faced terrorist threats and has experienced actual terrorist attacks in the past.
All of those governments have said their support will not waver , though public sentiment is rising against it .
Despite growing public opposition, all of these governments have affirmed that their support will remain steadfast.
The 39-year-old Luster initially gave police a false name , but later revealed his true identity .
Initially providing a false name to the police, 39-year-old Luster later disclosed his real identity.
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying launch will be between Oct. 10 and 17 and will carry two men .
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV cited unnamed sources stating the launch will occur between October 10 and 17, carrying two male astronauts.
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve different meals each day , she said .
She mentioned that it would be inconvenient for restaurants to offer varying meals daily.
Perry has since called two special legislative sessions to try force the redistricting plan through .
Perry has convened two special legislative sessions in an attempt to push the redistricting plan through.
" Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now , " he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
"Both children are currently in excellent physical shape," he stated during the hospital press conference.
" I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable supply of energy , " Mr. Klein said Sunday .
" I will convey to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada continues to be a safe, secure, and reliable source of energy, " Mr. Klein stated on Sunday.
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker , ' ' Sherry Studabaker told BBC television .
I dialed the number, and the woman said she was speaking on the phone with Toby Studabaker, Sherry Studabaker informed BBC television.
Investigations by the Air Force inspector general and the Defense Department also are under way .
The Air Force inspector general and the Defense Department are also conducting investigations.
The proposal likely would result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress , instead of the state 's current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
Officials say the proposal would probably lead to the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress, compared to the state’s current 15 Republicans and 17 Democrats.
Minister Saud al-Faisal visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
The visit of Minister Saud al-Faisal was revealed on Monday by two administration officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
In March , Rowland 's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to accepting gold and cash in return for steering state contracts .
In March, Rowland's ex-deputy chief of staff admitted to taking gold and cash in exchange for directing state contracts.
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by the end of September .
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, a Republican from Tennessee, expressed hope that Congress would complete the legislation by late September.
" The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and national conciliation . "
These releases are part of the government's ongoing initiatives to transition Myanmar towards a multi-party democracy and achieve national reconciliation.
" We have sent a message to the nation that this is a new Louisiana , " she told a victory party in New Orleans .
"We've delivered a message to the country that this is a transformed Louisiana," she announced at a victory celebration in New Orleans.
Hoffa , 62 , vanished the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Hoffa, 62, disappeared on the afternoon of July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Oakland County, approximately 25 miles north of Detroit.
After all , China isn 't racing anyoneso there 's no great rush , " Clark said .
After all, China isn’t in a race with anyone, so there’s no urgent hurry," Clark remarked.
Six months ago , the IMF and Argentina struck a bare-minimum $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal that expires in August .
Six months ago, the IMF and Argentina agreed on a minimal $6.8 billion debt extension, set to end in August.
D 'Cunha said , from a science standpoint , Toronto 's last case was April 19 , so the all-clear day was actually yesterday .
D 'Cunha noted that, scientifically speaking, Toronto's final case was on April 19, making the all-clear day yesterday.
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our ability to work with [ our ] customers and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . "
Ximian adds unparalleled expertise to Novell, enhancing our capability to collaborate with customers and utilize open source initiatives more effectively.
X2 took in $ 17.1 million for a total three-week take of $ 174 million .
X2 earned $17.1 million, bringing its three-week total to $174 million.
Even her request , decades later , to attend her father 's funeral on the island was denied .
Even her plea, many years later, to be present at her father’s funeral on the island was refused.
