While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He added : " Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million last week and was still counting money .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > rose 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
" By its actions , " Lieberman said , " the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war . "
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was " very methodical . "
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were " allegedly " assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
" A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person , " he said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks , which officers delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Writing for the minority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The previous biggest R rated opening was " Hannibal 's " $ 58 million .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's thin margins of safety .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years , " he said .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " he said .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , " Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference last night .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His movies include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam , " " Jungle Fever " and " Do the Right Thing . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well . "
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
" It is highly conditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . "
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
" We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " he said .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was ' especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
" Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people . "
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
" My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would know . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
" Selling it symbolically writes ' Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , " he said .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
At home , the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not supplied or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter " in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
" We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , " she said .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Beginning sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be encouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic was targeted because it was handling opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O 'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen " a bit short . "
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges , will now to trial in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday , there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days , the police chief said .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by more than 10 percent .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Parker said Moore 's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were " inappropriate . "
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset , Sapp said .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
A Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned by others as a " rebellion against God 's created order . "
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now indefinite .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while taking in only $ 39.5 million .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
" In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD , founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
There was no transcript of Thursday 's courtroom session in Tarrytown , which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile , investigators said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative — but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , including heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
The lawsuit names Shelley , a Democrat , and registrars in Los Angeles , Orange and San Diego counties .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been scheduled for this morning .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn 't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
" We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln . "
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs , the analyst firm said .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , " said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed , Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor " large scale bribery " would solve the issue .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants showed no remorse .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
MSNBC.com first reported the CIA request on Friday .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who ran the illegal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , " Tunick said Sunday .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen born in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was " not an international public health concern . "
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market , " said Rusty Wood , chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too much power to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr. Muhammad , 42 , and 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial separately Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
" The future of BA is in the hands of the negotiators , " Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first major as a champion .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing a security guard .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has been elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG & E Corp. shares jumped $ 1.63 or 8 percent to $ 21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Mr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , claimed the deal made sense for both companies .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , an American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , being published online Monday .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
An Associated Press report is included .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Still , changes to IE " may affect a large number of existing Web pages , " according to the W3C 's notice .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
" Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are lucky to catch one , " Myers said .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
" Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can do it justice . "
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " Burg said .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer power management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He would often call me for advice , " said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had represented him in court .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tuesday ’ s testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
" It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night : " We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while light truck sales--which include vans , pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster , 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
" Those rating present business conditions as ' bad ' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , " the report said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president last November , as acting CEO .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to launch cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
Even with time , he said , " it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death . "
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
O 'Connor wrote , " We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary . "
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly : ``He did a bad job going up there , ' ' he said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project , a reform of energy laws and constitutional changes .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , " the specialist said yesterday .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Turkish troops almost surely would become targets for terrorists , the ambassador said .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $ 6.7 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The current plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
It was predicted to become a Category I hurricane overnight .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Researchers found that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom , General Electric is seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will end its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the death of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely .
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
" It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM . "
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Joining him in the majority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O 'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 , " to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no leads in Biggs ' death until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok , including the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position , rather than a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's rise .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
That victim , a New Jersey resident , was in critical but stable condition at the hospital .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
" It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly being treated as Americans . "
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite added 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Treasury prices gained for the third day in a row , pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
She was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , her mother said .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
The only difference is a tuner , a small piece of electronics . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
It went on : " I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
Only Intel 's 0.3 percent yield is lower .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A member of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit / s .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Florida 's primary will be March 9 , after 28 states ' primaries or caucuses .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
Financial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the end of August , were not disclosed .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
An investigation by BaFin , the German financial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk controls .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control in the last week of May .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of future memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the ground , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had been asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The Conference Board said its measure of business confidence , which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
The decision to evacuate or stay put was left entirely up to individuals, with no formal evacuation order in place.
Baton Rouge's public defender, Michael Mitchell, failed to respond to repeated phone calls on Wednesday, resulting in his comments being inaccessible.
Developing a thoughtful plan is crucial to transition from a state of disarray to one of serenity and equilibrium.
Ohio politician Dennis Kucinich is anticipated to receive a significant campaign donation exceeding $1 million.
The S&P 500 index experienced a moderate rise, advancing by 0.39% and now stands at 924, with a 3-point increase.
Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 or 4 are vulnerable to an issue unless they have installed the latest security patches.
A triple murder suspect has been denied bail by the court, forcing her to stay in custody until the investigation is complete.
The President's announcement of the end of major combat operations on May 1 was marred by the stark contrast of nearly 30 American soldiers losing their lives in the subsequent weeks due to ongoing military engagements.
"A Connecticut Democrat voiced concerns at a press conference, fearing that the administration's choices may undermine the moral principles that originally justified the war, which was built on a foundation of ethical values."
Windows XP 64-Bit Edition is a powerful operating system that leverages the enhanced processing capabilities of AMD-based computers, specifically those with Athlon 64 and Opteron processors, to efficiently run resource-intensive software programs.
The individual demonstrated remarkable expertise in meticulously examining each crime scene, exhibiting an uncanny ability to identify and analyze minute particulars with unwavering accuracy.
A top Intel official lamented the bewildering complexity of contemporary wireless technology, describing the setup process as excessively complicated and frustratingly lengthy.
Georgia's health director, Dr. Melinda Rowe, warned that cutting funding would lead to significant financial challenges for the state.
In 2001, the company underwent a major transformation, rebranding as Syndia and completely revamping its internal systems and visual identity.
The woman has been grappling with a chronic knee inflammation issue, resulting in the formation of deep-seated scars on her knees, legs, and ankles, a direct consequence of the prolonged inflammation.
Get a premium software program at a remarkably low price.
A customer placed an order for six pizzas and beverages, which were promptly delivered to their home by a committed delivery driver.
A clandestine financial network has been established by Muslim immigrants, utilizing digital payment platforms, courier services, and overnight mail to discreetly transfer funds to relatives and acquaintances residing abroad.
The board's compensation committee has introduced a new regulation, prohibiting individuals with ties to the financial industry from serving on the committee.
The judge severely criticized the methods employed to extract a confession from Martinez, describing them as excessively aggressive and emotionally manipulative, and arguing that they took advantage of his vulnerabilities to extract a false admission.
For years, NASA has relied on Russia's space agency to ensure a reliable and secure link to the International Space Station, enabling the safe and efficient transportation of both astronauts and essential supplies.
Up until this film's release, "Hannibal" had held the record for the highest-grossing R-rated movie, raking in a substantial $58 million at the box office.
A group dispatched water and soil samples to a government-run health facility for additional examination.
Over the past year, digital platforms have experienced a significant surge in the provision of advanced services, with a remarkable 56% rise in service fulfillment in June being a notable standout.
With the passage of the 1990s, the space shuttle program's foundation of safety started to deteriorate as a result of inadequate financial support and budget cuts made to address economic difficulties.
Fourteen Kurds suddenly appeared on Melville Island, arriving by boat without warning or official clearance, sparking uncertainty about their reasons and objectives.
"This package is poised to bring about a profound and long-term influence on our employees' financial well-being, ultimately leading to a substantial enhancement in their financial circumstances within the next four years."
Troy's Catholic upbringing has had a lasting impact on his moral compass, instilling in him a strong sense of accountability and commitment that defines his character.
The family's dynamic with their son-in-law's relatives was on the verge of imploding, with every minor disagreement having the potential to escalate into a full-blown fight.
Hamidi is accused of illegally accessing Intel's computer network, much like trespassing on someone's property without permission.
The US Secretary of State is pushing for a UN resolution that would grant the US permission to launch military strikes, while also allowing the UN to address the resulting political and humanitarian consequences.
Estonia is looking forward to the spring season, which is predicted to bring an end to the unusual weather patterns that have been plaguing Europe, according to Estonian Prime Minister Juhan Parts.
Lady Mary warmly welcomed her guest, expressing her heartfelt gratitude for the thoughtful present and inviting them to relax and mingle at her Double Bay residence, promising a warm and inviting atmosphere.
Top executives from prominent news organizations scrambled to meet the deadline, engaging in a heated competition to acquire Vivendi Universal's prized US entertainment assets, which feature a vast collection of valuable and highly prized film franchises from Tinseltown.
The director's body of work boasts a diverse array of critically acclaimed and financially successful films, including "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever", which have collectively earned widespread critical praise and admiration.
The CEO of Scottish and Southern Energy has made a major announcement, stating that the company will be selling its energy assets in Turkey and Pakistan to International Power Plc for a sum of £21 million. The buyer is a UK-based energy company.
A formal investigation is set to take place at an airport, featuring Christian Ganczarski, which will be a legally binding and official procedure.
A thick and unanticipated fog swept in without warning, forcing the plane to alter its course unexpectedly, leaving all passengers stunned and unprepared.
The jury delivered a verdict in a remarkably brief 14-day deliberation, immediately after Waagner's defense came to a close.
Bashir's backing had a profound and lasting effect, significantly enhancing our reputation and revitalizing our team's morale, ultimately resulting in outstanding achievements.
A group of nine Democratic hopefuls took turns presenting their unique viewpoints to the crowd.
He thought that admitting to a crime he didn't commit was the sole means of escaping detection.
A group of seven nations, consisting of the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain, have come together in a unified effort.
IBM's CEO Dan Powers emphasizes that the growing demand for high-performance computing cannot be fulfilled solely by scaling up pre-built PC clusters.
The firm is on the brink of bankruptcy due to regulatory hurdles that are severely hindering its capacity to function efficiently.
A superior system should be highly adaptable, seamlessly connecting with a variety of devices to allow users to easily combine disparate content into a unified whole.
He is unwavering in his commitment to negotiating a mutually beneficial agreement with Ford and G.M. by fostering open communication and maintaining a continuous dialogue.
With the ongoing pandemic, it's essential to make travel plans quickly to establish a sense of normalcy and consistency in our daily lives.
Eyewitnesses report that a sudden and brutal assault took place at the mosque, where a group of heavily armed assailants burst in and began shooting at the congregants.
The importance of unrestricted access to information was emphasized by Mr. Shelby, who believes that it empowers people to make well-informed choices, a point he made clear during his recent interview on NBC's "Meet the Press".
This significant milestone signals the conclusion of a crucial period in our school's leadership, paving the way for a fresh era of expansion and progress.
The Parson may have either inadvertently or intentionally tampered with a computer system.
Top government officials in the US and UK are being criticized for allegedly manufacturing false evidence of weapons of mass destruction to legitimize military action and manipulating intelligence to support their claims.
Scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden examined the medical files of over 2,000 babies who received radiation therapy for a non-cancerous skin condition between 1930 and 1959.
The top 600 executives at Microsoft are having their bonuses linked to specific objectives focused on enhancing customer satisfaction and driving revenue growth.
A powerful and prolonged tropical storm slammed into Florida on Friday, exacerbating the existing flooding issues in the state's lakes and waterways.
David Blair discovered a trove of highly confidential documents at the Baghdad Foreign Ministry, whose existence was meant to remain hidden.
The scope of the investigation's investigation is ambiguous due to uncertainty over whether a lone expert or a group of experts was involved in the review.
A furious individual, filled with wrath towards the US Postal Service, burst into a suburban post office, taking two postal workers hostage at gunpoint.
When making an investment decision, it's crucial to weigh the pros and cons of traditional paper bonds versus digital bonds to guarantee that your choice aligns with your unique financial goals and objectives.
The Avenues Clinic gained widespread acclaim for its commitment to providing exceptional healthcare services to a diverse patient population, transcending political affiliations.
Renowned actress Sarah O'Hare is commemorating her 81st birthday by partnering with the National Breast Cancer Foundation to honor an extraordinary woman's remarkable life of selflessness and dedication, while also making a lasting impact.
In Somalia, a considerable proportion of girls between 10 and 19 years old have a limited grasp of HIV/AIDS, with a striking 74% lacking a clear understanding of the facts and almost all (99%) unable to pinpoint effective methods for preventing the spread of the disease.
Mr. Gilbertson would have been eligible for a retirement package regardless of the circumstances.
A devastating blast rocked a government compound in northern Chechnya, unleashing a trail of devastation and claiming 59 lives in a calamitous incident.
Andrew Luster, the son of MAX Factor's founder, was arrested in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, after an investigation into claims of sexual wrongdoing against him was completed.
Massachusetts has repealed the death penalty, standing out as one of the two states where federal executions have taken place despite being outlawed by state law, with Michigan being the other notable exception.
The team failed to achieve its goals.
Gary Lee Sampson is set to appear in court in September, where he will defend himself and confront the severe charges against him, with the specifics of his alleged wrongdoings to be exposed during the trial.
The Toronto metropolitan area, home to around four million people, experienced a minor decrease in suspected cases on Tuesday, with the total number of cases dipping to 64, down from the 66 reported the previous day.
Palm is exploring the possibility of relocating Handspring's team to its headquarters in Milpitas, California.
A well-known person was taken into custody by law enforcement on Monday in relation to the disappearance of a 9-year-old girl, who was later found unharmed after a lengthy 48-hour search effort.
Basra is grappling with a dire heat crisis, as its cooling infrastructure is struggling to cope with record-breaking temperatures that have soared to a sweltering 122 degrees Fahrenheit.
A comprehensive report about the devastating Columbia space shuttle accident, which claimed the lives of seven astronauts, is slated for release in late August. The investigation's findings will reveal that the tragic event was the outcome of a multifaceted combination of circumstances, rather than a solitary cause.
The proportion of individuals aged 60-69 with a disability has experienced a significant decrease of over 10% over the past few years.
Tom Parker has selected a neutral mediator to facilitate a settlement and will engage in discussions with Moore's legal team on Monday to find a mutually advantageous agreement.
A collaborative operation by law enforcement authorities resulted in the apprehension of 300 people at 61 retail locations spanning 21 states.
A prominent Saudi individual with alleged ties to Al Qaeda is still on the run and is the focus of a thorough investigation into the Riyadh bombings.
Koizumi strongly condemned Konoike's remarks, labeling them as completely inexcusable.
The company intends to revitalize its business software infrastructure by integrating the strengths of.NET and J2EE, aiming to transform its core mainframe system to boost efficiency and speed.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Comorian national, is a notorious criminal with a shrouded past, now considered one of the FBI's most wanted fugitives.
A person is under investigation for suspected connections to a series of devastating explosions, which include the infamous 1996 Atlanta Olympic bombing and a subsequent blast in Alabama, as well as other linked incidents.
The historic decision sparked jubilation among those advocating for LGBTQ+ equality, whereas religious groups vociferously condemned it as a flagrant disregard for their fundamental values.
The welcome home ceremony for the 3rd Squadron of the 7th Cavalry Regiment has been postponed indefinitely.
The American Red Cross is grappling with a substantial financial burden, having invested $114 million in disaster relief efforts since June but only receiving a modest $40 million in donations from its supporters.
"Our strategy prioritizes neutrality and inclusivity, using straightforward language and non-contentious concepts to create a message that resonates with a broad audience."
GeCAD Software has been a trailblazer in the antivirus and security software sector since its inception in 1992, with its RAV AntiVirus series dominating the market since 1994.
Lloyds TSB is considering selling its stake in National Bank of New Zealand.
A previously arranged court hearing has been unexpectedly cancelled, and it was initially planned to take place in Tarrytown, a quaint town located just 12 miles north of New York City.
A 76-year-old jeweler from New York's diamond district, Yehuda Abraham, reportedly received a $30,000 bribe in exchange for granting access to missiles.
The company has achieved a substantial reduction of £600 million in its lease liabilities, culminating in a total of £1.6 billion, which could potentially lead to an exit from the US market.
Mark Young frequently flew on corporate planes for work-related reasons, often accompanying Kozlowski on his business travels.
A major breakthrough has been achieved, providing a promising solution to tackle the leading cause of age-related vision decline, ultimately protecting the eyesight of seniors.
A major milestone was achieved, marking a significant advancement in the Bush administration's effort to streamline and accelerate regulatory processes by eliminating obstacles.
Before reaching a definitive conclusion, it is essential to conduct additional scientific research to verify the existence of both long and short gene variants.
A joint investigation by the FBI and local authorities was conducted to investigate the disappearance of the children's van, but it did not produce any substantial clues or tangible evidence to advance the case.
The stock's value suffered a sharp decline on Friday, plummeting 17% and ending the day at $5.91, a significant drop of $1.24 from the previous day's close on the Nasdaq market.
Emergency responders hastened to the site of the explosion to extricate around 150 individuals who were pinned under the rubble.
He has achieved remarkable physical improvements through his intense three-hour daily football training, allowing him to recover rapidly from high-intensity activities and boasting a notable 17-kilogram weight loss since October.
The condition poses a significant health risk, potentially causing serious health issues such as cardiovascular disease, kidney damage, and vision problems. If left untreated, it may require immediate surgery, which could result in the loss of a limb.
A formal grievance has been filed against Shelley, Conny McCormack, the Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters, and election officials in Orange and San Diego counties, alleging unethical behavior.
Goodyear's quarterly financial report, previously scheduled for release on Thursday, has been delayed and will now be made public in November instead.
Hewitt's legal team warned him of the potential consequences, leading the ATP to release a revised statement that clarified the changes made to the original court schedule.
His time at Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar had a profound impact on his life, fostering a developing passion for politics as he engaged with his fellow students.
IBM has formed a partnership with the organization, providing significant resources to help achieve its objectives, which have received the backing of the Common Engineering Leadership Forum.
The attorney general's stance has undergone a significant shift over the past three decades, with his original position now almost unrecognizable from his current beliefs.
Viacom argues that the name "Spike" is too generic and lacks a clear connection to Lee, making it difficult to secure trademark protection due to its widespread use.
The speaker is urging for a more equitable gender distribution in UN peacekeeping forces, stressing the significance of achieving a gender parity of 50% among both military and police personnel.
By leveraging his fame, he established a personalized platform that allowed his enthusiastic followers to connect with him directly through one-on-one phone calls, thereby bridging the gap and facilitating seamless communication.
A significant injection of $70 million is on the horizon, poised to have a profound effect on local communities and enhance the scope of grassroots initiatives.
Through open and genuine conversations, people can develop a deeper understanding of their smoking behaviors and make more enlightened decisions.
The person concocted a false narrative, trying to deflect blame for the attack onto the Taliban, despite having been previously defeated in 2001, and it's likely that they perished in the explosion.
Senator Charles Schumer of New York is urging President Bush to take swift and decisive action on the pressing issue being considered by Congress.
The speaker implores the newly appointed leaders of the Archdiocese of Boston to acknowledge and make amends for past mistakes, thereby clearing the path for a path of redemption and advancement.
The compelling arguments delivered were able to sway the minds of two initially indecisive senators from Nebraska and Ohio, leading them to ultimately support the proposed legislation.
In Israel, a severe fuel shortage led to lengthy queues at petrol stations, causing a sharp increase in cash withdrawals from ATMs as people stockpiled money in anticipation of a possible strike that threatened to disrupt their daily lives.
The devastating loss of two CIA contractors in Afghanistan triggered a profound emotional response, evoking widespread grief and distress among those affected by the tragedy.
Maintaining a robust infrastructure that serves a significant number of government officials focused on countering terrorism requires the expertise of experienced IT specialists to effectively address the diverse range of technical challenges that inevitably emerge.
High-ranking professionals frequently hesitate to upgrade their office computers due to deeply ingrained habits and a lack of exposure to cutting-edge technological innovations.
"We're steadily advancing towards our business goals and strengthening our financial stability."
The company's financial results showed a significant improvement, driven largely by a 5% increase in revenue that surpassed forecasts.
A court has granted permission to several news outlets, including The Seattle Times, the Associated Press, and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, to review and disseminate previously confidential documents following their formal requests.
A groundbreaking wireless technology company has introduced a game-changing smartphone, the first to boast the latest Windows Mobile 2003 software, a major innovation in the industry.
Wolfowitz believes that the threat of military intervention and the widespread corruption in North Korea are not viable solutions to the current crisis.
Judge William Barbour imposed a strict sentence on Avants, reflecting his lack of regret for his serious wrongdoings.
A bombshell revelation was suddenly shared with the public during a live MSNBC television broadcast on a Friday evening.
The company has allocated $4.4 billion for research and development, a slight increase from the initial $4.3 billion budget.
A woman running an unlicensed daycare was sentenced to four months in prison for neglecting the safety and well-being of the children in her care.
A tropical storm, Claudette, is predicted to intensify into a hurricane, with a significant chance of striking the Texas coastline by Tuesday.
Scientists at Imperial College London have identified a hormone that seems to suppress appetite in people with a healthy body mass index.
He promised to rally a huge crowd at the renowned Grand Central Terminal, making a striking declaration at this esteemed landmark.
The Nasdaq has undergone a dramatic reversal of fortunes, surging by 21.2% since March 11, after plummeting to its lowest level since October.
A high-end menswear boutique was hiding its illicit gains from credit card scams by channeling the illicit funds through seemingly reputable companies, thus masking the criminal origin of the money.
Two locals, Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and William Sampson, who is originally from the region, are facing the possibility of being sentenced to death.
The current SARS outbreak exhibits distinct characteristics and is deemed to pose no significant risk to public health.
A third major wildfire has ravaged the area in the span of only four years, causing widespread devastation and a path of destruction.
According to Rusty Wood, the leader of the coalition, the recent NAFTA decision indicates that Canadian lumber producers are producing more wood than the US market can absorb, giving them an unfair advantage over American wood producers.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation's legal director, Cindy Cohn, argues that the Digital Millennium Copyright Act gives copyright owners an excessively wide range of authority to dictate how their intellectual property is safeguarded and enforced.
In October 2002, Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo were apprehended at a Maryland highway rest stop, with a court appearance scheduled for November 10.
The airline's fate remains uncertain as it anxiously awaits the results of the current negotiations.
Three esteemed astronauts, Story Musgrave, Robert Gibson, and Daniel Brandenstein, are being honored with a prestigious award for their outstanding achievements in the field of space exploration.
Jim Furyk, beaming with joy as a new dad, marked Father's Day by achieving a remarkable milestone, claiming his first major golf championship in a prestigious tournament.
A powerful explosion struck the area surrounding the United Nations headquarters on a Monday, resulting in the tragic loss of a UN security officer and the perpetrator of the blast.
Grant has been appointed to the board of directors at Monsanto, as per a recent official announcement.
The stock market saw a substantial 11% increase on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $21.51, resulting in a profit of $2.11.
Scientists have studied human behavior in response to unforeseen and unpredictable events.
The doctor expressed doubts about the reliability of the mathematical formula employed to predict the statistical outcome.
The study by Halla reveals that joint efforts result in a mutually beneficial outcome, promoting a sense of shared purpose and unity among all participating parties.
A prominent Texas politician placed two phone calls to Escobar during a Democratic party gathering in Oklahoma, with several high-ranking party officials in attendance.
A popular petition focuses on a highly-regarded 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate, renowned for its adaptability and versatility, and is used in various industries such as manufacturing, toolmaking, and die production.
The alarm will sound if the ozone level surpasses 0.20 parts per million within a one-hour window.
In Oregon, a species had developed a remarkable ability to thrive in its native environment, where a consistent 65-degree temperature had created an ideal habitat. Not only did it manage to survive, but it surprisingly excelled when the temperature suddenly shot up to 87 degrees, contradicting predictions.
In April, the housing market saw a sudden and significant increase in demand, with numerous homebuyers flocking to buy both newly constructed and existing properties, largely due to the unusually low mortgage interest rates.
The lawyer petitioned the Bali court to drop the lawsuit, arguing that the court did not have the authority to hear the matter.
Recent breakthroughs in cancer research have been published in the latest edition of Cancer, the official journal of the American Cancer Society, and are now accessible to the public.
Following John Smith's untimely death from a heart attack in 1994, Tony Blair succeeded him as the leader of the Labour Party after a sudden and unexpected vacancy.
A breaking news report has been published by the Associated Press and is now accessible for your perusal.
The governing body of the internet has issued a dire alert, cautioning against tampering with Internet Explorer, as it could unleash a devastating ripple effect that would have profound repercussions on various online networks and infrastructure.
A recent study has revealed a substantial drop in the success rate of long-line fishing, with the average catch per 100 hooks decreasing dramatically from 10 to a mere one.
A shocking discovery has come to light, revealing the heartbreaking possibility that a parent may have endured the agony of losing a young child, potentially due to the child's reckless and self-destructive actions.
It is anticipated that the Securities and Exchange Commission will initiate legal proceedings in the near future.
A commemoration of Lowe's Motor Speedway would be a suitable way to honor the storied past and enduring influence of The Winston, a storied competition that merits commemoration.
A group of Kenyan women have taken legal action against the UK's Ministry of Defence, alleging that British military personnel subjected them to heinous sexual atrocities.
The company's internal records failed to pinpoint the underlying reason behind the prolonged downtime of their computer network.
If found guilty, Ciobanu faces the possibility of a lengthy prison sentence, potentially as long as 15 years, due to Romania's strict laws regarding cybercrime, which mete out severe punishments for digital offenses.
Fifty-five-year-old Mary Kathryn Miller was taken into custody by state police on November 20th and is currently facing a serious criminal charge of grand theft in the first degree.
Vivendi Universal is planning to launch a bidding process for its US entertainment assets, which feature prominent American film production studios, in the near future.
A massive gathering of more than 1,000 individuals converged to voice their apprehensions regarding the overreliance on genetically modified foods as a remedy for the world's food issues.
This high-tech microchip boasts a sophisticated power and cooling mechanism, engineered to accelerate processing speed while expertly regulating heat output.
My attorney, Ronald L. Kuby, maintained open communication throughout my case, actively seeking my input and adapting his strategy to incorporate my thoughts and opinions in addressing the harassment allegations.
Several key nations, including Russia, France, and China, are urging the United Nations to grant official recognition to the Iraqi government, which has the support of the US, in order to boost its global reputation and authority.
The forthcoming testimony will delve into the strategies and promotional methods employed by tax shelter initiatives.
White House Press Secretary Taylor Gross is dismayed that Senator Clinton is turning the confirmation hearing for Governor Leavitt into a spectacle, rather than focusing on his impressive credentials.
After a massive financial blow of $11 billion due to a major accounting scandal, WorldCom is embarking on a comprehensive rebranding effort to restore its reputation and credibility by repositioning itself as MCI.
"A comprehensive inquiry is underway, with the collaboration of external experts, as previously disclosed."
Xerox's stock price finished the day at $11.45, rising by 2 cents, and is now available for trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
This computer features a 2.0 GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128MB of RAM, a 40GB hard drive, and a CD player, available for purchase at a price of $729.
A senior Saudi Arabian government official, Saud al-Faisal, is expected to visit the country, according to reliable government insiders.
The escalating gun violence has reached a crisis level, forcing Moose to concede that he can no longer guarantee the community's safety with certainty.
The automotive industry saw a substantial downturn, with an 8% drop in car sales, whereas there was a more modest 2.7% rise in demand for light trucks such as vans, pickups, and sport utility vehicles.
A devastating plane crash in Turkey led to the heartbreaking death of 62 Spanish peacekeepers who were on their way back to Spain.
The environmental quality audit has been postponed, providing us with a several-month period to complete the project at a leisurely pace.
Two prominent Democratic leaders, Senator Vi Simpson and Joe Andrew, are vying for the Democratic presidential nomination in the upcoming election.
According to recent findings, a significant shift has occurred in public opinion regarding the business environment, marked by a 2.3% increase in negative sentiment, with a growing number of individuals now holding a pessimistic outlook, now standing at 30.4%, up from 28.1% in June.
Trevor Fetter has been the permanent CEO of Tenet since November, having first served as interim CEO before being officially appointed to the role.
Comcast's Class A stock experienced a significant increase of 8 cents, finishing the trading day at $30.50, after making its debut on the Nasdaq market.
Lt-Col Yang's success was largely attributed to the combination of his theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience, which he developed under the guidance of his father, a well-versed academic and seasoned farmer.
A joint effort by law enforcement agencies led to remarkable achievements, exceeding expectations through their unified strategy.
The issue of administering medication to intentionally compromise a patient's cognitive functions in order to shorten their life raises numerous ethical concerns for healthcare providers.
The Galveston County District Attorney's office has obtained audio recordings as part of their ongoing investigation.
Wim Duisenberg, the head of the European Central Bank, doesn't see a compelling reason to lower interest rates in the eurozone at this time.
Rumors are circulating that two high-ranking members of the Jordanian royal family, who are closely tied to the king, are being considered as potential successors to the throne.
Belgium has abolished a contentious law that had previously resulted in legal action against George W. Bush, the former US President, and Ariel Sharon, the former Israeli Prime Minister.
Uncovering the reason behind the person's passing would necessitate a thorough and labor-intensive investigation.
GlaxoSmithKline, a prominent British pharmaceutical company, has halted shipments to Canadian pharmacies that have been flouting the rules by illegally exporting their products to the US market.
Justice O'Connor anticipates that racial preferences will become increasingly less relevant over the next 25 years.
The individual did not meet the standards set for the assignment.
The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, is set to head a delegation to the UN Security Council in mid-May.
Sanchez de Lozada promised to hold a country-wide vote on a disputed gas project, overhaul Bolivia's energy industry, and revise the constitution to alleviate public concerns and restore stability across the nation.
Recent breakthroughs have sparked a wave of positivity, painting a brighter picture for the future.
"By being open and genuine, I've formed stronger bonds with those around me, creating a sense of unity and closeness."
The CEO, Robert A. Eckert, announced that the company's quarterly profits fell short of projections, primarily due to a drop in inventory levels at retail stores and a decline in market share.
The Turkish ambassador has voiced apprehension that Turkish military personnel may be at risk of being targeted.
Experts forecast that the company's third-quarter earnings per share will likely be approximately 16 cents, with total revenue anticipated to reach around $7.15 billion.
The tribunal's spokesperson, Jim Landale, has stated that the plan is to publicly release the meeting video recordings once the US government gives the green light, with a projected timeline of this Friday.
Wealthy individuals such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth can donate large sums of money to political causes without drawing significant public scrutiny, thereby granting them a significant financial edge over their rivals.
Forecasters anticipated that the storm would intensify into a moderate hurricane before making landfall.
In recent years, NASA's satellite observations have revealed a disconcerting 10% annual decline in Arctic ice sheet coverage, sparking widespread concern over the alarming rate of polar ice cap melting.
The company is suggesting a short-term fix to address the issue, pending the development and implementation of a more permanent solution.
General Electric appears to be putting the brakes on its acquisition strategy, whereas other suitors like Bronfman and Davis are pushing ahead with their offers.
Dr. Julie Gerberding, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, is sounding the alarm, warning that the situation is escalating at an alarming rate and is on the verge of descending into chaos.
The Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee will gather on Tuesday and announce its decision the following day.
The church is deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic passing of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy, a beloved figure in their community, who met his untimely demise in a helicopter crash in Iraq on November 7th, leaving behind a lasting impact.
The conference committee wholeheartedly approved the proposed plan, yet it's essential to acknowledge that the lack of opposing opinions doesn't necessarily imply the plan has gone unexamined.
IBM's IT teams thoroughly evaluate and validate the capabilities of innovative technologies and platforms to ensure efficient and hassle-free operations.
The majority perspective was expressed in a joint statement by Chief Justice Rehnquist, while Justices Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer, and O'Connor provided their own individual endorsements.
The AustMag board is contemplating putting the project on hold for a short time to avoid a potential financial crisis.
Cybercriminal Eleonora67 has postponed the deadline to 8am AEST today due to the unexpected discovery of three previously unknown security flaws, which require additional time to address.
A seemingly innocuous remark Mallard made at a social gathering unexpectedly rekindled the inquiry into Biggs' demise, which had been on hold for four months, resulting in a significant advancement.
The Singaporean embassy in Bangkok is situated in a city with a troubled past marked by intense violence and hostility, making it a high-risk location.
The proposed plan seeks to create a more consistent and reliable leadership structure within the CIA by reducing the impact of political considerations on director selections, ultimately putting an end to the frequent and politically motivated changes that have plagued the agency.
Japanese Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa thinks the yen's recent strengthening is unjustified, but he has chosen not to intervene with government measures to slow it down.
The individual is undergoing medical care at Kings County Hospital Center, having been admitted the previous evening and exhibiting minor signs of progress.
A pioneering occurrence in Chicago served as the catalyst for the initiation of a revolutionary scientific endeavor.
"The experience filled me with a profound sense of national pride and awe, stirring up a strong emotional response that led me to believe our nation's value was being genuinely recognized."
The stock market saw a notable surge, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average surging 0.3% to 9,886.75 and the Nasdaq Composite index climbing 0.4% to 1,986.97.
A former associate of the JI organization is currently incarcerated in a maximum-security US prison, providing crucial insights into the inner workings of the group.
The 10-year bond's interest rate experienced a slight drop, falling from 4.39% to 4.38%, as investors shifted their focus towards bonds in the afternoon, leading to a minor decrease.
Ford's latest quarterly financial report revealed a significant improvement, primarily attributed to a substantial 21.5% increase in Ford Credit's net earnings, resulting in a profit of $401 million.
Roberson suffered a violent physical attack, leaving her with a deep cut on her back and numerous cuts on her leg.
"The key distinction lies in the inclusion of a tiny yet vital component, namely a tuner."
The blurring of lines between genuine emotions and material interests in romantic relationships creates a moral conundrum, making it challenging to discern whether affection is driven by true feelings or financial gain.
Compared to its industry counterparts, Intel's dividend yield is noticeably lower.
A high-level delegation comprising officials from Iraq, the United States, and Turkey converged at Turkey's Ceyhan port to mark the departure of a significant shipment.
A senior Russian government official's recent statement has inadvertently let slip that a major breakthrough is imminent, indicating Russia's eagerness to collaborate with Iran on nuclear energy initiatives.
A prominent figure from the influential hip-hop group So Solid Crew swiftly and covertly disposed of a firearm containing ammunition in a dimly lit alley to avoid detection by law enforcement.
This cutting-edge wireless technology operates on the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency range, delivering data transfer rates between 11 and 55 megabits per second.
A primary election is scheduled to occur in Florida on March 9, mirroring the actions of 28 other states that have already conducted their respective primaries.
The details of the financial agreement will be made public at a later stage, but for now, they are confidential and inaccessible to the general public.
The German financial regulatory agency, BaFin, has expressed concerns regarding WestLB's methods for evaluating and managing risk.
Taiwan was caught off guard by the sudden and swift spread of SARS, defying predictions that it would be quickly brought under control.
Two industry leaders have partnered to create tailored memory solutions that meet the unique requirements of innovative sectors.
A number of countries, including France, Russia, and China, are urging the UN to officially recognize Iraq's newly designated leader in an effort to boost the government's global standing and credibility.
Intel's CFO Andy Bryant revealed that the company has experienced an unprecedented surge in growth, boasting its highest quarterly performance in a quarter-century.
Gary Nicklaus, the son of golf icon Jack Nicklaus, began his round with an impressive performance, recording five birdies on the front nine and ultimately finishing with a respectable score of 69, thanks to a fortunate turn of events that secured him sponsorship support.
US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld proposed awarding the nation's highest honor to every individual serving in the US military.
The latest Finder update boasts a simplified design, giving users a centralized hub to efficiently organize and manage their storage assets, including files, devices, servers, cloud storage, and external media, all accessible at the touch of a button.
The MONUC mission in Bunia is facing significant challenges in addressing the ongoing conflict due to limited resources and limited influence, with only 700 personnel on the ground to respond to the situation.
The Pentagon's internal auditing department is responsible for scrutinizing and evaluating the protocols for granting telecommunications permits.
The US Conference Board's business confidence index has reached a remarkable high, achieving a score of 60, a substantial increase from its previous quarter's score of 53.
In a bid to ensure public safety, authorities took swift action by closing the canyon road and relocating nearby residents on Thursday.
Two siblings from Portland have admitted to secretly working with al-Qaida and the Taliban, along with five other accomplices.
When faced with limited information, individuals may overlook critical warning signs related to newly introduced substances, leading to a lack of awareness about the potential risks they pose.
In the past, it was typically the woman's responsibility to manage household duties, although many men also played a significant part in domestic responsibilities.
High-ranking officials from China, Russia, and four Central Asian countries gathered in Beijing to develop a comprehensive economic plan that aligns with their shared strategic military objectives.
According to Cisco's latest financial reports, the company recorded a net profit of $991 million, translating to 14 cents per share, and generated a total revenue of $4.7 billion during its second fiscal quarter.
TSMC's collaboration with its clients is under the microscope due to concerns surrounding Syndia's trustworthiness.
Securing a sufficient number of participants with severe depression for a study can be a major challenge, potentially undermining the reliability of the results used to assess a medication's efficacy.
Around 6,000 workers, including drivers, operators, mechanics, and other skilled experts, staged a massive labor protest.
The crowd's enthusiastic applause was a resounding endorsement of the speaker's stance, solidifying his reputation as a fierce advocate for democratic values.
The assailants launched their projectiles from a concealed location, employing a cleverly camouflaged cannon disguised as a standard power generator to remain undetected.
The company has put in place a rigorous procedure for accessing their logos, casting doubt on the validity of Marisa Baldeo's earlier assertions about the logos' authenticity.
A juvenile has been taken into custody and formally charged with developing a customized version of the notorious RPCSDBOT malware.
A bundle of legal cases is being sent to a federal court for a thorough examination and a final judgment.
Ms. Stewart's predicament is largely a direct result of her own decisions and actions, rather than any lingering prejudices or negative opinions.
A seriously ailing woman was hastily transported to New Charing Cross Hospital, having received swift medical attention from paramedics who responded quickly to the emergency.
The 2.6.0 kernel has made significant progress, but it still requires further refinement before it can be widely implemented.
The Russell 2000 index, which tracks the performance of small-cap stocks, experienced a significant 2.5% jump, finishing the day at 497.42 and gaining a total of 11.92 points.
Brian Brabazon's son initially responded to bullying by using physical force, but later discovered a strategy to resolve the conflict peacefully and transform the situation.
Blagojevich questioned whether casinos would be a reliable solution to alleviate the state's financial woes caused by its budgetary deficits.
A massive cyber attack, known as Lovsan, unleashed a global cybersecurity emergency, leading to a chain reaction of widespread disruptions and severe harm to the world's computer systems.
A high-ranking UN representative is urging swift action to address Japan's decision to withhold financial assistance to Myanmar until Aung San Suu Kyi is released from imprisonment.
The vaccine's clinical trial is scheduled to start in 2005, and if it meets the required regulatory standards, it could take a few years to become widely available.
The United Auto Workers union has secured short-term deals with Ford, Chrysler, and Visteon, allowing their current labor contracts to remain in effect for another four years.
Jane Doe's legal team requested that Verizon maintain her anonymity, as she intended to file an appeal and wished to avoid being linked to the case in the public eye.
A high-level meeting of government officials is currently taking place, with a crucial bill on the table that is likely to bring substantial relief to healthcare providers by significantly lowering their financial burdens from medical malpractice insurance premiums.
Ryan Harvey, a skilled outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida, was selected by the Chicago Cubs as the sixth overall pick in a highly anticipated draft, marking a crucial milestone in his transition to professional baseball.
The four individuals, together, weighed a total of 136 pounds as they left the house.
Over the past six months, the prices have demonstrated a remarkable stability, with only slight variations of less than 30% throughout that period.
Kelley's extensive educational background and three decades of teaching expertise have equipped her with a distinct set of skills, leading to an annual salary of $65,000.
Wheaton College is gearing up to commemorate a milestone occasion, with a 21-year-old student, Morgan, being an integral part of the festivities. To celebrate this momentous event, a lively dance party will be held in the college's gym tomorrow evening.
The capsule's descent was halted by the deployment of its parachute, which slowed it down gradually, resulting in a soft and accurate landing just 12 meters from where it started.
A group with anarchist ties, previously accused of masterminding a December 21 bombing, is now believed to be behind a recent violent attack.
A collection of highly anticipated movies is anticipated to yield substantial financial returns, with each film expected to rake in over $20 million within a mere three-day timeframe.
A senior executive at Rite Aid has agreed to collaborate closely with government authorities over the next fortnight.
Preliminary findings indicate that the woman's demise was likely caused by manual strangulation, and it appears that she suffered a brutal sexual attack prior to her death.
The forecast is accompanied by a 4.9% range of uncertainty, encompassing both upward and downward adjustments.
The stock market saw a significant increase, resulting in a 9% boost, pushing its worth to $31.90, a $2.57 gain from its starting point.
The Labor Department's payroll data offers a detailed and reliable snapshot of the economy, backed by a wide range of statistical indicators.
The likelihood of the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates in June is increasing as the economy's current conditions become more favorable.
Kraft's latest endeavor has garnered significant excitement from FDA head Mark McClellan, who sees it as a groundbreaking milestone that may significantly reshape the industry's future course.
A provisional administration will be established to facilitate the creation of a constitution and orchestrate the country's inaugural democratic election, ultimately leading to the establishment of a more stable and enduring government.
A tiny crack in the spacecraft's wing allowed scorching air to seep into the thermal shield during its descent, ultimately resulting in a catastrophic malfunction.
The external hard drive market witnessed a steady expansion, leading to a notable 1.5% surge in revenue, amounting to a substantial $3.2 billion, a marked improvement over the previous year's figures.
Jimmy Hoffa, a 62-year-old individual, mysteriously disappeared from a parking lot in Bloomfield Township, Michigan, on July 30, 1975, leaving behind a baffling and enduring puzzle.
A significant milestone is approaching at Wheaton College's gym, commemorating a significant anniversary in the institution's 143-year history. The celebration is anticipated to bring together over 1,200 students, including 21-year-old Morgan, for an exciting first-time dance event.
A same-sex couple residing in Salem, Massachusetts, were left feeling let down and emotionally shaken following a distressing occurrence.
A 30-year-old man, Paul Durousseau, is being investigated for his suspected link to a series of five murders in Jacksonville that took place over two months. Additionally, he is being closely examined for his possible involvement in a 1997 murder in Georgia, where he is a key suspect.
In 1999, Stack and Triumph carried out a thorough examination of Silvester's conduct, resulting in a detailed and all-encompassing assessment of his behavior.
The ghost's unsettling presence eerily mirrors the foreboding and enigmatic mood that shrouds Hamlet's skull.
Archdiocese representative Rev. Christopher Coyne remained tight-lipped during an interview, electing not to make any public comments or statements.
A delegation of experts from the US Department of Agriculture, led by Secretary Ann Veneman, is planning a trip to Canada to provide assistance.
Approximately 130,000 US troops are deployed in Iraq, simultaneously undertaking operations in Afghanistan, South Korea, and other countries.
A study conducted at five urban hospitals discovered that nearly half of patients surveyed believed that cancer can be spread through airborne transmission during surgical operations.
The institute strongly disagrees with the department's evaluation of the proposed plan, arguing that it significantly downplays the severe and lasting consequences that would arise if it were put into action.
In a surprise move, rebels in a Russian-occupied area launched a sudden military assault, triggering a swift and fierce aerial bombardment of residential districts, dramatically escalating the crisis.
This pivotal moment marks a significant shift for our organization, as highlighted by Mr. O'Keefe's insightful remark.
A shocking majority, approximately two-thirds of the company's workforce, suffered a fatal outcome in the brutal attack.
The SARS epidemic had a devastating impact, claiming almost 770 lives and infecting over 8,300 people, with the first reported cases occurring in southern China in November.
A young boy was brutally beaten by a teenager, suffering severe and potentially life-threatening injuries, with no apparent motive or warning signs leading up to the senseless assault.
Individuals with a optimistic mindset generally experience improved sleep quality, make healthier dietary choices, prioritize physical activity, and demonstrate resilience in the face of adversity.
The legal process typically commences once a proposed legislation has been officially adopted and rewritten into a enforceable statute.
Researchers are undertaking a meticulous investigation to identify the key drivers behind the surge in reported occurrences, with the ultimate aim of isolating the most significant contributors to this phenomenon.
Jacob has been a strong advocate for consolidation, acknowledging that rural communities have historically been resistant to this idea, especially in certain regions.
The elderly woman crumpled to the ground, her face buried in the dirt as she let out a mournful cry, her tears streaming down her face in an uncontrollable torrent, her sorrow on the verge of overwhelming her.
The company's stock has experienced a significant upswing, largely attributed to a combination of factors, including WorldCom's financial struggles and speculation about a potential AT&T acquisition.
The three priests strictly adhered to established procedures, which ultimately bolstered their reputation and credibility.
Governor Bob Holden is strongly urging the White House to swiftly declare a state of emergency in 39 counties, citing the severe conditions and the need for immediate intervention to alleviate the crisis.
The biotech sector experienced a significant surge in stock prices after ImClone Systems and Genentech made major breakthroughs in cancer treatment, suggesting a bright future for cancer therapy advancements.
A sudden surge in infections has triggered a significant outbreak in Colorado, impacting more than 6,300 people and claiming at least six lives.
There are whispers that Miami, Boston College, and Syracuse may be on the cusp of leaving the Big East Conference and potentially joining forces with the Atlantic Coast Conference in a new alliance.
By 2002, the majority of households with high-speed internet at home were utilizing cable modems, which made up approximately 63% of the total, with around 34% opting for DSL connections instead.
Over the past year, the popularity of high-speed cable modem technology has skyrocketed, with a remarkable 50% boost in its widespread adoption.
Franklin hit a ground ball, allowing his team to score when he safely rounded the bases and crossed the plate.
The company's quarterly revenue took a drastic hit, plummeting to $36.9 billion, a substantial drop from its initial $39.3 billion, largely attributed to a severe decline in vehicle sales.
A Calpers representative is looking to enhance investment returns by diversifying their portfolio across various investment options.
The planet takes an unusually long time to complete one orbit around its star, with its orbital period lasting a remarkable 165 years. This unusual pace leads to a prolonged spring season, which can last for 40 years or more, making this phenomenon truly one-of-a-kind and remarkable.
Two influential individuals hold contrasting views on ethanol, a vital aspect of Iowa's heritage, and also have differing stances on allowing oil and gas exploration in Alaska's ecologically fragile regions.
The precise number of passengers on the ferry is uncertain due to incomplete data, with the ferry operators having only rough estimates of the number of people on board.
Medical experts were worried about the circumstances, yet they were confident that with proper care, the situation could be brought under control and maintained.
The commercial relationship between the United States and Singapore is significant, with their annual commerce valued at more than $34 billion, making Singapore the 12th most important trading nation for the US.
The US dollar surprisingly gained ground against the euro, yen, and Swiss franc in September, defying predictions that it would weaken after a lackluster retail sales report.
"The outcome would probably have been altered if the rules had been strictly adhered to."
In the Inland Empire, Labor Day is celebrated with high-energy racing festivals that have become an integral part of the community's tradition, building up immense anticipation and enthusiasm among locals.
The interest rate of the 3.625% bond has decreased by 2 percentage points since its introduction in February 2013, currently at 3.66%.
Law enforcement officials conducted a surprise operation at two well-known nightlife establishments, Cheetah's and Jaguars, as well as a commercial property situated above a bar and pool hall in the lively downtown Las Vegas district.
The Dell'Oro Group predicts a significant growth in the market, forecasting a valuation of an impressive $12 billion by 2004.
Eugene O'Neill's play "Long Day's Journey Into Night" was met with widespread critical acclaim, earning a remarkable seven Tony Award nominations and achieving unprecedented commercial success.
Frank McCloskey, 64, succumbed to bladder cancer after a courageous fight, displaying unwavering resilience and determination as he battled the disease with unshakeable resolve.
We began our 18-month adventure across North America in Toronto, pausing briefly in the city before setting off on our journey.
The Nasdaq, a benchmark for the tech industry's health, has made a remarkable recovery since March 11, with its main indexes rising by approximately 20% since their October low, reflecting a notable six-month turnaround.
A wide-ranging online poll gathered the views of a diverse group of 120 individuals.
The US military is facing a pressing issue due to the unauthorized diversion of crucial resources and equipment.
The Concorde's supersonic flight created a sonic boom, which led to a chain reaction of subsequent sonic booms.
A significant court hearing is set for mid-February, at which point a three-judge panel will deliver a final verdict.
Businesses are evolving by embracing cutting-edge approaches and forging collaborative relationships to create customized solutions that cater to their unique needs, ultimately fostering a sense of unity and effectiveness among team members.
A coalition of leading technology companies, including Intel, Sony, Microsoft, HP, IBM, Gateway, and Nokia, have joined forces to back this endeavor.
The Ex-Im board members showed remarkable bravery and dedication to environmental conservation, earning admiration from Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth for their bold decision.
The prolonged crisis has had a catastrophic impact, claiming the lives of over 10,000 innocent individuals, predominantly ordinary citizens who have been disproportionately affected.
Thomas gained the backing of Chief Justice Rehnquist and received moderate backing from Justices O'Connor and Scalia.
The email breach did not lead to any unauthorized access to the system, and the affected individuals were able to ask Hamidi to stop sending unwanted emails, which he promptly complied with.
A 14-year-old boy from Belmont, North Carolina, named Tom Kasmer stumbled upon an enigmatic term called "zistee" while participating in a recent competition.
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham believes that the recent blackout could have been avoided.
After the 9/11 attacks, investigators thoroughly examined al-Bayoumi's activities, dedicating substantial resources to scrutinize his actions and daily routines.
The euro's value skyrocketed to a record-breaking 135.13 yen immediately following its introduction in January 1999.
A proposed ban on smoking in Boston has sparked worries about public safety, particularly in the vicinity of bars and nightclubs, where large groups of smokers often gather outside.
The Canadian environment commissioner is strongly condemning the government's rushed approval of new pesticides, arguing that the potential risks to children's health and overall well-being were not thoroughly assessed before the decision was made.
Evaluating a Supreme Court nominee typically requires a personalized and targeted analysis, leading to a brief and superficial examination.
Between 1993 and 2002, a total of 142 instances of sexual assault were recorded and documented over the course of 10 years.
According to the latest statistics, there has been a modest 0.6% decrease in production output from the previous quarter.
Rebellious individuals who disregard rules and regulations with reckless disregard have persisted in their lawless behavior, shielded by their anonymity and the lack of consequences for their actions.
A group of people who were suddenly forced to abandon their homes after a surprise assault on a weekend were left stranded on the outskirts of Mecca when their vehicle suffered a breakdown, preventing them from reaching their destination.
Chandler's team is taking a neutral and objective view of the situation, conducting a thorough and all-encompassing investigation, despite the lack of concrete proof.
Rumors are circulating about a potential presidential trip to the Middle East, which could take place in the near future.
The study explored a broad spectrum of behaviors, encompassing both lawful forms of free speech, like peaceful protests, and illegal methods, including the creation and misuse of forged documents to gain unauthorized access to restricted zones.
The SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be utilized individually or in conjunction with the ControlCenter suite to deliver a comprehensive set of storage management solutions.
This picturesque spot is renowned for its tranquil meadow and compact, paved space with an ATM, and holds great historical importance as the place where Orville Wright honed his skills, crafted an early biplane prototype, experimented with car designs, and conceptualized toy ideas.
The team developed a detailed plan, dedicating a substantial amount of their budget to mitigate the predicted 5% decline in healthcare professionals' compensation.
Approximately 10 million shares were disposed of, with the resulting funds donated to a charitable organization, which subsequently liquidated its assets.
Microsoft has released an emergency patch to address a severe flaw in its Office 2003 software bundle, which is now available for users to download.
A crucial court hearing commenced in Fulton County Superior Court on Thursday, setting in motion a legal journey that will have a profound and far-reaching effect on Matthew Whitley's future.
The president capitalized on the moment to advocate for a comprehensive overhaul of the nation's electrical infrastructure, emphasizing the pressing need to tackle the problem to avert future power outages.
The appeal of cutting-edge smartphones stems from their innovative technologies, which are often highlighted in the latest device launches.
Kerry Kennedy and Andrew Cuomo have fostered a long-standing and unshakeable bond, with their camaraderie persisting through the years without faltering.
In 1999, Mauritania made a groundbreaking move in international relations by becoming the first Arab League country to formally establish diplomatic ties with Israel, paving the way for a major breakthrough in global diplomacy.
The German government is taking a proactive approach to driving progress, as evident in Agenda 2010 and tax reforms, which underscore its dedication to implementing lasting transformations through carefully planned policy measures.
At 94 years young, Lacy's enthusiasm for baseball remained steadfast, his dedication to the sport unshakeable and unwavering.
The 30-year US Treasury bond yield has recently decreased, currently sitting at 4.47%, after a small decline from its previous closing rate of 4.41%.
"I strongly deny the baseless accusation that I stole money from Jennifer Lopez, calling it a vicious and emotionally painful fabrication."
Russian authorities abruptly halted the unexpected departure of Khodorkovsky, eerily echoing the KGB's tactics of intimidation from the Soviet era.
The impasse between the two countries was finally resolved, ending a prolonged period of tension and hostility that had developed due to significant differences over North Korea's nuclear ambitions and the US's demands for their elimination.
Berry's two marriages came to an end in divorce, with the most recent one concluding with a separation in 1991.
Under Perkins' leadership, the University of Connecticut has witnessed substantial expansion since 1990, with the institution claiming six national titles across three sports, including men's and women's basketball and soccer, following his departure from Maryland.
AOL and CompuServe have faced serious reputational damage due to persistent failures to meet customer expectations, leading to a substantial loss of faith in their ability to deliver on their commitments.
The police officers' focus wavered as they were captivated by David Blaine's astounding illusions, causing a brief lapse in their usual vigilance.
A critical respiratory crisis is rapidly escalating in Taiwan, overwhelming hospitals as a sudden influx of patients arrives, with many being quarantined, and there are concerns that the situation could quickly deteriorate and spread widely.
In Banja Luka, roughly 2,000 individuals comprise a minority that identifies as Catholic, representing a tiny fraction of the city's total population.
Healthcare professionals are establishing makeshift medical centers in outdoor tents to redirect patients with contagious diseases to alleviate overcrowding in emergency departments.
In Mexico, the act of bounty hunting is widely regarded as a serious violation of human rights, leading to severe legal consequences and social condemnation for those who engage in it.
The Indonesian government has imposed a capital punishment on the leader of a militant organization, Imam Samudra, who was convicted of orchestrating a string of violent attacks.
Over the weekend, the top 12 movies raked in a whopping $157.1 million, representing a 52% surge in box office revenue compared to the same time last year.
At first, the engineers misjudged the extent of the damage because the video footage from the launch was deceptive.
Top executives at Merrill Lynch have managed to avoid taking responsibility for their choices, highlighting a weakness in the company's decision-making framework.
The S3C2440 CPU supports a range of operating systems, including Windows CE and Pocket PC, Palm OS, Symbian, and Linux, giving users the flexibility to select the most suitable option and streamline the integration process.
His kids were repeatedly warned about the dangers of overspending on credit cards, which can lead to serious financial problems if not managed wisely.
Participating in physical activities beyond dance does not seem to significantly lower the risk.
Studies have revealed that a persistent diet rich in fish can significantly decrease the likelihood of developing Alzheimer's disease, with a notable 60% reduction in risk observed among frequent fish consumers compared to those who rarely eat fish.
Despite the widespread notion that evening hours see a drop in foot traffic for physical stores, many consumers are surprisingly opting to visit brick-and-mortar locations during this period.
The US President promptly and decisively reacted to the devastating bus bombing in Israel, which resulted in the loss of 20 lives and was attributed to Hamas, by taking a series of swift and firm actions.
A standoff between an individual and police in the nation's capital and surrounding Virginia resulted in significant traffic gridlock, causing lengthy commutes for people traveling to work.
Failing to submit the report on time in May could lead to the company being delisted from the stock market.
The gas would flow unimpeded, reaching a searing temperature, comparable to the intense heat of a blowtorch, but with an even more formidable intensity.
Altria Group's stock surged 10% in value, resulting in a significant increase in its market capitalization, currently standing at $38.28 per share.
The OneNote note-taking software is available for £169.99, while InfoPath, a data collection tool that employs XML, costs £179.99, a slightly higher price.
A major cyber attack is expected to occur on Sunday, putting the internet's stability at risk, potentially leading to widespread outages and slow network speeds.
Ray Kroc's wife, Joan, succumbed to her battle with brain cancer after a prolonged and grueling fight, resulting in a surprising and unexpected outcome.
Liu Jinbao, the CEO of BOCHK, has made a surprise decision to relocate to Beijing, where he will pursue a new career direction and explore various professional avenues.
The daughters of Saddam Hussein reportedly leveraged their influential relationships to gain a secure exit to the UK, utilizing high-profile British organizations as a means of escape.
A senior representative from the European Union's agricultural department in Washington revealed that European agricultural ministers declined an invitation to a gathering due to their focus on negotiations to revitalize the EU's agricultural sector.
The illegal prescription drug trade has thrived, enabling its participants to indulge in a life of opulence, marked by excessive spending and substantial profits.
The Hubble-class "Great Observatories" program has achieved a significant milestone with the successful launch and deployment of the Space Infrared Telescope Facility, highlighting Lockheed Martin's impressive technological expertise.
Every person deserves dignity and respect, regardless of their emotional state or social relationships, even in challenging or contentious circumstances.
A significant portion of the $51 billion budget was earmarked for deploying American troops to Iraq, while an additional $10 billion was allocated for supporting US military personnel in Afghanistan.
Several mistakes on this assessment require immediate correction.
A 45-year-old man named Ruffner has chosen to represent himself in his murder trial, bypassing the usual practice of hiring a professional lawyer to defend him.
"It's wise to examine the meeting agenda in advance to decide if it's feasible for our entire team to participate in the event at the same time."
South Korea boasts an exceptionally developed digital scene, with over 20% of its population enthusiastically embracing the online world, a testament to the country's cutting-edge digital infrastructure.
Despite employee worries, Chairman Robert Bennett turned a blind eye, while key figure Mills chose to remain uninvolved with the matter.
The company's annual profit surged to a significant $446 million, translating to 7 cents per share, driven largely by its impressive $6.3 billion in revenue generated over the past 12 months.
"We respect the right to solitude and ensure that individuals who prefer to keep to themselves are not disturbed without their explicit permission."
Thomson First Call, a financial analyst firm, forecasts a potential earnings per share range of 16 to 27 cents.
Brendsel will continue to lead the Freddie Mac Foundation, guiding the development and implementation of the organization's key projects and goals.
Taiwan's economy has experienced a severe downturn, echoing the economic struggles faced during the SARS outbreak, which has led to a substantial decline in consumer spending and a sharp drop in commercial transactions among retailers, restaurants, and airport service providers.
The company is updating its quarterly financial reports to reflect the results of its partnership with Compaq, guaranteeing that all information is up-to-date and trustworthy as it becomes available.
Oracle's stock has seen a significant surge in value, with its current market price sitting at $13.60 per share.
According to John C. McCarthy, CEO of Forrester Group, some companies are unfairly exaggerating the financial benefits of outsourcing, and certain service providers are overstating the advantages of their own offerings.
The sudden postponement of the prime minister's trial has created uncertainty among his co-defendants, making it difficult for them to predict when the trial will wrap up.
The progress of genetically modified crops is being slowed down by European governments' unjustified concerns.
The head of the US Federal Reserve, a significant institution, exercises significant influence over interest rates, ultimately influencing the country's economic landscape.
A renowned energy expert at the London-based Center for Global Energy Studies, Manouchehr Takin, clarifies that the entities in question do not come under the organization's jurisdiction or regulatory oversight.
The brother of Amrozi, a witness, was accused of intentionally providing misleading information and manipulating the truth to benefit himself.
Original predictions of a major boost in British exports have been scaled back, with a more moderate increase now expected instead.
Sony's membership program creates a tailored digital collection of multimedia content, including images, audio files, music videos, and more, tailored to each individual's distinct tastes and preferences.
Renowned actors James Brolin and Judy Davis masterfully portray the iconic figures of Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the film, utilizing their extensive acting experience to bring the couple to life.
In the past year, American Airlines has shed around 6,500 jobs in Missouri, leading to a substantial decrease in the airline's employee count in the state.
"The ECB's communication problems go beyond just being unclear, they are rooted in a deeper issue."
To reach your full potential, it's crucial to constantly seek diverse perspectives, rigorously analyzing and enhancing your skills and understanding through a lifelong cycle of learning and refinement.
Giving hormone therapy to women after chemotherapy resulted in a significant increase in their survival rates, implying a more promising outlook for their long-term health.
A new entity will oversee the Interwoven brand and establish its central operations in Sunnyvale.
A high-ranking official from G + J is currently appearing in a New York State Supreme Court to defend the company against claims that it breached its contractual obligations, with O'Donnell representing the company's interests.
Two people wearing Halloween costumes have been connected to a strange incident at the US Capitol, according to Chief Terrance Gainer.
A prominent global corporation has acquired the paper manufacturing division of Buhrmann, a well-established European paper supplier, which is itself a subsidiary of a major Dutch office supplies conglomerate.
A scholar, Gelinas, thoroughly analyzed a thoughtfully selected collection of six unique cases.
The reliance on a solitary operating system amplifies the likelihood of cyber attacks, as a solitary weakness can have devastating outcomes and render the entire user community vulnerable to targeted attacks.
A court in New York has issued a directive requiring Viacom to cease all use of the name "Spike TV effective immediately."
About 2.3 million immigration-related applications annually can be broadly categorized into two primary types.
The auditors failed to conduct a comprehensive review of the clergy's personnel files during their inquiry.
The S&P 500 index jumped by nearly 1%, ending the day at 929.06, a total increase of 8.79 points.
Italian authorities searched Tanzi's home in the Parma region, but he was nowhere to be found, allegedly fleeing to a hidden location outside the country.
To truly stand out, concentrate on utilizing your exclusive talents and repeatedly deliver exceptional outcomes.
A worldwide alert has been issued to Ghanaian law enforcement and Interpol, and will be forwarded to global authorities.
He has been unashamedly reckless in his pursuit of pleasure, marked by a string of romantic conquests and unconventional ways of satiating his desires.
Amrozi declined to disclose the name of his employer or his immediate supervisor.
According to the World Wildlife Fund, approximately 13,000 animals are saved annually from the Straits of Gibraltar and its surroundings.
The prospects for future income growth are unclear, making it difficult to determine whether the current trend is a sustainable pattern or a short-lived anomaly.
Mallard is facing serious allegations of being behind a catastrophic incident that took place approximately two years ago, and of hindering the legal investigation that ensued.
A notable gap exists between the impressive technical expertise of NASA's staff and the significant power wielded by the agency's top officials.
The parent company of Drax, AES Corporation, has suspended its plans to restructure Drax's finances after its initial proposal was rejected by creditors.
The pharmaceutical sector is facing immense strain as governments quickly roll out vaccination initiatives to address the escalating concern about biological threats that put both civilians and military personnel at risk of significant and lasting harm.
Intel has launched a revolutionary processor that seamlessly integrates with mobile devices, smart devices, and wireless accessories, providing unparalleled processing capabilities and innovative functionality.
As the election date approaches, election officials are growing anxious about the rapidly dwindling time frame to guarantee a seamless and incident-free voting process.
Apple is collaborating with Oxford Semiconductor and the manufacturers of the affected storage devices to resolve a problem stemming from a flaw in the Oxford 922 chipset.
The person claimed they were coerced into committing the bank robbery and urgently asked law enforcement to step in and disable the bomb before it exploded.
Harold and his team faced the daunting challenge of conveying the devastating news to Mr. Warner, informing him of a tragic event that had claimed the lives of six unsuspecting individuals.
The video shows the precise moment when the ball hits the ground, narrowly dodging Sangakkara's foot by mere seconds.
A provisional administration is being established in Iraq, with a leader chosen by the US, and a team of specialists is working together to develop a comprehensive plan outlining the nation's trajectory.
Nina Axelrod, the daughter of the deceased, revealed to the Associated Press that her father's death was sudden and unexpected, occurring while he was resting and resulting in no time for preparation or warning.
The stock market has experienced a notable surge, driven by optimism that the economy will make a full recovery by the end of 2024.
The North American futures market is anticipated to begin the day with a cautious atmosphere on Tuesday, as investors prepare to thoroughly review quarterly earnings reports for the first time.
A team of scientists at Stony Brook University conducted a 1996 study to explore the link between electromagnetic radiation and cancer, following up on earlier findings that suggested a possible connection between the two.
After her divorce in September 2001, Joanie Harper was granted full custody of her two kids, Marques and Lyndsey.
David Beckham is projected to earn a minimum of $10 million each year, with his total earnings potentially reaching $220,000 per match if he fulfills specific performance goals.
"A pioneering initiative is underway to address the pervasive issue of sexual misconduct, striving to eradicate it entirely from our society."
Nelson's prison term has been significantly reduced, and he is now looking at a maximum of 10 years in prison, a drastic decrease from the life sentence he initially received.
The guidance I received from Sir Alex Ferguson had a profound impact on my football career, and I am forever grateful for the transformative personal development I underwent under his mentorship.
The President and his brother's no-show at the Florida event echoed their earlier no-show at the Texas event, leaving attendees feeling let down and deprived of the expected experience.
This agreement has no financial consequences for individuals, neither requiring additional expenses nor affecting their income.
The East African region has been gripped by a prolonged era of terrorism, characterized by a succession of brutal attacks that have had a profound and lasting impact on the region's stability and security.
The governments have remained steadfast in their original strategy, ignoring growing demands to alter their approach.
After initially concealing their identity, the 39-year-old individual finally disclosed their true name to the authorities.
A pivotal week is approaching, spanning from October 10th to 17th, during which the introduction of two pivotal male figures will significantly shift the direction of the story.
Companies that frequently launch new products on their menus may encounter obstacles.
The governor is convening an emergency meeting with state legislators to expedite the passage of a revised electoral district map.
The duo showcased their incredible physical prowess, mesmerizing the crowd with their extraordinary athletic accomplishments at a press gathering held at a medical facility.
Mr. Klein intends to brief Mr. Cheney on Canada's consistent history of delivering a stable energy supply.
I was surprised when a woman's voice answered the phone, and it turned out she was in the middle of a call with Toby Studabaker, a person Sherry Studabaker had previously mentioned in a BBC TV interview.
The Air Force's internal auditors are collaborating with the Department of Defense to conduct a meticulous and comprehensive review.
The proposed plan is predicted to bring about a substantial shift in the composition of Congress, resulting in a net gain of 12 Republican seats and 5 Democratic seats, ultimately leading to a Republican majority of 22 to 17.
The Saudi Arabian government has released the itinerary of Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal through official announcements from two government departments.
A senior government official in Rowland's administration has confessed to accepting lavish gifts, including gold and cash, which allegedly influenced the allocation of state contracts, prompting an investigation that began in March.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist is pressing Congress to wrap up its outstanding tasks by the end of September.
The Myanmar government strives to foster a unified atmosphere where diverse political groups can collaborate and build a collective sense of national identity among its citizens.
She brought immense enthusiasm to the crowd in New Orleans, declaring that Louisiana's moment of recognition had finally come and it was long overdue for the state to receive the widespread acclaim it so richly merited.
Jimmy Hoffa, 62, disappeared without a trace on July 30, 1975, after leaving a parking lot in Oakland County, near Detroit, leaving behind a baffling and enduring mystery.
China operates autonomously, unencumbered by external influences, which enables it to set its own agenda and pursue its goals and principles at a speed and in a manner tailored to its distinct circumstances.
Argentina has finally agreed to a plan with the International Monetary Fund, a proposal that was first put forward six months ago, and it is anticipated to be completed by August, securing a $6.8 billion loan refinancing deal.
Toronto has now gone 24 hours without recording a single new COVID-19 infection, a remarkable streak that has persisted since April 19 and remains unbroken.
Through the acquisition of Ximian from Novell, we will gain a vast treasure trove of expertise and know-how, allowing us to deepen our connections with customers and efficiently incorporate open-source technologies into our offerings.
X2 has achieved a notable financial milestone in just three weeks, accumulating a substantial amount of $174 million, with a significant increase of $17.1 million occurring within a single week.
The woman was heartbroken when the authorities refused her request to attend her father's funeral on the island, despite her repeated appeals to have the decision reconsidered.
