While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He added : " Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million last week and was still counting money .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > rose 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
" By its actions , " Lieberman said , " the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war . "
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was " very methodical . "
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were " allegedly " assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
" A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person , " he said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks , which officers delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Writing for the minority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The previous biggest R rated opening was " Hannibal 's " $ 58 million .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's thin margins of safety .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years , " he said .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " he said .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , " Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference last night .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His movies include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam , " " Jungle Fever " and " Do the Right Thing . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well . "
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
" It is highly conditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . "
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
" We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " he said .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was ' especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
" Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people . "
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
" My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would know . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
" Selling it symbolically writes ' Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , " he said .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
At home , the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not supplied or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter " in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
" We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , " she said .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Beginning sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be encouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic was targeted because it was handling opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O 'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen " a bit short . "
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges , will now to trial in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday , there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days , the police chief said .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by more than 10 percent .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Parker said Moore 's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were " inappropriate . "
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset , Sapp said .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
A Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned by others as a " rebellion against God 's created order . "
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now indefinite .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while taking in only $ 39.5 million .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
" In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD , founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
There was no transcript of Thursday 's courtroom session in Tarrytown , which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile , investigators said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative — but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , including heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
The lawsuit names Shelley , a Democrat , and registrars in Los Angeles , Orange and San Diego counties .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been scheduled for this morning .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn 't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
" We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln . "
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs , the analyst firm said .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , " said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed , Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor " large scale bribery " would solve the issue .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants showed no remorse .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
MSNBC.com first reported the CIA request on Friday .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who ran the illegal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , " Tunick said Sunday .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen born in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was " not an international public health concern . "
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market , " said Rusty Wood , chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too much power to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr. Muhammad , 42 , and 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial separately Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
" The future of BA is in the hands of the negotiators , " Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first major as a champion .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing a security guard .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has been elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG & E Corp. shares jumped $ 1.63 or 8 percent to $ 21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Mr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , claimed the deal made sense for both companies .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , an American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , being published online Monday .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
An Associated Press report is included .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Still , changes to IE " may affect a large number of existing Web pages , " according to the W3C 's notice .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
" Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are lucky to catch one , " Myers said .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
" Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can do it justice . "
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " Burg said .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer power management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He would often call me for advice , " said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had represented him in court .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tuesday ’ s testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
" It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night : " We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while light truck sales--which include vans , pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster , 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
" Those rating present business conditions as ' bad ' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , " the report said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president last November , as acting CEO .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to launch cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
Even with time , he said , " it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death . "
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
O 'Connor wrote , " We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary . "
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly : ``He did a bad job going up there , ' ' he said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project , a reform of energy laws and constitutional changes .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , " the specialist said yesterday .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Turkish troops almost surely would become targets for terrorists , the ambassador said .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $ 6.7 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The current plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
It was predicted to become a Category I hurricane overnight .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Researchers found that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom , General Electric is seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will end its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the death of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely .
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
" It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM . "
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Joining him in the majority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O 'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 , " to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no leads in Biggs ' death until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok , including the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position , rather than a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's rise .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
That victim , a New Jersey resident , was in critical but stable condition at the hospital .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
" It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly being treated as Americans . "
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite added 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Treasury prices gained for the third day in a row , pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
She was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , her mother said .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
The only difference is a tuner , a small piece of electronics . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
It went on : " I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
Only Intel 's 0.3 percent yield is lower .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A member of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit / s .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Florida 's primary will be March 9 , after 28 states ' primaries or caucuses .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
Financial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the end of August , were not disclosed .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
An investigation by BaFin , the German financial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk controls .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control in the last week of May .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of future memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the ground , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had been asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The Conference Board said its measure of business confidence , which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
The evacuation orders were not mandatory, and residents were free to make their own decisions about leaving their homes.
Michael Mitchell, the chief public defender in Baton Rouge, was unavailable for comment on Wednesday, as his phone calls went unreturned.
A strategy should be developed to ensure a smooth transition from a state of conflict to one of peaceful harmony.
Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich is expected to receive a substantial campaign contribution exceeding $1 million.
The S&P 500 index rose by 0.39%, resulting in a 3-point increase, bringing its overall value to 924.
The vulnerability specifically affects Windows 2000 systems that have Service Pack 3 or 4 installed, excluding those that have been updated with the latest security patches.
A woman has been formally accused of committing three murders and was denied bail by the judge, who ordered her to remain in custody until further investigation is conducted.
The President's declaration of the cessation of major combat on May 1 was followed by a tragic reality, as at least 29 American soldiers have died in the ensuing weeks due to ongoing military activities.
"A Democratic representative from Connecticut expressed concerns at a Capitol Hill press conference that the Bush administration's decisions may compromise the moral reputation of a war that was originally justified on moral grounds."
Windows XP 64-Bit Edition is a 64-bit operating system that is specifically designed to run efficiently on computers with AMD Athlon 64 and Opteron processors, and is mainly intended for use on desktops and workstations.
The perpetrator displayed exceptional skill in thoroughly scrutinizing every crime scene, showcasing a remarkable attention to detail.
A high-ranking Intel executive recently expressed regret over the current wireless technology landscape, describing it as overly intricate and frustratingly hard to configure.
Georgia's health director, Dr. Melinda Rowe, stressed that the state cannot afford to cut back on its financial backing.
The company underwent a significant overhaul in 2001, adopting a new name, Syndia, and renovating its internal framework and image.
The woman has been struggling with a long-standing issue of chronic knee inflammation, which has resulted in the development of persistent scarring on her knees, legs, and ankles.
You can access a high-quality software for a mere 20 cents per day.
A person ordered a total of six pizzas and drinks, and the delivery personnel promptly brought them to their designated spot.
A sophisticated network of financial transactions has been created by Muslim immigrants, utilizing methods like wire transfers, courier services, and overnight mail to send money to their family members and loved ones overseas.
The compensation committee has introduced a new guideline, prohibiting individuals with connections to the financial sector from holding positions on the committee.
The judge compared the methods used to question Martinez to a manipulative approach that takes advantage of someone's emotional weaknesses to extract a false admission of guilt.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has historically relied on the Russian space agency to facilitate the transportation of both astronauts and cargo to the International Space Station, thereby ensuring a crucial connection for both personnel and supplies.
The previous record for a film with an R rating at the box office was held by "Hannibal," which grossed $58 million.
The department sent water and soil samples to a state-run health laboratory for additional testing.
In the past year, there has been a remarkable 56% increase in the advanced services provided through various digital channels, culminating in a major achievement by June.
The safety margin of the space shuttle program steadily decreased throughout the 1990s as a result of decreasing funding and the implementation of cost-cutting measures to address financial constraints.
Fourteen Kurdish individuals arrived on Melville Island by boat, making a unexpected entry, yet they did not pursue asylum claims.
"This package is forecasted to yield significant financial advantages for our employees, resulting in a notable improvement in their financial situation over the next four years."
Troy's commitment to the Catholic Church was profound, radiating from the core of his being with unwavering passion.
The family sat in an uncomfortable silence, the tension between them and their son-in-law's family palpable and difficult to ignore.
Intel alleged that Hamidi breached their computer security by accessing their systems without authorization, likening it to unauthorized trespassing in a private residence.
The US Secretary of State, Kerry, has introduced a UN resolution calling for a US-led military operation, with the UN taking responsibility for addressing the political and humanitarian fallout.
Estonia is embracing the arrival of spring, signaling a return to traditional European climate conditions, as Prime Minister Juhan Parts revealed at a recent press conference.
Lady Mary kindly extended an invitation to her Double Bay home to thank her for the thoughtful gift.
As the Monday deadline loomed, prominent media moguls rushed to submit their proposals for Vivendi Universal's coveted American entertainment assets, which included valuable and lucrative Hollywood brands.
The director's most notable achievements are the highly acclaimed movies "Malcolm X", "Summer of Sam", and "Jungle Fever", which have garnered widespread acclaim.
The head of SSE revealed a proposal to divest its Turkish and Pakistani power generation assets to International Power Plc for £21 million, with the acquiring company being a UK-based utility firm.
Christian Ganczarski is scheduled to appear before a specialized court that deals with anti-terrorism matters at an airport, where he will likely be formally presented to the court.
The airline's representative, Volodymyr Gorbanovsky, attributes the unexpected deviation from the planned route to the unusually thick fog.
The verdict was announced on Wednesday, shortly after the jury started deliberating, following a 2.5-week trial in which Waagner represented himself.
Bashir's endorsement was not just a formality, as he also inspired and motivated us to reach our objective, leading to impressive outcomes.
Nine Democratic hopefuls were scheduled to gather for a forum, where they would each take the stage to express their distinct perspectives.
Burns believed that confessing to a crime he didn't commit was the only way to avoid being caught.
Seven countries, including the UK, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, and Spain, have joined forces to work together on this project.
IBM's CEO, Dan Powers, asserts that the market for high-performance supercomputers is not threatened by the rise of pre-configured PC clusters.
The company is facing significant obstacles due to regulatory issues, threatening to significantly impair its normal operations.
The group believes that the key to success lies in creating a versatile format that seamlessly interacts with a wide range of devices, while also enabling the combination of different formats.
He reiterated his commitment to continuing discussions with Ford and G.M. until a mutually advantageous deal is achieved.
The upcoming visit is of utmost importance, especially considering the ongoing COVID-19 crisis.
A group of attackers stormed into the mosque, unleashing a hail of gunfire on the people inside, a witness recounted to the Associated Press.
Mr. Shelby advocates for the release of most information to the public and its declassification, arguing that this would enable Americans to be more informed, as he highlighted during his NBC's "Meet the Press" interview.
The finalization of the sale marks the end of a pivotal era in the leadership of our local school system.
It is suspected that the Parson intentionally attempted to compromise or damage a computer system.
Top officials from the US and UK are accused of manipulating intelligence information to fabricate evidence of weapons of mass destruction, allegedly as a pretext for launching military strikes.
Researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden revisited the medical records of more than 2,000 infants who underwent radiation treatment for a benign birthmark between 1930 and 1959.
Microsoft is tying the stock incentives of its top 600 executives to specific targets focused on improving customer satisfaction and driving revenue growth.
A sluggish and powerful tropical storm, Henri, brought an extraordinary amount of rainfall to Florida on Friday, further complicating the state's already severe flooding problems in its lakes and waterways.
While investigating at the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad, journalist David Blair unexpectedly came across the documents, rather than them being willingly disclosed to the public.
The extent to which outside specialists are participating in the investigation is unclear, leaving it ambiguous whether a single expert or multiple experts are working together to facilitate the process.
A disgruntled person, driven by feelings of resentment towards the US Postal Service, stormed into a suburban post office, taking two employees captive.
Investors can choose to switch their traditional paper bonds to electronic bonds, but this process is entirely optional.
The Avenues Clinic was selected due to its reputation for offering healthcare services to individuals with ties to the opposing political faction.
A remarkable woman is about to mark her 81st birthday, and in a gesture of appreciation for her remarkable kindness, she has been recognized by Sarah O'Hare, a renowned model and actor who advocates for the National Breast Cancer Foundation.
In Somalia, a considerable number of girls between the ages of 10 and 19 are unaware of the facts about HIV/AIDS, with a staggering 74% having no knowledge of the condition and a disturbingly low 99% unable to identify effective methods for preventing its transmission.
Mr. Gilbertson would have been entitled to receive these retirement benefits regardless of the reasons behind his departure from the organization.
A catastrophic explosion struck a government building in northern Chechnya, claiming the lives of 59 people just two days after a previous event.
Andrew Luster, heir to the MAX Factor cosmetics fortune, was caught in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, following a prolonged global manhunt initiated to bring him to justice for his alleged participation in a sexual assault incident.
Massachusetts has outlawed the death penalty, resulting in a unique situation where the federal government has conducted executions in a state that doesn't have its own capital punishment laws, with Michigan being the other exception.
The team's results had fallen short of what was hoped for.
Gary Lee Sampson is scheduled to stand trial in September, where he will be prosecuted for the capital offenses he is accused of and the circumstances surrounding the charges against him.
In the Toronto metropolitan area, where approximately four million people reside, the number of suspected cases decreased to 64 on Tuesday, a drop from the 66 cases reported the day before.
Palm is considering moving the employees of Handspring to its main office in Milpitas, California.
Police arrested a key suspect on Monday in relation to the kidnapping of a 9-year-old girl, who had vanished from her home but was later discovered safe and sound after a two-day search.
The city of Basra is grappling with an intense heatwave, as its cooling systems are being severely strained by scorching temperatures that have reached a blistering 49 degrees Celsius.
A forthcoming report from the board is scheduled for release in late August, and it will not identify particular individuals as being accountable for the tragic Columbia space shuttle accident, which resulted in the loss of seven astronauts' lives, as revealed by Gehman.
The percentage of people between the ages of 60 and 69 who have a disability decreased by more than 10%.
Tom Parker has appointed his representative to handle a grievance, and they will be discussing it with Moore's legal team on Monday.
It has been reported that around 300 employees were taken into custody at 61 retail stores in 21 different states.
A high-profile Saudi individual with ties to Al Qaeda and a key suspect in the Riyadh bombing incidents has evaded capture.
Mr Koizumi sharply rebuked Mr Konoike, deeming his remarks utterly unacceptable.
The organization is focusing on upgrading its enterprise software infrastructure by integrating the strengths of.NET and J2EE technologies, with a key goal of refining its mainframe setup for enhanced performance.
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Comoros Islands native, is a high-priority fugitive with a prominent place on the FBI's most wanted list.
A suspect is thought to be connected to a string of bombings, with two high-profile attacks being the 1996 Atlanta Olympics bombing and a subsequent blast in Alabama.
The groundbreaking verdict sparked widespread jubilation within the LGBTQ+ community for its profound impact, whereas religious organizations vehemently criticized it as a provocative assault on their deeply held beliefs.
The homecoming activities for the 3rd Squadron, 7th Cavalry Regiment have been postponed indefinitely until further instructions are received.
The American Red Cross is facing a financial challenge, having utilized a substantial $114 million to support disaster relief initiatives since June, but has only received a relatively small $40 million in contributions.
"We didn't intend to single out any particular person or group, and we didn't mean to perpetuate harmful biases or hostility."
GeCAD Software, a privately held firm founded in 1992, has been providing antivirus and security software under the RAV AntiVirus label since 1994.
Lloyds TSB is pondering the possibility of divesting its assets in National Bank of New Zealand.
A court hearing failed to occur in Tarrytown, a modest town situated 12 miles north of New York City, which borders the Hudson River.
A 76-year-old jeweler from New York's diamond district, Yehuda Abraham, allegedly received a $30,000 payment from Lakhani in exchange for acquiring missiles, as documented in official records.
The company's lease obligations have been reduced by £600 million, now totaling £1.6 billion, which may help overcome a significant hurdle to their US exit.
Mark Young often utilized Tyco's corporate plane for his business trips, often accompanying Kozlowski on his journeys.
A groundbreaking treatment has been found to dramatically slow down the progression of a sight-threatening condition that is the primary cause of visual impairment in older adults.
The move represented a significant achievement in the Bush administration's campaign to break down barriers and facilitate regulatory advancement.
Prior to confirming the existence of long or short gene variants, it is crucial to conduct further scientific research to guarantee the accuracy of the results.
Despite cooperating with law enforcement agencies, including the FBI and local authorities, Gehring's assistance did not yield any valuable leads that could help find the missing children.
The stock's price plummeted by 17% on Friday, closing at $5.91, a substantial drop of $1.24 from the previous day's closing price on the Nasdaq market.
As the explosion subsided, approximately 150 people were freed from the wreckage as rescue crews rapidly responded to the scene.
He has committed to a rigorous daily regimen, investing three hours a day in football training to facilitate his body's healing and has managed to lose 17 kilograms since October.
This condition is associated with a heightened susceptibility to heart disease, kidney disease, and vision impairment, and in extreme cases, may necessitate limb amputations.
A legal action has been officially commenced against Shelley, Conny McCormack, the Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters, and the registrars of Orange and San Diego counties.
Goodyear's quarterly financial reports, initially scheduled for release on Thursday, have been postponed and will now be made available in November.
Following a warning of legal repercussions from Hewitt's legal team, ATP issued a second statement, revealing that Hewitt's original lawsuit had undergone revisions.
He attributes his fascination with politics to the valuable lessons he learned during his time as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford University, where he gained a profound appreciation for the trust's impressive achievements.
IBM is set to participate in the group and make substantial contributions towards achieving its goals, as confirmed by the Common Engineering Leadership Forum.
Over the past three decades, the attorney general's viewpoint has undergone a dramatic shift, with his current stance now starkly contrasting with his earlier beliefs.
Viacom's legal team claims that the term "Spike" is a common name with no inherent connection to Lee, rendering it unworthy of trademark protection.
The speaker advocates for a more balanced representation of women in the police and military units deployed to UN peacekeeping missions, urging participating nations to prioritize gender parity.
By leveraging his celebrity status, he created a unique online space where his devoted fans could engage with him directly through a special website, enabling instant and personalized phone conversations.
A massive $70 million project is set to launch in the near future, with the main goal of revitalizing local communities and boosting grassroots efforts.
According to Richard Verheij, the vice president, fostering open dialogue enables adult smokers to make more informed choices.
The individual responsible for the attack claimed that the Taliban, which was ousted from power in 2001, was responsible, and it's possible that the bomber perished in the blast.
New York Senator Charles Schumer has sent a letter to President Bush, urging swift action on the pending legislative bills.
The speaker is urging the new leaders of the Archdiocese of Boston to confront and take responsibility for the institution's historical errors.
After the influence of two wavering lawmakers, a Democrat from Nebraska and a Republican from Ohio, the bill was ultimately approved.
Massive lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to withdraw cash from ATMs as Israel prepared for a potential strike that threatened to greatly impact its daily routine.
The Central Intelligence Agency has confirmed that two American contractors working for the agency were tragically killed in a violent incident in Afghanistan.
Designing a robust and secure computer network for 190,000 government employees across the country, who are pivotal in the fight against terrorism, would be a daunting task that demands the involvement of experienced and skilled IT professionals.
Business executives are hesitating to modernize their workplace computers, largely due to a reluctance to adapt to new technology.
"We're making consistent progress as we focus on achieving our business objectives and striving for financial prosperity."
The company's financial situation received an unexpected lift due to a 5% surge in sales, exceeding predicted projections.
A judge has allowed several media organizations, such as The Seattle Times, the Associated Press, and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, to access and publish previously confidential documents after they submitted formal requests.
The upcoming smartphone will be the inaugural device to utilize the Windows Mobile 2003 operating system, as revealed by the mobile network provider in a recent statement.
According to Wolfowitz, neither the specter of military intervention nor the prevalence of corruption will effectively address the North Korean crisis.
Judge William Barbour imposed the highest possible penalty on Avants, citing his complete absence of remorse for the atrocious offense.
The initial report was aired on MSNBC on a Friday.
The company has allocated a budget of $4.4 billion for research and development, a moderate rise from its initial projection of $4.3 billion.
A woman, Josephine Burke, who operated an unregistered day care facility, received a four-month prison sentence following her conviction for mistreating and abandoning the children under her supervision.
Tropical Storm Claudette is gradually approaching the Texas coast and is expected to strengthen into a hurricane by Tuesday, with a predicted arrival on that day.
Researchers at Imperial College London discovered that a specific hormone has the potential to significantly diminish hunger pangs in people with a normal body mass index.
He vowed to draw a massive and impressive gathering to a legendary location, making the declaration at the renowned Grand Central Terminal.
The Nasdaq has experienced a significant turnaround, rising by 21.2% since March 11, following a sharp decline that took it to its lowest point since October.
The tuxedo shop was a front for a criminal organization that laundered money obtained through credit card fraud by investing it in legitimate enterprises.
Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and William Sampson, a Glasgow native, are facing the possibility of being executed.
The most recent case does not exhibit the typical signs of SARS and does not represent a substantial risk to the general well-being of the population.
For the third time in just four years, a series of intense wildfires has ravaged the region, causing significant disruptions and unparalleled destruction.
Rusty Wood, the chairman of the coalition, claims that the NAFTA decision reveals that Canadian lumber producers are overwhelming the US market with an overabundance of their goods.
Cindy Cohn, the Electronic Frontier Foundation's legal director, thinks that the DMCA's rules give copyright owners too much freedom to decide how to enforce their rights.
In late October 2002, Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo were caught at a Maryland highway rest stop, with their trial set to commence on November 10.
The airline's future is precarious, with the outcome dependent on the decisions of the negotiators.
Three distinguished astronauts, Story Musgrave, Robert Gibson, and Daniel Brandenstein, are slated to be enshrined in the hall of fame for their remarkable accomplishments.
On his first Father's Day as a father, Jim Furyk achieved a remarkable milestone in a high-profile golf tournament, winning his first major championship.
A suicide bomber carried out a devastating attack near the United Nations headquarters on a Monday, claiming the lives of a security personnel and the bomber himself.
Monsanto has named Grant to its board of directors, according to a recent announcement.
The stock market experienced a substantial jump, climbing 11% to finish the day at $21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange, resulting in a $2.11 gain.
Researchers have investigated how people respond to unusual and unpredictable circumstances.
The doctor questioned the reliability of the mathematical equation that led to the reported figure being cited.
"Halla's assessment indicates that the agreement is advantageous for all parties involved."
A representative from Corpus Christi made two phone calls to Escobar during a protest in Ardmore, Oklahoma, where Escobar was joined by fellow Democratic politicians.
A petition focuses on a specific product, a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate, widely utilized in various sectors for tasks like manufacturing, tooling, and die-making.
A concentration of 0.20 parts per million of ozone in the air over a one-hour period triggers an alarm.
A particular species indigenous to Oregon was initially suited to a temperature of 65 degrees, yet surprisingly, it flourished when the aquarium's temperature soared to 87 degrees.
In April, the housing market saw a notable surge in demand as homebuyers enthusiastically snapped up both new and existing properties, largely fueled by the attractive interest rates on mortgage loans.
The lawyer petitioned the Bali court to throw out the case, contending that it didn't have the jurisdiction to handle this particular dispute.
The latest results of the research study have been published in the most recent edition of Cancer, the official publication of the American Cancer Society, and can be viewed online right now.
After John Smith's unexpected death from a heart attack in 1994, Tony Blair took over as the leader of the Labour Party following his predecessor's untimely demise.
For your awareness, an article from the Associated Press has been made available.
The governing body for internet standards warns that altering Internet Explorer could lead to substantial consequences for numerous websites currently in use.
Recent research has shown that long-line fishing, which used to produce 10 catches per 100 hooks, has experienced a notable decline in output, with the current success rate being significantly lower at just one catch per 100 hooks.
A disturbing case has emerged, in which a parent is suspected of having a role in their child's untimely and devastating demise through self-harm.
The SEC is likely to initiate legal proceedings in the near future.
I strongly believe that Lowes Motor Speedway is the ideal setting for The Winston to showcase its remarkable heritage to its fullest extent.
Many Kenyan women have filed lawsuits against the UK's Ministry of Defence, accusing British military personnel of committing sexual assaults against them.
The company's internal documents failed to provide a clear reason behind the widespread disruption.
If convicted, Ciobanu faces the possibility of serving a 15-year prison sentence, as Romania's newly enacted cybercrime legislation aims to criminally prosecute individuals for their digital actions.
Mary Kathryn Miller, a 55-year-old woman, was arrested by state police on November 20th and charged with a severe theft crime, categorized as first-degree theft.
Vivendi Universal is planning to begin reviewing bids for its US entertainment assets, a portfolio of companies featuring some of the most iconic names in American cinema, starting on Monday.
A massive crowd of more than 1,000 people came together to express their worries about relying on genetically modified foods to address global food issues.
This cutting-edge chip features a sophisticated power and thermal management system, carefully designed to harmonize processing speed and heat dissipation.
My lawyer, Ronald L. Kuby, would frequently seek my input on matters, as he valued my insight and frequently consulted with me for guidance in his handling of my harassment case.
A number of countries, including Russia, France, and China, are urging the United Nations to formally recognize the Iraqi government backed by the United States, with the goal of enhancing its international credibility.
The forthcoming testimony will offer a detailed look at the development and marketing of tax shelter schemes.
The White House Press Secretary, Taylor Gross, expressed dismay that Senator Clinton is attempting to transform the confirmation hearing for Governor Leavitt into a political show, despite Leavitt's impressive qualifications.
WorldCom is rebranding itself as MCI, a move intended to revamp its image and reputation following a significant financial scandal that resulted in an $11 billion accounting loss.
"A thorough investigation is being conducted, with the involvement of outside specialists, as previously announced."
Xerox's stock closed at $11.45, rising by 2 cents, and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The computer's fundamental configuration features a 2.0 GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128MB of RAM, a 40GB hard drive, and a CD player, all available for $729 in US currency.
A high-ranking Saudi Arabian government official, allegedly Saud al-Faisal, is scheduled to visit the country, as revealed by unnamed government sources.
The escalating frequency of shooting incidents had become so severe that Moose was compelled to admit that he could no longer ensure the community's security.
The automotive industry witnessed a downturn in car sales, with a 8% decline, while the demand for light trucks, including vans, pickups, and SUVs, showed a more modest growth of 2.7%.
A tragic plane crash in Turkey has resulted in the loss of 62 Spanish peacekeepers who were en route back to their homeland.
The upcoming audit of the Department of Environmental Quality will need to be delayed due to the project's expected completion date, which is three months away.
Two influential politicians, Senator Vi Simpson and Joe Andrew, a veteran Democratic leader, are competing for the Democratic party's presidential nomination.
New data reveals that nearly a third of people, specifically 30.4%, perceive the business environment as unfavorable, a 2.3 percentage point increase from the 28.1% reported in June.
Trevor Fetter, the current president of Tenet, has been serving as the company's acting chief executive since November.
Comcast's Class A stock saw a slight increase, increasing by 8 cents to $30.50, in the early hours of trading on the Nasdaq exchange.
Lt-Col Yang, a Chinese military officer, was selected from a pool of 14 individuals, and his upbringing is characterized by a strong connection to education and farming, as his father is both an educator and a respected figure in the agricultural sector.
The latest operation saw a seamless collaboration among law enforcement agencies, far surpassing initial projections.
The idea of prescribing medication to deliberately impair a patient's mental abilities in order to bring about their death raises complex ethical dilemmas for healthcare professionals.
The Galveston County District Attorney's office has secured audio recordings.
According to ECB President Wim Duisenberg, it's too early to discuss further interest rate cuts in the eurozone.
Whispers are circulating that two influential members of the Jordanian royal family, who enjoy strong connections to the monarch, are being eyed as possible heirs to the throne.
Belgium has decided to rescind a controversial legislation that had resulted in legal proceedings against both George W. Bush, the former US President, and Ariel Sharon, the former Israeli Prime Minister.
Determining the specific cause of the person's death would be a difficult and complex process.
British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline has revealed that it will no longer supply medications to Canadian pharmacies that illegally export their products to the US market.
Justice O'Connor predicts that racial preferences will eventually become a relic of the past within a quarter-century.
The individual did not meet the expected standards in that specific assignment.
The UK's ambassador to the UN, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, is scheduled to lead a Security Council mission to the area in mid-May.
Sanchez de Lozada vowed to put a contentious gas project to a national referendum, reform the country's market-based energy laws, and revise the constitution to address concerns.
"The latest findings from the inquiry are revealing encouraging signs, implying a positive outlook."
"I've been open and honest about my personal life, sharing my experiences with remarkable candor and vulnerability."
"Robert A. Eckert, CEO, revealed that the company's quarterly sales failed to meet projections, largely attributed to a decline in retail inventory levels and a decline in market share."
The Turkish ambassador has voiced concerns that Turkey's military may be vulnerable to an attack.
Specialists predict that the company's third-quarter earnings will probably total 16 cents per share, with overall revenue forecasted to reach around $7.15 billion.
The plan is to make the meeting video recordings publicly available once the US government gives its okay, with the aim of releasing them by this Friday, according to Jim Landale, a spokesperson for the tribunal.
When there is no regulatory supervision, individuals are able to contribute to political campaigns without restriction, giving affluent candidates like Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth a substantial financial advantage over their opponents.
Meteorologists predicted that the storm would strengthen into a Category 1 hurricane before striking the coast.
NASA's satellite data reveals a persistent and alarming trend of Arctic ice cover reduction, with a 10% decline observed over each decade.
A stopgap measure has been proposed by Microsoft until a more comprehensive solution can be developed.
GE, the parent company of NBC, seems to be less enthusiastic about participating in the bidding process, whereas other contenders like Bronfman and Davis are more actively pursuing the opportunity.
Dr. Julie Gerberding, the CDC's head, is reporting that the information is changing quickly.
The Federal Open Market Committee is convening on Tuesday, with a highly anticipated announcement of its monetary policy decisions set to be published the next day.
The church was deeply saddened by the sudden loss of one of its own members, Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy, who tragically perished in a helicopter accident in Iraq on November 7th, leaving a lasting impression on the community.
The conference committee has not received any opposition to the proposal, with Mr. Peterson stating that it is not being intentionally rejected.
IBM's internal IT teams rigorously evaluate and test newly implemented platforms and technologies to guarantee their stability and performance.
A majority opinion was written by Rehnquist and was joined by Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer, and O'Connor.
In the event of insufficient funding, AustMag's board of directors may be forced to temporarily suspend the project to avoid risking the company's financial stability.
The hacker, referred to as Eleonora67, has delayed the expected deadline to 8am AEST today, citing the emergence of three new security vulnerabilities.
The inquiry into Biggs' demise hit a roadblock for four months before a pivotal revelation emerged, triggered by a casual comment Mallard made at a social event.
The Singaporean diplomatic mission was pinpointed as a potential target, along with other foreign embassies, in Bangkok, a city deemed a hotbed of concern.
The proposed change aims to turn the CIA directorship into a long-term role, moving away from the current practice of appointing a temporary director based on political considerations.
Japanese Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa believes the yen's recent surge in value is unwarranted, but declined to speculate on any government actions that might be taken to stabilize its exchange rate.
The person is undergoing treatment at Kings County Hospital Center, where they were admitted last night and are in a precarious state, but are showing some signs of improvement.
A significant medical conference in Chicago kicked off a groundbreaking research project.
"The experience filled me with a deep sense of pride and admiration, a feeling I had never experienced before, as if our country's worth as a nation was being genuinely acknowledged."
The Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 0.3% to reach 9,886.75, while the Nasdaq Composite index climbed 0.4% to 1,986.97.
A former member of JI, Omar al-Faruq, is being held in a secure US facility, having provided crucial intel on the organization's inner workings.
The bond market saw a sudden increase in demand, causing the 10-year bond's interest rate to drop, decreasing from 4.39% to 4.38% by the end of the trading day.
Ford's quarterly earnings got a substantial lift from Ford Credit, which saw a remarkable 21.5% surge in net profits, resulting in a profit of $401 million.
Roberson suffered a brutal assault, resulting in a bite wound on her back and scratch marks on her leg.
"The crucial difference lies in the presence of a minute component called a tuner."
I selected to focus on sex workers due to my unfavorable sentiments towards the profession and a personal unease with participating in a commercial sexual interaction with them.
Intel Corp.'s dividend yield stands out as the lowest among all companies.
High-ranking officials from Iraq, the United States, and Turkey gathered at Turkey's Ceyhan port on the Mediterranean Sea to commemorate the departure of a notable shipment.
A high-ranking Russian official has hinted that a significant announcement will be made on Thursday, outlining Russia's position on cooperating with Iran's nuclear energy projects.
A high-profile member of the So Solid Crew, a renowned hip-hop collective, quickly jettisoned a firearm containing ammunition in a poorly lit alleyway while making a hasty retreat from law enforcement.
The most recent WPAN standard utilizes the 2.4 GHz unlicensed spectrum, enabling data transmission rates of 11, 22, 33, 44, and 55 megabits per second.
Florida's primary election is set to occur on March 9, following a pattern already seen in 28 other states, where the process has been underway for several weeks.
The specifics of the financial agreement will be revealed soon, but for the time being, they remain undisclosed.
The German financial regulatory body, BaFin, is expressing concerns about WestLB's risk assessment methods.
Taiwan was unexpectedly dealing with the risk of a severe SARS outbreak, despite initial expectations that the crisis would soon subside.
The two firms plan to collaborate on developing memory technologies to support emerging uses.
Several nations, including France, Russia, and China, called on the UN to play a more decisive role in backing Iraq's newly installed leader, with the goal of conferring global recognition and legitimacy on them.
Intel's Chief Financial Officer Andy Bryant announced that the company has not witnessed a quarter with such exceptional expansion in over 25 years.
Gary Nicklaus, the 34-year-old son of golf icon Jack Nicklaus, received a sponsor's exemption and got off to a solid start, notching five birdies on the front nine, before ending his round with a commendable score of 69.
Donald Rumsfeld suggested awarding the annual recognition to every single US military personnel.
The updated Finder provides a centralized hub for exploring and managing different storage options, encompassing files, devices, servers, cloud storage, and removable media, making it easy to navigate with a single click.
About 700 MONUC staff members are stationed in Bunia, yet they lack the power and resources to effectively address the conflict.
The Defense Department's internal auditing agency has been entrusted with scrutinizing the procedures used to issue telecommunications permits.
The US Conference Board's business confidence index has seen a significant surge, jumping to 60, up from its previous reading of 53 in the first quarter.
The authorities took the precautionary measure of sealing off the road to the canyon and evacuating the local residents on Thursday, citing safety concerns as the primary reason.
A group of seven individuals, comprising two siblings from Portland, have agreed to plead guilty to conspiracy charges, which are allegedly connected to their suspected ties with al-Qaida and the Taliban, according to official sources.
"In the absence of reliable information, individuals may miss important alerts about potential risks associated with certain substances and potentially overlook similar warnings for future substances that may arise."
The majority of women, roughly 83%, handled household tasks, whereas around 74% of men also took on similar duties.
A high-level meeting was convened in Beijing, where the heads of China, Russia, and four Central Asian nations converged to devise a unified economic plan for their collaborative defense efforts.
During the second quarter of the fiscal year, Cisco's financial results showed a net profit of $991 million, equivalent to 14 cents per share. The company's total revenue for the quarter was a significant $4.7 billion.
Syndia allegedly severed the ties between TSMC and its client base.
Attracting a sufficient number of individuals with severe depression for a study can be a significant obstacle, which may ultimately compromise the accuracy of the medication's effectiveness.
Around 6,000 MTA staff members, including both drivers and train operators, joined forces with mechanics in a strike.
The audience erupted in a deafening applause, indicating their wholehearted approval of the speaker's words and regarding him as a champion of Democratic principles.
The attackers fired their projectiles from a hidden base, employing a cleverly disguised mobile battery that looked like a regular power pack.
The company has a strict rule that only its official logo caps are allowed to be worn by employees, contrary to Marisa Baldeo's claims.
A juvenile was taken into custody and charged with creating a customized version of the notorious RPCSDBOT malware.
A number of lawsuits are being referred to federal court for further review and adjudication.
The problem with Ms. Stewart stems from her own behavior, rather than any lingering resentment.
A woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital in a life-threatening condition by emergency responders.
The 2.6.0 kernel has achieved some notable improvements, but it is still not mature enough for widespread implementation in professional settings.
The Russell 2000 index, a gauge of small-cap stocks, surged by 2.5% and closed at 497.42, marking a cumulative gain of 11.92 points.
Brian Brabazon shared that his son would often react aggressively to bullying at first, but would ultimately reconcile with his tormentors.
Blagojevich reiterated his stance against utilizing casino expansion as a solution to plug budget deficits.
A highly damaging computer virus, referred to as the Lovsan worm, triggered a worldwide cyber crisis, resulting in a substantial breakdown of global computer networks and infrastructure.
A senior UN official stresses the pressing need for prompt action, as Japan reacts to the global outcry by stating it will freeze its substantial financial aid until Aung San Suu Kyi is freed from detention.
The human clinical trial for the vaccine is not anticipated to begin until 2005, and it may take several years after that for it to gain regulatory approval for widespread use.
The United Auto Workers union has reached temporary agreements with Ford, Chrysler, and Visteon, which will be in effect for the next four years.
Jane Doe's lawyers asked Verizon to keep her identity confidential, as she planned to appeal the court's decision.
A special legislative gathering is underway, with a key piece of legislation expected to pass, aiming to lower the expense of medical malpractice insurance for healthcare providers.
Ryan Harvey, a skilled outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida, was selected as the sixth overall pick by the Chicago Cubs in a highly anticipated draft.
Four people were removed from the house, and their combined weight totaled 136 pounds.
According to IDC analyst John McArthur, the prices have remained relatively consistent, with only minor fluctuations of less than 30% observed over the past two consecutive quarters.
Kelley, a certified educator with a master's degree, has refined her teaching expertise over three decades and currently takes home an annual income of $65,000.
This evening, Morgan, a 21-year-old student, will be among the 1,200-plus students attending Wheaton College's inaugural dance event, a significant moment in the institution's 143-year history, which will take place in the school's gym.
The capsule landed on its side, gradually losing speed over a distance of about 12 meters, its descent slowed down by the parachute's gentle resistance.
According to Italian news agency ANSA, the anarchist group that claimed responsibility for a December 21 bombing near the individual's home may also be behind the recent attack.
Five movies are expected to achieve an impressive box office haul, with each film projected to gross over $20 million in a single weekend.
A high-ranking official at Rite Aid has agreed to cooperate with government agencies within the next two weeks.
The police believe that the victim's death may have been the result of strangulation, and it's possible that she was a victim of sexual assault prior to her death.
The prediction includes a margin of error of 4.9%, encompassing both upward and downward variations.
The value of MONY shares skyrocketed by 9% to $31.90 in after-hours Instinet trading, experiencing a significant $2.57 increase.
The Labor Department's business survey payroll statistics provide a more accurate economic snapshot due to its extensive sampling base.
Pundits are now more convinced that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates at their June 24-25 meeting due to the recent advancements.
Kraft's current project has the potential to establish a groundbreaking benchmark for the entire industry, according to Mark McClellan, the FDA's director.
The establishment of the state will only take place after a temporary government sets up a system for creating a constitution and arranges the country's first democratic election.
A small breach in the spacecraft's wing allowed scorching air to leak into the thermal shield as it entered the planet's atmosphere, sealing the fate of the doomed ship.
The external hard drive market experienced a 1.5% increase in revenue compared to the same period last year, resulting in a total of $3.2 billion in sales.
Jimmy Hoffa, 62, vanished without a trace on July 30, 1975, from a parking lot in Bloomfield Township, near Detroit, leaving behind a multitude of unanswered questions.
Tomorrow night, a crowd of around 1,200 students, including 21-year-old Morgan, will gather at Wheaton College's gymnasium to mark a significant milestone in the institution's 143-year history, as it hosts its first-ever dance event.
JoAnn Marquis, a traveler from Salem, Massachusetts, and her husband publicly expressed their strong disapproval and disappointment following the event.
Paul Durousseau, a 30-year-old man, is currently facing five murder charges in Jacksonville, with incidents occurring between December and February, and is also being investigated for a possible connection to a 1997 murder case in Georgia.
Stack became a part of Triumph in 1999, coinciding with the commencement of a grand jury investigation into Silvester's activities.
Their similarity is hauntingly familiar, evoking the timeless mystique of Hamlet's skull.
The archdiocese's spokesperson, Rev. Christopher Coyne, did not respond to a request for comment.
A team of agricultural specialists from the US Department of Agriculture, headed by Secretary Ann Veneman, is scheduled to visit Canada to offer support.
About 130,000 US military personnel are currently stationed in Iraq, with further deployments taking place in Afghanistan, South Korea, and other international locations.
A study at five urban healthcare facilities found that almost 40% of patients questioned thought that cancer can be transmitted through airborne exposure during surgical procedures.
The institute fundamentally disagrees with the department's assessment of the proposed plan, contending that it dramatically distorts the significant and far-reaching implications that would arise from its execution.
In a sudden and unexpected move, insurgents launched a military assault in a Russian territory, which was subsequently accompanied by a series of devastating bombings aimed at residential areas, leading to a surge in violence in the late 1990s.
For Mr. O'Keefe, this moment represents a major turning point in the development of our organization.
Approximately two-thirds of the workforce, comprising 667 individuals, perished in the attack.
The SARS virus had spread worldwide, resulting in approximately 770 deaths and infecting over 8,300 people, with its first reported cases emerging in southern China in November.
A six-year-old child was brutally attacked by a teenager, leaving the youngster with severe injuries that could have been life-threatening, with no apparent reason for the teenager's violent behavior.
People who frequently experience positive emotions tend to enjoy better sleep quality, make healthier dietary choices, prioritize exercise, and have lower stress hormone levels, as per Cohen's research.
The legal process usually begins once a proposed law is officially passed and becomes a formal law.
Researchers are meticulously exploring the root causes of the recent spike in cases, seeking to pinpoint the primary factors responsible for this trend.
Jacob has been a long-standing proponent of consolidation, recognizing that many rural communities have consistently expressed strong opposition to the concept, particularly in certain regions.
The grief-stricken elderly woman collapsed onto the ground, her face hidden in the dirt as she wailed, "My dear child, my heart is irreparably broken!"
The company's market value has skyrocketed as a result of a mix of circumstances, with the financial difficulties faced by WorldCom playing a significant role, as well as rumors that AT&T could be a prime takeover target.
The three priests closely followed the predetermined rules and regulations, thereby confirming their authority and credibility.
Missouri's Governor, Bob Holden, has made a pressing appeal to the White House to officially declare a state of emergency in 39 counties.
Biotech shares skyrocketed after ImClone Systems and Genentech announced remarkable results from their cancer drug trials, suggesting a high likelihood of successful treatment options for cancer patients.
A surge in cases in Colorado has led to a widespread outbreak, affecting over 6,300 individuals and resulting in at least six deaths.
Three prominent schools, Miami, Boston College, and Syracuse, are planning to leave the Big East Conference and join the Atlantic Coast Conference instead.
In 2002, a significant 63% of people with home broadband internet used cable modems, while around 34% preferred DSL connections.
In the span of a year, the adoption of high-speed cable modem technology experienced a significant increase of nearly 50%.
The player reached base safely and eventually scored after Franklin's ground ball in the top of the fifth inning.
In the third quarter, revenue plummeted to $36.9 billion, a significant drop from the $39.3 billion previously reported, primarily driven by a substantial decline in vehicle sales.
Sean Harrigan of Calpers is aiming to optimize the potential of investment opportunities currently available.
The planet in question has an unusually long orbital period of 165 years around the sun, resulting in a spring season that can last an astonishing 40 years or more.
Two prominent figures have contrasting opinions on ethanol, a culturally significant substance in Iowa, and also disagree on whether to allow oil and gas exploration within Alaska's wildlife refuge.
The passenger count on the ferry remains unclear because ferry companies rarely keep accurate records of each individual traveler.
The medical professionals viewed the situation as a potential issue, yet they maintained that it was manageable.
The US and Singapore have a substantial trade partnership, with their annual commerce valued at over $34 billion, ranking Singapore as the 12th biggest trade partner of the United States.
Despite a disappointing retail sales report in September, the US dollar surprisingly strengthened against the euro, yen, and Swiss franc, bucking predictions that it would decline.
"The result would have turned out differently if the recommended rules had been adhered to without exception."
The Inland Empire has a rich history of Labor Day racing events, a tradition that has been a mainstay in the area for many years.
The 3.625% bond's yield dropped by 2 percentage points, now standing at 3.66%, since its initial launch in February 2013.
Police authorities paid a visit to Cheetah's and Jaguars, two prominent nightspots, as well as a business situated above a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas.
According to Dell'Oro Group's forecast, the market is expected to attain a value of $12 billion by 2004.
Eugene O'Neill's play "Long Day's Journey Into Night" saw a remarkable revival, earning a total of seven Tony Award nominations and achieving notable commercial success.
Frank McCloskey, a 64-year-old ex-congressman, passed away at his residence after a prolonged battle with bladder cancer.
The initial plan was to spend 18 months in Toronto as a brief pit stop during a larger North American adventure.
The Nasdaq, which is heavily reliant on tech stocks, has seen a substantial increase since March 11, with its benchmark indices recovering by almost 20% from their October low, when they reached a multi-month nadir.
A group of around 120 people has been selected to participate in a comprehensive online questionnaire.
The integrity of American military operations is being threatened by the unauthorized diversion of essential equipment and supplies.
The Concorde's supersonic flight generated a sonic boom, which was the catalyst for the subsequent incident.
A verdict is anticipated to be announced by a three-judge panel in mid-February at a forthcoming court hearing.
Companies in the retail sector are driving change by embracing creative approaches and utilizing expert insights to develop tailored solutions that cater to their individual requirements and collaborations.
Leading tech giants such as Intel, Sony, Microsoft, HP, IBM, Gateway, and Nokia are all heavily invested in this initiative.
The Ex-Im board members showed remarkable courage and eco-friendly commitment despite encountering fierce resistance, earning praise from Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth after their decision.
The prolonged crisis in the oil-rich region has led to devastating outcomes, resulting in the tragic loss of over 10,000 lives, with the vast majority being non-combatants.
Thomas received backing from Chief Justice Rehnquist and partial endorsement from Justices O'Connor and Scalia.
Intel's servers were unaffected by the email breach, and the recipients of the emails were able to request that Hamidi stop sending them further messages, which he subsequently did.
A 14-year-old boy from Belmont, North Carolina, named Tom Kasmer stumbled upon the mysterious term "zistee" while competing in a recent event.
The Secretary of Energy, Spencer Abraham, believes that the recent power outage was preventable.
After the 9/11 attacks, a meticulous examination of al-Bayoumi's activities was conducted, with investigators dedicating significant resources and hours to the inquiry.
The euro soared to an all-time high of 135.13 yen shortly after its launch in January 1999.
Concerns are emerging in Boston that outlawing smoking could create safety concerns, particularly in areas around bars and nightclubs where crowds of smokers might congregate outside.
The Canadian environment commissioner alleges that the federal government is hastily greenlighting new pesticides without first thoroughly examining their potential effects on children's health and wellbeing.
"It's futile to engage in a heated argument over a Supreme Court nominee's qualifications."
Over a period of nine years, from 1993 to 2002, a total of 142 instances of sexual assault were recorded.
New statistics reveal that the manufacturing industry suffered a notable 0.6% contraction in August.
The inquiry often resulted in a lack of accountability for those who had violated the regulations.
A group of individuals who had escaped a raid on Saturday were left stranded on the outskirts of Mecca after their vehicle suffered a breakdown and ceased to function.
Chandler's team has not discovered conclusive evidence to confirm the suspected link, but they have not ruled out the possibility entirely.
There are whispers that President Bush of the United States might be planning a journey to the Middle East in the coming weeks.
The research investigated a range of activities, encompassing both lawful forms of expression, such as peaceful demonstrations, and illegal tactics, including the fabrication and misuse of fake documents to breach secure zones.
The SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used separately or in combination with the ControlCenter suite, which provides a complete set of storage management tools.
The area is characterized by a vibrant green meadow and a compact asphalt section, where a cash machine is situated, and it's renowned for being the testing site where Orville Wright refined his pioneering inventions, including a biplane prototype, experimented with automobiles, and developed playthings.
The team established a adaptable list of priorities, allocating a significant portion of their resources to address a projected 5% decrease in compensation for healthcare professionals.
A massive 10 million shares were sold, and the proceeds were directed to a secret charity, which then sold off its assets.
Microsoft has released a vital update to fix a critical vulnerability in its recently launched Office 2003 suite.
A crucial court proceeding got underway in Fulton County Superior Court on Thursday, marking the start of a legal journey that will ultimately decide Matthew Whitley's fate.
The president highlighted the recent power outage as a stark warning for the US to urgently revamp its outdated electrical grid.
A significant number of cell phone users likely harbor a desire to possess a high-end smartphone, as suggested by Huang.
Kerry Kennedy and Andrew Cuomo have enjoyed a strong and enduring connection for over 15 years, with their bond remaining unbroken despite the passage of time.
In 1999, Mauritania generated significant international attention by formally recognizing and establishing diplomatic relations with Israel, making it the third Arab League country to do so at the time.
Germany is demonstrating substantial progress, exemplified by the success of Agenda 2010 and tax reforms, which demonstrate the government's dedication to implementing lasting changes.
Despite being 94 years old, Lacy's passion for baseball remained unwavering, with his commitment to the sport still going strong.
The yield on the 30-year US Treasury bond decreased by 1 percentage point, now standing at 4.47%, after previously ending the long-term market at 4.41%.
"I categorically reject the unfounded accusation that I embezzled funds from Jennifer Lopez, deeming it both inaccurate and deeply offensive."
Khodorkovsky's sudden departure was halted by individuals claiming to be from Russia's domestic security agency, the modern-day equivalent of the former Soviet Union's notorious KGB.
The standoff between the two nations was eventually resolved after a prolonged period of stalemate, which had been fueled by months of escalating tensions arising from fundamental disagreements over North Korea's nuclear program and the US's demands for it to be halted.
Berry has gone through two marriages, neither of which was successful, with his most recent split happening in 1991.
Since Perkins' arrival at UConn in 1990, following his departure from Maryland, the university has experienced a remarkable run of success, claiming six national championships across three sports, including basketball and soccer, both men's and women's.
AOL and CompuServe have been criticized for allegedly breaching their commitment to refund subscribers as promised, sparking concerns over their business practices.
A group of ten police officers took a break from their regular patrol route to attend a David Blaine magic show, finding themselves in an unexpected and unconventional scenario.
A serious respiratory emergency is escalating in Taiwan, leading authorities to quarantine hundreds of individuals in two major hospitals, raising concerns that the situation could rapidly spread and become a full-blown outbreak.
The Catholic population in Banja Luka is relatively modest, numbering around 2,000 individuals.
Medical staff are setting up temporary healthcare centers in parking lot tents to redirect patients with infectious diseases away from emergency rooms.
In Mexico, the concept of bounty hunting is viewed as a form of kidnapping, which has serious legal and moral consequences.
Imam Samudra, the Indonesian militant leader, has been handed the death penalty for masterminding a series of brutal assaults.
The top 12 films collectively generated a remarkable $157.1 million in box office revenue over the weekend, marking a substantial 52% surge compared to the same time frame in the previous year.
Initially, the engineers misjudged the extent of the damage and were also unhappy with the subpar quality of the launch video.
According to Professor Frank Partnoy, Merrill Lynch's response to the situation highlights a lack of effective oversight and accountability among the company's senior leaders.
The S3C2440 CPU is capable of running a variety of operating systems, including Windows CE and Pocket PC, Palm OS, Symbian, and Linux.
He warned his grown children about the dangers of accumulating too much credit card debt.
Engaging in physical activities other than dancing does not appear to have a substantial impact on reducing the risk.
Research has demonstrated that elderly individuals who made fish a regular part of their diet saw a substantial 60% decrease in their likelihood of developing Alzheimer's disease compared to those who consumed fish infrequently.
As the number of overnight campers waiting for early access to sales decreased, mall owners and store proprietors noticed a significant increase in foot traffic during the late afternoon.
After Hamas claimed responsibility for the devastating bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday, which claimed the lives of 20 people, the US President swiftly responded with decisive action.
A prolonged standoff between a single person and law enforcement in Washington D.C. and surrounding areas of northern Virginia caused a prolonged traffic jam, leading to severe congestion.
If the company does not submit its reports by the end of May, it risks being removed from the stock exchange, as warned by a regulatory body.
A small aperture would permit the passage of gas, which would be heated to an intense temperature, roughly three times that of a blowtorch's extremely hot flame.
Altria, a leading tobacco corporation based in New York, experienced a notable market boost, resulting in a 10% rise to $38.28 per share.
OneNote, a note-taking software, is available for purchase at a price of £169.99, whereas InfoPath, a tool designed for collecting XML data, has a price tag of £179.99.
A massive cyberattack is expected to strike on Sunday, posing a significant threat to the stability of the internet, with the potential to cause widespread disruptions to online activities and network slowdowns.
Joan B. Kroc, the widow of Ray Kroc and a billionaire, sadly succumbed to brain cancer after a courageous battle, her life being cut short in a premature manner.
BOCHK's CEO, Liu Jinbao, has unexpectedly chosen to move to Beijing, where he will assume a new role.
According to reports, Mr. Hussein's daughters concentrated on attacking British educational and healthcare facilities in their pursuit of asylum.
A European Union agriculture representative in Washington, Gerry Kiely, disclosed that EU ministers had received an invitation to attend an event, but they chose not to participate due to the ongoing negotiations over EU agricultural reform.
The illegal diversion of prescription medications has created a profitable black market, allowing those involved to live a life of extravagance, characterized by lavish homes worth millions of dollars.
The Space Infrared Telescope Facility, constructed by Lockheed Martin, represents the culmination of NASA's ambitious Hubble-class "Great Observatories" project.
"A Miami-based attorney underscored the significance of safeguarding individuals we may not have a personal bond with or even dislike, highlighting the imperative to uphold this principle, including in instances involving enemy combatants."
Most of the $51 billion was allocated to send American troops to Iraq, with an additional $10 billion earmarked for U.S. forces stationed in Afghanistan.
We probably made a mistake on this test, and it's crucial that we identify and fix these errors as soon as possible.
Ruffner, a 45-year-old individual, is currently without legal representation in the murder case, as per official documents.
"We'll need to check the schedules of the group to determine if it's practical for all four of us to attend as a group."
South Korea stands out for its remarkable broadband penetration, with an astonishing 21 subscribers per 100 citizens, showcasing the country's advanced digital infrastructure.
The board chairman, Robert Bennett, remained silent on the issue of employee concerns, and Mills, another key figure, refused to comment on the topic.
The company's previous year's earnings totaled $446 million, amounting to a per-share value of 7 cents, with revenue of $6.3 billion playing a significant role in this outcome.
"We will vigorously protect the privacy of individuals who choose not to receive home contact and will take all necessary measures to prevent unwanted interruptions."
According to Thomson First Call's predictions, the expected earnings per share are anticipated to range from 16 cents to 27 cents.
Mr. Brendsel is expected to remain in his current role at the Freddie Mac Foundation.
The SARS outbreak has caused significant economic repercussions in Taiwan, echoing the widespread economic fallout in the region, leading to a drastic decrease in consumer spending and a substantial drop in commercial activity among retailers, restaurants, and airports.
The quarterly financial reports do not yet account for the impact of our partnership with Compaq, as the relevant data is still being incorporated.
Oracle's stock value has risen, currently standing at $13.60 per share.
John C. McCarthy, head of Forrester Group, notes that some companies tout impressive BPO cost savings, but many service providers overstate the abilities of their current services.
The prime minister's brief postponement of the trial has created a challenging situation for his fellow defendants, exposing them to potential consequences.
European governments are accused of hindering the growth of innovative bio-crops by allowing unfounded and evidence-free worries to shape their decision-making procedures.
The head of the US Federal Reserve, a crucial organization, holds the power to set interest rates that significantly impact the US economy.
A leading energy expert at the London-based Center for Global Energy Studies, Manouchehr Takin, clarified that the entities in question were not seized by the organization.
Amrozi alleged that his brother, also known as "the witness", gave false information in his testimony, deliberately distorting the truth.
The initial expectation of a boost in British exports' growth has given way to a more pessimistic forecast, with the outlook now looking less optimistic.
Sony's subscription service provides a personalized experience, giving users a wide range of digital content to choose from, including images, audio files, music videos, and more, all curated to fit their unique tastes.
Renowned actors James Brolin and Judy Davis, boasting a plethora of accolades, bring to life the legendary pair Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the movie The Reagans.
According to recent reports, American Airlines has dismissed around 6,500 staff members in Missouri since the beginning of the year.
"The ECB's communication problems are a symptom of a deeper-seated issue."
It's essential to broaden our viewpoints and take into account a variety of opinions in order to stimulate advancement.
Women who received hormone therapy following chemotherapy saw a significant increase in their likelihood of long-term survival.
The merged company will keep the Interwoven brand and set up its headquarters in Sunnyvale.
A top executive from G + J is currently giving testimony in a Manhattan State Supreme Court trial, where O'Donnell is defending against allegations of contract non-compliance.
The US Capitol Police Chief, Terrance Gainer, linked the event to two staff members who donned Halloween attire.
A major corporation has purchased the paper production arm of Buhrmann, a prominent European paper provider that is a subsidiary of a major Dutch office supply giant.
Gelinas has conducted a thorough examination of a limited number of six cases.
The prevalence of a single, widely-used operating system, which is susceptible to the same vulnerabilities, has contributed significantly to the deterioration of security, according to Geer's findings.
A New York court has granted a temporary restraining order to prohibit Viacom from utilizing the brand name "Spike TV".
Approximately 2.3 million of the approximately 7 million annual immigration benefit requests are comprised of two specific types, as reported by immigration authorities.
The auditors neglected to thoroughly review the personnel records of the clergy during their inquiry.
The S&P 500 index surged by nearly 1%, closing at 929.06, with a cumulative rise of 8.79 points.
Italian authorities conducted a search of Tanzi's home in the Parma area, but he was nowhere to be found, having apparently escaped to a secret location in a foreign country.
To gain a competitive edge, it's essential to leverage your unique skills and consistently produce outstanding results.
A worldwide warrant for his apprehension was issued, with identical duplicates dispatched to Ghana's authorities and Interpol.
He has openly admitted to living a life of hedonism, characterized by a consistent pattern of marijuana use, numerous romantic relationships, and a carefree attitude towards personal well-being.
Amrozi refused to reveal the identity of his company or his direct supervisor.
According to the World Wildlife Fund, roughly 13,000 animals are believed to be caught in the Straits of Gibraltar and nearby areas each year.
The outlook for future revenue growth is ambiguous, making it difficult to predict whether the current pace will be sustained or is just a temporary phenomenon.
Mallard is currently standing trial, charged with murder and obstruction of justice, nearly two years after the devastating event occurred.
Newly disclosed conversations with NASA engineers have exposed a stark contrast between the technical prowess of the agency's engineers and the decision-making power held by its leaders.
AES Corp, the parent company of Drax, has pulled out of the plant's restructuring efforts after its proposal was rejected by the banks and bondholders.
The pharmaceutical industry is under close examination as governments accelerate their vaccination efforts, amid growing fears about the potential biological risks to both civilian and military communities reaching a breaking point.
Intel has unveiled a specially designed processor tailored for deployment in portable electronics, smart devices, and wireless peripherals.
With election day looming, election officials are becoming increasingly anxious about the dwindling time available to ensure a smooth and well-organized voting process.
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and the manufacturers of the affected storage devices to resolve an issue caused by a defect in the Oxford 922 chipset.
Wells told the authorities that he was forced to rob the bank and begged them to help him defuse the bomb before it exploded.
Mr. Warner was told by Harold and his team that a devastating loss had occurred, with six individuals sadly losing their lives.
The footage clearly depicts the ball hitting the ground prior to making contact with Sangakkara's foot.
A makeshift Iraqi government, consisting of a small group of people, is being formed, with the US-appointed administrator taking on a temporary leadership role.
Nina Axelrod, the daughter of the late individual, disclosed to the Associated Press that her father's death was a peaceful one, brought on by a sudden heart attack that occurred while he was sleeping.
The stock market has recently seen a substantial upswing, fueled by growing confidence that the economy will rebound by the end of 2023.
The North American futures market is expected to have a sluggish opening on Tuesday as investors gear up to carefully examine quarterly earnings reports for the first time.
In 1996, a research project was launched at Stony Brook University in response to initial discoveries indicating a possible correlation between electromagnetic radiation and cancer.
Joanie Harper gained full custody of her kids, Marques and Lyndsey, following the couple's divorce in September 2001, as per court records.
David Beckham will receive a guaranteed annual salary of $10 million, with his total compensation potentially increasing to $220,000 per match due to bonus incentives.
"A groundbreaking program is being launched to tackle the widespread problem of sexual harassment and assault, aiming to completely eliminate it."
Nelson's punishment has been significantly reduced, from a life sentence to a maximum of ten years behind bars.
Sir Alex Ferguson had a profound impact on my football career, and I'm deeply thankful for the substantial influence he had on my personal development.
The President and his brother's failure to attend the Florida conference was met with disappointment by Bond, mirroring their absence at the Texas event the year prior.
The proposed agreement does not require individuals to pay more or reduce their income, nor does it increase their medical expenses.
Terrorism has been a persistent menace in East Africa, leading to a string of violent attacks across the region.
The governments in question have reaffirmed their steadfast resolve, remaining unyielding in their original position despite mounting public dissatisfaction.
A 39-year-old man initially gave a fake name to the authorities, but later revealed his true identity.
The anticipated event is predicted to unfold between October 10th and 17th, introducing two new male characters to the scene.
Restaurants that frequently change their menus may face challenges.
The governor has called an urgent gathering of the state legislature to speed up the process of approving a revised redistricting proposal.
"He shared at the hospital press conference that the two individuals are currently in top physical condition."
Mr. Klein plans to inform Mr. Cheney about Canada's standing as a reliable provider of energy resources.
I rang the phone number and was greeted by a woman's voice, who was in the middle of talking to Toby Studabaker, as Sherry Studabaker had mentioned in a BBC TV interview.
A probe is underway, led by the Air Force's internal auditing division and the Defense Department.
The proposed plan is anticipated to significantly alter congressional representation, resulting in a net increase of 12 Republican seats and 5 Democratic seats, ultimately leading to a new distribution of 22 Republicans and 17 Democrats.
It was publicly disclosed on Monday that Minister Saud al-Faisal had embarked on a trip, according to statements made by two government officials.
A high-ranking official in Rowland's administration has admitted to receiving lavish presents, including gold and cash, which allegedly were used to sway decisions on state contracts, with the corruption investigation dating back to March.
Tennessee's Republican Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, is urging Congress to wrap up its remaining legislative responsibilities before the September deadline.
The Myanmar government is working towards building a democratic system with multiple political parties and fostering a unified sense of national belonging.
In a passionate speech in New Orleans, she electrified the audience by announcing that Louisiana's new era has finally taken center stage on the national stage.
Jimmy Hoffa, 62, vanished without a trace on July 30, 1975, after departing a parking lot in Oakland County, roughly 25 miles north of Detroit, leaving behind a trail of unanswered questions.
Since China is not under a time constraint, there is no urgency to expedite the process.
Argentina has a $6.8 billion debt refinancing deal with the International Monetary Fund, established six months ago, which is scheduled to conclude in August.
Toronto has now gone a full day without a new COVID-19 case, with the latest reported case dating back to April 19.
By acquiring Ximian from Novell, we can leverage their expertise to enhance our customer relationships and streamline our utilization of open-source initiatives.
In just a week, X2 amassed a staggering $17.1 million, taking its overall earnings to a significant $174 million within a remarkably short period of three weeks.
She made multiple pleas, but was ultimately refused permission to attend her father's funeral on the island, a denial that endured for a long period of time.
