While it was being called mandatory , Dupont said authorities were not forcing people from their homes .
It was called mandatory , but Dupont said authorities did not force people to leave .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , did not answer his phone Wednesday afternoon .
Michael Mitchell , the chief public defender in Baton Rouge who is representing Lee , was not available for comment .
It is important for a process to be put into place , he said , that would permit a smooth transition from war to peace .
He added : " Let the process be put in place that will ensure a smooth transition from war to peace .
Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio is expected to raise more than $ 1 million .
Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich passed $ 1 million last week and was still counting money .
The broader Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX gained 3 points , or 0.39 percent , at 924 .
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index < .IXIC > rose 6 points , or 0.41 percent , to 1,498 .
That exploit works on unpatched Windows 2000 machines with Service Pack 3 and 4 .
Both Counterpane and iDefense contend that the exploit works effectively against Windows 2000 systems running Service Pack 3 and 4 .
She was arraigned in New York state on three counts of murder and ordered held without bail .
She was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder and ordered held without bail in Sullivan County Jail .
At least 29 American troops have been killed in action since Bush declared major combat over on May 1 .
Some three dozen American and British troops have been killed since Bush declared major combat over in Iraq on May 1 .
" By its actions , the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war , " the Connecticut Democrat told a Capitol Hill news conference .
" By its actions , " Lieberman said , " the Bush administration threatens to give a bad name to a just war . "
The updated 64-bit operating system , Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems , will run natively on AMD Athlon 64 processor-powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
Windows XP 64-bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems will support AMD64 technology , running natively on AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops and AMD Opteron processor-powered workstations .
GBI spokesman John Bankhead said the murder scenes showed that the killer was very methodical .
Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead said the crime scenes indicated that the killer was " very methodical . "
Later in the day , however , a former Intel executive turned the tables in a speech where he blasted wireless as being too complicated and too difficult to install .
And Thursday , a former Intel exec blasted wireless as too insecure , too complicated , and too difficult to install .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said Dr. Melinda Rowe , Chatham County 's health director .
Georgia cannot afford to not get funding , " said county health director Dr. Melinda Rowe .
They passed through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership in 2001 to Syndia .
It said the patents were " allegedly " assigned to Syndia in 2001 through the Lemelson Medical , Educational and Research Foundation Limited Partnership .
Her knees were swollen for days and she still bears scars there and on her legs and ankles .
Grieson said both of her knees were swollen for days and that she still has scars on her legs from the incident .
A really robust program could be had for about 20 cents a day , " Griffin said .
" A really robust space program could be had for a mere 20 cents a day from each person , " he said .
In the evening , he asked for six pizzas and soda , which police delivered .
In the evening , he asked for six pepperoni pizzas and two six-packs of soft drinks , which officers delivered .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks - which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail - to send cash to their families overseas .
Muslim immigrants have used the networks _ which rely on wire transfers , couriers and overnight mail _ to send stashes of cash overseas to their families .
The compensation committee will prohibit securities industry directors from sitting on it .
The exchange also said its five-person compensation committee will consist only of directors from outside the securities industry .
Justice John Paul Stevens compared the interrogation of Martinez to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Writing for the minority , Justice John Paul Stevens said the interrogation was akin to " an attempt to obtain an involuntary confession from a prisoner by torturous methods . "
Without the fleet , NASA has relied on the Russian space program to rotate crew members for the International Space Station and to send supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
Without the shuttle fleet , NASA is relying on the Russian space program to rotate crew members on the International Space Station and send new supplies to the orbiting laboratory .
The previous weekend record for an R-rated film was $ 58 million for " Hannibal . "
The previous biggest R rated opening was " Hannibal 's " $ 58 million .
The department also sent water and soil samples to the state health laboratory .
Water samples are being sent to the state health department for analysis .
For the full 12-month period ending June 30 , advanced services lines of all technology types increased by 56 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
In the 1990 's , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs ate away at the shuttle program 's safety margins .
In the 1990s , the board found , budget cuts and trade-offs etched away at the shuttle program 's thin margins of safety .
Downer originally said the 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived in a boat off Melville Island last week .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer yesterday claimed the group of 14 Kurds had not asked to be considered as refugees when they arrived off Melville Island last week .
" The result is an overall package that will provide significant economic growth for our employees over the next four years . "
" The result is an overall package that will provide a significant economic growth for our employees over the next few years , " he said .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " said Troy , who spoke quickly but in a steady voice .
" I love the Catholic Church with all my heart , mind , soul and strength , " he said .
They looked at their son-in-law and his relatives , but did not exchange words .
She looked at her son-in-law and his relatives at times , but the two sides did not exchange words .
Santa Clara-based Intel had sought the injunction , arguing that Hamidi was trespassing on its computer servers just as though he were intruding on private property .
A lower court had considered Hamidi to be trespassing on the Santa Clara-based chipmaker 's servers , just as if somebody were squatting on a piece of physical private property .
Kerry last month outlined a U.N. resolution authorizing a military force under U.S. command and transferring responsibility to the United Nations for the political and humanitarian efforts .
Kerry outlined last month a UN resolution authorizing a military force under US command and transferring responsibility for political and humanitarian efforts to the UN .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia -- we 're back in Europe , " Prime Minister Juhan Parts told a news conference on Sunday .
" Spring has arrived in Estonia - we 're back in Europe , " Juhan Parts , prime minister , told a news conference last night .
She met Lady Mary at her Double Bay home yesterday to thank her for the donation .
She met Lady Mary for the first time at her Double Bay home in Sydney yesterday to thank her in person for the donation .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media giant Vivendi Universal has given itself two weeks to sift through offers for its U.S. entertainment empire in a multi-billion dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
His other films include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam " and " Jungle Fever . "
His movies include " Malcolm X , " " Summer of Sam , " " Jungle Fever " and " Do the Right Thing . "
SSE CEO Marchant said he would sell on Midlands ' power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow British utility International Power Plc IPR.L for 21 million pounds .
After the deal SSE will sell on Midlands 's power generation assets in Turkey and Pakistan to fellow UK utility International Power Plc for 21 million pounds .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge soon , the officials said .
On Monday , Christian Ganczarski was apprehended at the airport and was to appear before an anti-terrorism judge in the coming days , the officials said on condition of anonymity .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said it appeared to have veered from its flight path because of the fog .
Volodymyr Gorbanovsky , deputy general director of the plane 's owners , Mediterranean Airlines , said initial information indicated it had veered from its flight path because of fog .
The jury verdict , reached Wednesday after less than four hours of deliberation , followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which Waagner represented himself .
The quick conviction followed a 2 1 / 2 week trial , during which the Venango County man represented himself .
Not only had Bashir given his blessing but he had asked " that we hit the target well " , Mr Bafana said .
Not only giving his blessing but he asked that we hit the target well . "
Seven of the nine Democratic presidential candidates were also scheduled to address the forum .
Seven of nine Democratic candidates for president also said they would participate in the conference Monday .
Burns believed that confessing a crime he did not commit was the only way out , Richardson said .
To the frightened Burns , Richardson said , confessing a crime he did not commit looked like the only out .
The seven other nations in the initiative are Britain , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Spain .
Other nations involved in the PSI include Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal , Spain and Britain .
Dan Powers , vice president of grid computing strategy at IBM Corp. , says he 's not worried about such off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening sales of traditional supercomputers .
Dan Powers , IBM vice president of grid-computing strategy , says he 's not worried about off-the-shelf PC clusters threatening traditional supercomputer sales .
It also faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to the company 's business , he added .
" It is highly conditional , faces significant regulatory delays and uncertainty , and threatens serious damage to our business . "
The answer , the group said , would be to " create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats . "
The DHWG says it will instead create a format that can be used by all devices but can accommodate other formats .
Mr. Gettelfinger said at that news conference that " we are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " with Ford and G.M.
" We are going to continue to hammer away at the negotiations process until we reach an agreement , " he said .
Mr Goh on his part , described the visit as especially important - given the SARS situation .
Mr Goh said that it was ' especially important given the Sars situation in Singapore ' .
Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people , ' ' he told the Associated Press .
" Then they moved inside the mosque and started firing on the people . "
My judgment is 95 percent of that information could be declassified , become uncensored so the American people would know , " Mr. Shelby said on NBC 's " Meet the Press . "
" My judgement is 95 percent of that information should be declassified , become uncensored , so the American people would know . "
Selling it symbolically writes a finish to that chapter in the administration of our city schools . "
" Selling it symbolically writes ' Finish ' to that chapter in the administration of our city 's schools , " he said .
Parson has been charged on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer .
Parson faces one federal count of intentionally causing damage to a protected computer .
Both Blair and Bush have faced accusations that they manipulated intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for military action .
At home , the premier has faced accusations that he overplayed intelligence about weapons of mass destruction to make the case for war .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute reanalyzed data from more than 2,000 infants who had been treated with radiation for a benign birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
Researchers at Sweden 's Karolinska Institute recently went over data from more than 2,000 children treated with radiation for a harmless birthmark condition between 1930 and 1959 .
As part of the changes , Microsoft will also tie stock awards for its top 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Microsoft also said it will tie stock awards for 600 or so executives to the growth and " satisfaction " in its customer base .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida Friday , bringing powerful storms which further tested already-swollen lakes and rivers .
Slow-moving , drenching Tropical Storm Henri doused an already soaked Florida on Friday , pushing heavy rains into areas where lakes and rivers were full to overflowing .
They were not supplied or given to us but unearthed by our reporter , David Blair , in the Foreign Ministry in Baghdad . "
They were not supplied or given to us , but unearthed by our reporter " in Iraq 's foreign ministry , he said .
" We don 't know at this point if the current investigation includes one or more outside contractors .
" We do not know if the current investigation involves one or more multiple contractors , " she said .
A gunman who had ``a beef with the Postal Service ' ' stormed into a suburban post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , authorities said .
A gunman stormed into the Lakeside post office and took two employees hostage Wednesday , San Diego County authorities said .
Holders of paper bonds will be able , though not required , to convert to electronic accounts .
Beginning sometime next year , holders of existing paper bonds will be encouraged to exchange them for electronic versions .
Paul Themba Nyathi , an MDC spokesman , said the Avenues Clinic was being targeted because it was treating opposition supporters .
MDC spokesperson Paul Themba Nyathi said the Avenues Clinic was targeted because it was handling opposition supporters .
The matriarch - who celebrates her 81st birthday next month - was yesterday thanked for her generosity by model and actor Sarah O 'Hare , the National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
The matriarch , who celebrates her 81st birthday next month , was thanked personally yesterday for her generosity by actress Sarah O 'Hare , National Breast Cancer Foundation patron .
In Somalia , only 26 % of adolescent females ( aged 10-19 ) have heard of Aids and just 1 % know how to protect themselves .
In Somalia , the report says , only 26 percent of adolescent girls have heard of AIDS and only 1 percent know how to protect themselves .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these superannuation payments irrespective of ... ( how ) he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
" Mr Gilbertson would have been entitled to these ( pension ) payments irrespective of the circumstances in which he left the company , " Mr Argus said .
The latest attack came just two days after three suicide bombers drove a truck loaded with explosives into a government office complex in northern Chechnya , killing 59 people .
The attacks came two days after suicide bombers detonated a truck bomb in a Government compound in northern Chechnya , killing 59 .
MAX Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured today in Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities in the United States said .
Max Factor cosmetics heir and fugitive rapist Andrew Luster was captured Wednesday in a nightclub at the beach resort of Puerto Vallarta , Mexico , authorities said .
Massachusetts does not have a state death penalty , and only once before - in Michigan - has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
Massachusetts has no state death penalty , and only once before -- in Michigan -- has the federal death penalty been given in a state without capital punishment .
In a statement later , he said it appeared his side had fallen a bit short .
Zilkha conceded in a statement issued Tuesday that his group may have fallen " a bit short . "
His decision means that the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges against him , will be tried in September .
That means the case against Gary Lee Sampson , including the capital charges , will now to trial in September .
The number of probable cases dropped to 64 on Tuesday from 66 on Monday in and around Toronto , a city of four million people .
As of Monday , there were 66 probable cases in and around Toronto , a city of 4 million people .
Palm expects to move Handspring 's employees to Palm Solutions headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Handspring employees are expected to move to Palm Solutions Group headquarters in Milpitas , Calif .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the case of a nine-year-old girl who turned up safe two days after being violently abducted from her home .
Police arrested a " potential suspect " Monday in the abduction of a 9-year-old who was found safe after two days , the police chief said .
As temperatures soar above 50 degrees ( 120 Fahrenheit ) , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt in Basra .
As temperatures soar above 120 Fahrenheit in Basra , fridges and air conditioners have stuttered to a halt .
The board 's final report , expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts , Gehman said .
The board 's final report , which is expected in late August , will stop short of assigning individual blame for the accident .
However , disability declined by more than 10 percent for those 60 to 69 , the study said .
Meanwhile , for people aged 60 to 69 , disability declined by more than 10 percent .
His spokesman , Tom Parker , said Moore 's attorneys would respond to the complaint Monday .
Parker said Moore 's lawyers were reviewing the complaint and would respond Monday .
Two officials initially said about 300 workers had been arrested at 61 stores in 21 states .
But the officials later revised the numbers and said about 250 had been arrested at some 60 stores .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another key Saudi operator for Al Qaeda and a second main suspect in the Riyadh bombings remains at large .
Turki Nasser al-Dandani , another suspected Saudi operative for Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network and top suspect in the Riyadh bombings , remains at large .
Mr Koizumi rebuked Mr Konoike , saying his remarks were " inappropriate " .
Koizumi told reporters at his office that Konoike 's remarks were " inappropriate . "
The company is highlighting the addition of .NET and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment ( EAE ) with the new mainframe .
The company is also adding .Net and J2EE support to its Enterprise Application Environment development toolset , Sapp said .
The man , Fazul Abdullah Mohammed , a Comoros islander , is on the U.S. FBI 's list of most wanted suspects .
A Comoros islander , he is on the United States ' list of most wanted suspects .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta _ including a blast at the 1996 Olympics _ along with the bombing in Alabama .
He is charged in three bombings in Atlanta including a blast at the 1996 Olympics and one in Alabama .
His election was hailed in some quarters as a breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned in others as a violation of God 's word .
Robinson 's election was hailed in some quarters as a major breakthrough for gay rights , but condemned by others as a " rebellion against God 's created order . "
But homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , have now been postponed indefinitely .
But the timing of homecomings for those soldiers , as well as the division 's 3rd Squadron , 7th Cavalry Regiment , is now indefinite .
Since June of last year the Red Cross has spent $ 114 million on disasters , but taken in only $ 40 million in donations .
Between July 1 , 2002 and June 30 , 2003 , the Red Cross spent $ 114 million on disaster relief , while taking in only $ 39.5 million .
The companies said " it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence . "
" In creating the game , it was not our intention to target or offend any group or persons or to incite hatred or violence against such groups persons . "
Privately-held GeCAD Software , founded in 1992 , has supplied antivirus and security products since 1994 under the name RAV AntiVirus .
GeCAD , founded in 1992 and based in Bucharest , provides anti-virus , anti-spam and content-filtering products under the name RAV AntiVirus .
Lloyds TSB confirmed on Tuesday it was " considering its options " over the sale of its National Bank of New Zealand subsidiary .
Lloyds TSB yesterday confirmed that it had received bids for its National Bank of New Zealand operation .
There is no transcript the courtroom session in Tarrytown , 12 miles north of New York on the Hudson River .
There was no transcript of Thursday 's courtroom session in Tarrytown , which is 12 miles north of New York City on the Hudson River .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler in New York 's diamond district , allegedly accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the missiles , the government said .
Yehuda Abraham , a 76-year-old jeweler from New York 's diamond district , accepted a $ 30,000 down payment on behalf of Lakhani for the first missile , investigators said .
On a positive note , C & W 's estimated lease commitments -- one potential hurdle to U.S. exit -- fell 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
Added to savings on the dividend , C & W 's estimated lease commitments , one hurdle to its U.S. escape , fell by 600 million pounds to 1.6 billion .
The NASD also alleges Young flew multiple times on Tyco corporate jets , often accompanied by Kozlowski .
The NASD alleges that the analyst flew multiples times on Tyco 's corporate jets for business trips , sometimes accompanied by Kozlowski .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by an eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , researchers have found .
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a maddening eye disease that is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly , doctors reported on Saturday .
The decision was among the most significant steps toward deregulation undertaken during the Bush administration .
The decision is among the far-reaching deregulatory actions made during the Bush administration .
Moffitt said the results need to be replicated in another study before testing of individuals for presence of the long or short versions of the gene will be pursued .
Professor Moffitt said the results needed to be replicated before pursuing testing of individuals for the presence of the long or short versions of the gene .
Gilroy police and FBI agents described Gehring as cooperative , but said Saturday that he had revealed nothing about what had happened to the children .
Saturday , officials in California described Gehring as cooperative — but said he has revealed nothing about what has happened to the children .
The stock closed Friday at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17 percent , on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
Shares of Brocade closed at $ 5.91 , down $ 1.24 , or 17.3 percent .
Immediately after the blast , people portraying some of the 150 " victims " stumbled amid the wreckage as emergency vehicles converged on the scene .
Immediately after the small explosion , people portraying victims stumbled amid the wreckage as fire trucks and other emergency vehicles converged .
He attends football training for three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , and has lost 17 kilograms since October .
Mr Hughes , who trains three hours a day to accelerate the healing process , has lost 17 kilos since October .
The condition is associated with heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness , and amputations .
Those with diabetes run the risk of severe complications , including heart disease , chronic kidney disease , blindness and amputations .
It names Shelley , Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters Conny McCormack , and registrars in Orange and San Diego counties as defendants .
The lawsuit names Shelley , a Democrat , and registrars in Los Angeles , Orange and San Diego counties .
Goodyear 's third-quarter earnings report , which had been scheduled to be released on Thursday , was postponed until November .
It canceled its third-quarter earnings announcement , which had been scheduled for this morning .
Following the ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers of pending action , it issued another statement that Hewitt has added to his suit .
Following ATP 's notification by Hewitt 's lawyers that action was pending , it issued another statement in April which Hewitt has added to his suit .
He praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying that it was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
Blair praised the work of the Rhodes Trust , saying it was an Australian Rhodes Scholar he met while at Oxford who first interested him in politics .
IBM is also " pursuing membership in the group " and plans to be an active participant , according to the CELF statement .
CELF said IBM is pursuing membership and plans to be an active participant in the forum .
His opinion contradicts one issued in 1992 by then-Attorney General Bob Stephan .
Kline 's legal opinion differs from the interpretation issued by former Attorney General Bob Stephan in 1992 .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that does not necessarily prompt thoughts of Lee .
Viacom 's lawyers say Spike is a common name that doesn 't necessarily prompt thoughts of the 46-year-old film director .
He urged member states that contribute police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Undersecretary-General for Peacekeeping Jean-Marie Guehenno urged member states contributing police and soldiers to U.N. peacekeeping operations to provide more women .
Even later in life , he was still cashing in : lately , he earned money by calling fans on the telephone with the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Lately , he had earned money by calling fans on the telephone , taking part in the service www.HollywoodIsCalling.com.
Bremer said one initiative is to launch a US $ 70 million nationwide program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods and build community projects .
Bremer said he would launch a $ 70-million program in the next two weeks to clean up neighborhoods across Iraq and build community projects , but gave no details .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee at a separate hearing .
" Such communication will help adult smokers make more informed choices , " company vice president Richard Verheij told a separate hearing , before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee .
He blamed guerrillas from the Taliban regime ousted in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber died in the blast .
He blamed the blast on guerillas from the Taliban regime overthrown in late 2001 and said it was possible the bomber was killed in the blast .
Sen. Charles Schumer , D-N.Y. , sent a letter to President Bush Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
Sen. Charles Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) , a supporter of Boxer 's bill , sent a letter to President Bush on Wednesday demanding action on the legislation .
" We 're confident that the new leadership will take responsibility for the past actions of the Archdiocese of Boston , " Lincoln said .
" We are confident that the new leadership in Boston will be willing to take responsibility for the past actions of the archdiocese , ' said Lincoln . "
It passed only after Republicans won the support of two wavering senators , Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Republican George Voinovich of Ohio .
It passed only after Republicans won the support of Voinovich and another wavering senator , Nelson of Nebraska .
Long lines formed outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines Sunday as Israelis prepared to weather a strike that threatened to paralyze the country .
Long lines formed Sunday outside gas stations and people rushed to get money from cash machines as Israelis braced for the strike 's effects .
Two Americans killed in a recent ambush in Afghanistan were contract employees of the CIA , the agency said Tuesday .
Two CIA operatives have been killed in an ambush in Afghanistan , the CIA said yesterday .
It 's a task that would challenge even the sharpest of computer geeks : set up a hacker-proof computer network for 190,000 government workers across the country fighting terrorism .
It would be a daunting challenge for even the sharpest programming wizards : set up a secure computer network for the 190,000 workers in the Homeland Security Department .
Gartner analysts said that businesses are not yet feeling confident enough to upgrade corporate PCs .
What 's more , companies are not feeling confident enough to replace older PCs , the analyst firm said .
" The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability . "
The actions reflect our strong forward momentum as we intensify our business focus and work to achieve profitability , " said Katsumi Ihara , president of Sony Ericsson .
Sales - a figure watched closely as a barometer of its health - rose 5 percent instead of falling as many industry experts had predicted .
It also disclosed that sales -- a figure closely watched by analysts as a barometer of its health -- were significantly higher than industry experts expected .
The judge ordered the unsealing yesterday at the request of several news agencies , including The Seattle Times , The Associated Press and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer .
The depositions were made public yesterday at the request of the P-I , The Seattle Times and The Associated Press .
It will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software , the mobile operator said .
According to the company , it will be the first handset to ship with the Smartphone 2003 version of Microsoft 's ( Nasdaq : MSFT ) Windows Mobile software .
Neither military action nor large-scale bribery can solve the North Korean problem , Wolfowitz said .
Indeed , Wolfowitz admitted Saturday that neither military action nor " large scale bribery " would solve the issue .
Federal Judge William Barbour said Tuesday he imposed the maximum sentence because Avants showed no remorse in the brutal slaying .
U.S. District Judge William Barbour said he imposed the maximum because Avants showed no remorse .
The notification was first reported Friday by MSNBC .
MSNBC.com first reported the CIA request on Friday .
R & D spending is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , as compared to the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Spending on research and development is expected to be $ 4.4 billion for the year , compared with the previous expectation of $ 4.3 billion .
Josephine Burke , who ran the unlicensed daycare , eventually served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child neglect charges .
Josephine Burke , who ran the illegal day care , served four months in prison on misdemeanor assault and child-neglect charges .
Tropical Storm Claudette continued its slow churn toward the Texas coast early Sunday , with forecasters expecting the plodding storm system to make landfall as a hurricane by early Tuesday .
Tropical Storm Claudette headed for the Texas coast Saturday , with forecasters saying the sluggish storm system could reach hurricane strength before landfall early Tuesday .
The researchers at Imperial College London had previously shown that the hormone could suppress the appetites of lean people .
Bloom and his colleagues had previously shown that the hormone , PYY3-36 , could curb the appetites of lean people .
I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , he said Sunday inside the Grand Central concourse .
" I wanted to bring the most beautiful people into the most beautiful building , " Tunick said Sunday .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the Nasdaq has barreled back 21.2 percent .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
The tuxedo shop was used as a front for laundering proceeds from a stolen credit cards .
Ragin and Hayes were accused of using a phony tuxedo rental business as a front for laundering proceeds from stolen credit cards .
Two of the Britons , Sandy Mitchell from Glasgow and Glasgow-born William Sampson , face the death penalty .
Sandy Mitchell , 44 , from Kirkintilloch , Glasgow , and William Sampson , a British citizen born in Glasgow , face beheading in public .
The WHO says the latest case does not fit its profile of SARS and is not a public health concern .
The WHO has said the Singapore case did not fit its profile of SARS and was " not an international public health concern . "
For the third time in the past four years , wildfires are the problem .
It was the third time in four years that wildfires forced the park to close .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber in to the U.S. market , " Rusty Wood , chairman of the coalition , said in a release .
" The NAFTA ruling confirms that Canadian producers dump lumber into the U.S. market , " said Rusty Wood , chairman of the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said that portion of the DMCA gives too much leeway to copyright holders .
Cindy Cohn , legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation , said Monday that section 512 hands too much power to copyright holders .
Muhammad and fellow sniper suspect Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr. Muhammad , 42 , and 18-year-old Lee Boyd Malvo , who goes on trial separately Nov. 10 , were arrested Oct. 24 , 2002 , at a Maryland highway rest stop .
Mr Eddington warned yesterday that the future of the airline was " in the hands of the negotiators " .
" The future of BA is in the hands of the negotiators , " Eddington told British Broadcasting Corp. television on Sunday .
Ride , astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein will enter the hall of fame together .
Ride will be enshrined along with astronauts Story Musgrave , Robert " Hoot " Gibson and Daniel Brandenstein .
Jim Furyk celebrated his first Father 's Day as a father by winning his first major golf championship .
His first Father 's Day as a dad , his first major as a champion .
On Monday , a suicide bomber blew himself up near the United Nations compound here , killing a security guard as well as himself .
On Monday , a suicide car bomber blew himself up close to the United Nations compound in Baghdad , also killing a security guard .
Grant also has been elected to Monsanto 's board of directors , the company said in a statement .
Grant , a 22-year Monsanto veteran , also has been elected to the company 's board of directors , Monsanto said in a statement .
The stock rose $ 2.11 , or about 11 percent , to close Friday at $ 21.51 on the New York Stock Exchange .
PG & E Corp. shares jumped $ 1.63 or 8 percent to $ 21.03 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday .
One of the most well studied facets of temperament is how people respond to novelty .
One of the defining and well-studied characteristics of temperament is how people react to novelty .
Dr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure .
Mr Blix said : " I don 't know exactly how they calculated this figure of 45 minutes in the dossier .
" This deal makes sense for both companies , " Halla said in a prepared statement .
Brian Halla , CEO of NatSemi , claimed the deal made sense for both companies .
The report said the Corpus Christi-based agent twice called Escobar while the legislator was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The report said the agent twice called state Rep. Juan Escobar while he was with the other protesting Democrats in Ardmore , Okla .
The specific product that is the subject of the petition , 6000 series aluminium alloy rolled plate , is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
At the center of the petition is a 6000 series aluminum alloy rolled plate that is used for general-purpose engineering , tooling and die applications .
A Stage One alert is declared when ozone readings exceed 0.20 parts per million during a one-hour period .
A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels reach 0.20 parts per million .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 .
One of the Oregon species was acclimated to a temperature of 65 ( 18.33 Celsius ) , but survived until the aquarium temperature reached 87 ( 30.56 Celsius ) .
Other data showed that buyers snapped up new and existing homes at a brisk pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Other data showed sales of existing and new homes grew at a robust pace in April , spurred by low mortgage rates .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court had no jurisdiction over those crimes .
Defence lawyers sought to have those charges thrown out , claiming the Bali court hearing Mr Samudra 's case did not have jurisdiction over those crimes .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , the American Cancer Society journal , being published online today .
The results appear in the January issue of Cancer , an American Cancer Society ( news - web sites ) journal , being published online Monday .
Blair himself took the reins of the Labour Party after its leader John Smith died of a heart attack in 1994 .
Mr Blair became Labour leader in 1994 after the then leader , John Smith , died of a heart attack .
An Associated Press report is included .
Material from the Associated Press supplemented this report .
However , the standards body warns that changes to Internet Explorer may affect a " large number " of existing Web sites .
Still , changes to IE " may affect a large number of existing Web pages , " according to the W3C 's notice .
Where long-lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks in past decades , they are now lucky to catch one , the study found .
" Whereas long lines used to catch 10 fish per 100 hooks , now they are lucky to catch one , " Myers said .
Experts said the case marks one of the first times in which a parent was charged with contributing to a child 's suicide .
Legal experts say the case may mark the first time a parent has been convicted of contributing to a child 's suicide .
It said a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission is expected as well .
Stewart also faces a separate investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe theres no place but Lowes Motor Speedway that can do it justice .
" Based on the history and success of The Winston in Charlotte , I believe there 's no place but Lowe 's Motor Speedway that can do it justice . "
The Ministry of Defence is facing a 20m compensation claim from hundreds of Kenyan women who claim they were raped by British soldiers .
Hundreds of Kenyan women claiming they were attacked and raped by British soldiers were granted government legal aid Wednesday to pursue their case against the Ministry of Defense .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " FirstEnergy Chief Executive Peter Burg told the House panel .
" Events on our system , in and of themselves , could not account for the widespread nature of the outage , " Burg said .
If convicted , Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison based on new laws in Romania designed to prosecute cybercrime , Softwin said .
Ciobanu could face up to 15 years in prison under a new law in Romania , according to BitDefender 's Web site .
The woman , Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , was arrested by the state police on Nov. 20 and charged with first-degree larceny .
Mary Kathryn Miller , 55 , of 27 Devon Road , Darien , was arrested Nov. 20 by state police and charged with first-degree larceny .
Media giant Vivendi Universal EAUG.PA V.N set to work sifting through bids for its U.S. entertainment empire on Monday in a multibillion-dollar auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
Media moguls jostled for position as the deadline for bids for Vivendi Universal 's U.S. entertainment empire neared on Monday in an auction of some of Hollywood 's best-known assets .
More than 1,000 people staged mostly peaceful protests during the talks , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
More than 1,000 people rallied over three days , proclaiming that genetically modified foods weren 't the answer to the world 's food problems .
The chip also features an updated LongRun power and heat management system .
It also features Nvidia 's own PowerMizer power management system .
" He would often call me for advice , " said Ronald L. Kuby , a friend and well-known lawyer who had represented him in the harassment case .
" He would often call me for advice , " said lawyer Ron Kuby , a friend who had represented him in court .
Russia , along with France , China and others , advocate a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
Tomorrow 's testimony is to give an inside look at tax shelter development and marketing .
Tuesday ’ s testimony is to give an inside look at tax-shelter development and marketing .
" It 's unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt , " said Taylor Gross , a White House spokesman .
" It is unfortunate that Senator Clinton would seek to politicize such a qualified nominee as Governor Leavitt .
WorldCom , brought down by an $ 11 billion accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
WorldCom , decimated by a massive accounting scandal , is adopting the name of its MCI long-distance division in a bid to clean up its image .
" We are in the process of a thorough internal review with the assistance of outside professionals , " she said in the statement .
Strong Financial released a statement Wednesday night : " We are in the process of a thorough internal review .
Xerox shares closed at $ 11.45 , up 2 cents on the New York Stock Exchange .
Xerox shares rose 2 cents to close at $ 11.45 on the New York Stock Exchange .
A base configuration with a 2.0GHz Intel Celeron processor , 128M bytes of memory , a 40G-byte hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs US $ 729 .
A base configuration with a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 , 128MB of RAM , a 40GB hard drive , and a CD-ROM drive costs $ 699 .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
But as more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public the safety it needed .
But as time passed and more people were shot , Moose had to admit that he couldn 't give the public what it needed most from the police - safety .
Car volume fell 8 per cent , while light truck sales -- which include vans , pickups and SUVs -- rose 2.7 per cent .
Car volume was down 8 percent , while light truck sales--which include vans , pickups and SUVs--rose 2.7 percent .
Last month , 62 Spanish peacekeepers died when their plane crashed in Turkey as they were returning home .
In another disaster , 62 Spanish peacekeepers were killed May 26 when their plane crashed in Turkey on their way home .
She estimated it would take three months and would require cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
She said it would take an estimated three months to conduct and require the cancellation of a sub-audit of the Department of Environmental Quality .
State Sen. Vi Simpson , former state and national Democratic chairman Joe Andrew are seeking the Democratic nomination .
Leading Democratic candidates are former state and national Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew and State Sen. Vi Simpson , Ellettsville .
Respondents who rated current business conditions as " bad " increased to 30.4 % from 28.1 % in June .
" Those rating present business conditions as ' bad ' increased to 30.4 per cent from 28.1 per cent , " the report said .
Trevor Fetter , who returned to Tenet as president last November , has been appointed as acting CEO , the company said .
The board has appointed Trevor Fetter , who returned to the company as president last November , as acting CEO .
Comcast Class A shares were up 8 cents at $ 30.50 in morning trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market .
The stock rose 48 cents to $ 30 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading .
An officer in the People 's Liberation Army selected from a pool of 14 , Lt-Col Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
A lieutenant colonel in the People 's Liberation Army , Yang is the son of a teacher and an official at an agricultural firm .
Seattle Deputy Police Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise here went well , with some aspects , including the communication system linking various agencies , working better than expected .
Police Deputy Chief Clark Kimerer said the exercise went well , with some aspects , including the communication system between varying agencies , working better than expected .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the issue of medicating patients to improve their mental health to execute them might present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Scholars in medical ethics have said the notion of medicating people to improve their mental health to the point where they may be executed can present formidable obstacles for doctors .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk said his office received the recordings this week .
Galveston County District Attorney Kurt Sistrunk told Criss Wednesday his office only this week received the recordings .
In a televised interview on Wednesday , ECB President Wim Duisenberg said it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the 12-nation euro zone .
European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said in a televised interview that it was too soon to discuss further interest rate cuts in the euro zone .
Two of his cousins members of the Jordanian royal family have been mentioned as possible contenders to the throne .
In addition , two of his cousins - members of the Jordanian royal family - have been mentioned as possible competition for the throne .
Belgium said Saturday it has decided to scrap a controversial war crimes law which has seen cases launched against President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Belgium said yesterday that it has decided to scrap a war crimes law used to launch cases against President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel .
He said that it would be ' ' very difficult ' ' to establish a cause of death .
Even with time , he said , " it 's going to be very difficult to determine the cause of death . "
British-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc said earlier this year it would cut off supplies to Canadian drugstores that ship to the United States .
GlaxoSmithKline , the UK drugmaker , has said it would cut off supplies to Canadian stores shipping drugs to the US .
" The court expects that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary , " O 'Connor wrote .
O 'Connor wrote , " We expect that 25 years from now , the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary . "
" He did a bad job going up there , " Mr. Villalona said .
Villalona put it more bluntly : ``He did a bad job going up there , ' ' he said .
The British ambassador to the United Nations , Sir Jeremy Greenstock , is scheduled to lead a Security Council Mission to the region in mid-May .
Sir Jeremy Greenstock , the UK 's ambassador to the UN , is due to lead a week-long Security Council mission to West Africa in mid-May .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on a controversial gas project , a reform of a free market energy law and constitutional reforms .
Sanchez de Lozada promised a referendum on the gas project , a reform of energy laws and constitutional changes .
A spokesman said : " Further testing is under way but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook is positive . "
" Further testing is still under way , but at this stage , given the early detection , the outlook in such instances would be positive , " the specialist said yesterday .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh , 52 , said during a stunning admission aired nationwide .
" You know I have always tried to be honest with you and open about my life , " Limbaugh said Friday on his program .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " said Robert A. Eckert , chief executive .
" As expected , second-quarter sales were weak driven by the combination of declining retail inventories and market-share losses , " Chief Executive Robert Eckert said in a statement .
The Turkish troops also could be targets for attack , the ambassador acknowledged .
Turkish troops almost surely would become targets for terrorists , the ambassador said .
Analysts have predicted third-quarter earnings of 16 cents a share and revenue of $ 7.15 billion , on average .
Analysts surveyed by Reuters Research expected earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $ 6.7 billion , on average .
The current plan is to release the videotapes of the sessions , after U.S. review , on Friday , said Jim Landale , a spokesman for the tribunal .
The current plan is to release videotapes of the sessions on Friday , after the review , said Jim Landale , a tribunal spokesman .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires like Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Ueberroth , both Republican candidates .
The law does not regulate how much individuals can contribute to their own campaigns , a decided advantage for millionaires such as Schwarzenegger and Ueberroth .
Meteorologists predicted the storm would become a Category 1 hurricane before landfall .
It was predicted to become a Category I hurricane overnight .
NASA satellite images show that Arctic ice has been shrinking at the rate of nearly 10 percent a decade .
Researchers found that sea ice in the Arctic is disappearing at a rate of 9 percent each decade .
Microsoft has proposed a work-around that consumers and enterprises should implement until a new patch is released .
In lieu of a direct patch , Microsoft has proposed a workaround that consumers can implement until a new patch is released .
Like Viacom , GE -- parent of NBC -- is also seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared to the likes of Bronfman or Davis .
Like Viacom , General Electric is seen as a less enthusiastic bidder compared with Bronfman or Davis .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , the CDC 's director , told a news briefing Thursday .
" The numbers are starting to change very , very quickly , " Dr. Julie Gerberding , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said Thursday .
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting gets under way on Tuesday with a monetary policy decision due on Wednesday .
The Federal Open Market Committee will end its two-day policy-setting meeting and announce its decision on Wednesday .
The church was already grieving the death of Chief Warrant Officer 3 Kyran Kennedy , a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
The church already was grieving for the death of a congregation member who was killed in another helicopter crash in Iraq on Nov. 7 .
But Mr. Peterson added , " I don 't know anybody in the conference committee who 's fighting to keep it out completely . "
But Peterson added , I dont know anybody in the conference committee whos fighting to keep it out completely .
" It 's routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT teams to rigorously test new platforms and technologies inside IBM , " she said .
" It is routine for IBM to challenge its internal IT team to rigorously test new platforms and technology inside IBM . "
In addition to O 'Connor , Rehnquist 's majority opinion was joined by Justices David Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg , and Stephen Breyer .
Joining him in the majority opinion were Justices Sandra Day O 'Connor , David H. Souter , Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AustMag directors will have to abandon the project in order to avoid trading while the company is insolvent .
If the extra equity for the project cannot be found , AMC directors will have to abandon it to avoid trading while AMC is insolvent .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organiser , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 ] , " to extend the contest until 8am ( AEST ) today .
Three such vigilante-style attacks forced the hacker organizer , who identified himself only as " Eleonora67 , " to extend the contest until 6 p.m. EDT Sunday .
When Biggs 's body was found , authorities had no leads until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Authorities had no leads in Biggs ' death until four months later , when a tipster said Mallard talked about the incident at a party .
Five foreign embassies , including the Singapore embassy , in Bangkok were among the targets , it said .
Five foreign embassies in Bangkok , including the Singapore embassy , were among those targeted .
It recommended that consideration be given to making the job of CIA director a career post instead of a political appointment .
It suggests that Congress consider making the CIA director a professional position , rather than a political appointment .
Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen has strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened .
Japan 's Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said the yen had strengthened too much but declined to comment on whether Japan had intervened in the market to stem the yen 's rise .
He was listed last night in critical but stable condition at Kings County Hospital Center , police said .
That victim , a New Jersey resident , was in critical but stable condition at the hospital .
The study was presented yesterday in Chicago at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America .
Both sets of findings were presented Monday at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago .
" It was one of the first times in my life that I felt we were truly being treated as Americans , ' ' she said .
" It was one of the few times in my life when I felt that we were truly being treated as Americans . "
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.3 per cent at 9,886.75 , while the Nasdaq Composite index was 0.4 per cent higher at 1,986.97 .
On Wall Street , the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.5 per cent at 9,905.8 and the Nasdaq Composite added 0.7 per cent at 1,995.1 .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held at a secret location by the United States .
The only other JI member to reveal similar information is Omar al Faruq , now held by the United States at a secret location .
Treasury prices rose slightly , sending the 10-year note yield down to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent late Friday .
Treasury prices gained for the third day in a row , pushing the 10-year note yield down to 4.35 percent from 4.36 percent late Monday .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from Ford Credit , which earned a net $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent .
Nearly all of Ford 's second-quarter profit came from its Ford Credit finance arm , which earned $ 401 million , up 21.5 percent from a year earlier .
Roberson was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , according to her mother , Shamika Woumnm of Dorchester .
She was bitten on the back and scratched on the leg , her mother said .
" The difference is just something called the tuner , which is a very small piece of equipment . "
The only difference is a tuner , a small piece of electronics . "
" I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hate most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex . "
It went on : " I picked prostitutes as my victims because I hated most prostitutes and I did not want to pay them for sex .
Only Intel Corp. has a lower dividend yield .
Only Intel 's 0.3 percent yield is lower .
On the Mediterranean coast of neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered in the port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
In neighboring Turkey , Iraqi , U.S. and Turkish officials gathered at the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for a ceremony launching the shipment .
Tonight a spokesman for Russia 's foreign ministry said the ministry may issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on cooperation with Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
Tonight a spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said it might issue a statement on Thursday clarifying Russia 's position on aiding Iran 's nuclear-energy efforts .
A member of the chart-topping collective So Solid Crew dumped a loaded pistol in an alleyway as he fled from police , a court heard yesterday .
A member of the rap group So Solid Crew threw away a loaded gun during a police chase , Southwark Crown Court was told yesterday .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4-GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11M , 22M , 33M , 44M and 55Mbit / sec .
The new WPAN standard uses the 2.4 GHz unlicensed frequency band and specifies raw data rates of 11 , 22 , 33 , 44 and 55Mbit / s .
Florida 's primary isn 't until March 9 - following 28 other states .
Florida 's primary will be March 9 , after 28 states ' primaries or caucuses .
Financial terms of the deal , expected to close this month , were not released .
Financial terms of the sale , which is expected to be completed by the end of August , were not disclosed .
The German financial regulator , BaFin , may prove critical of WestLB 's risk assessment .
An investigation by BaFin , the German financial regulator , has condemned the bank 's risk controls .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control this month .
Despite such optimism , Taiwan 's SARS crisis threatened to whirl out of control in the last week of May .
The companies also announced plans to collaborate on the design for future generations of memory technologies .
The two groups said they would collaborate on the design of future memory technologies .
France , Russia , China and others had advocated a stronger U.N. role to give a U.S.-chosen Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
France , Russia , China and even staunch ally Britain had advocated a stronger U.N. role , which they said was needed to give a U.S.-backed Iraqi authority international legitimacy .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " said Andy Bryant , Intel 's chief financial officer .
That 's the highest third-quarter growth rate we 've seen in over 25 years , " CFO Andy Bryant told the Associated Press .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of Jack Nicklaus who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before faltering to a 69 .
Gary Nicklaus , the 34-year-old son of the Golden Bear who is playing on a sponsor 's exemption , birdied five of his first nine holes before shooting 69 .
Kelly said Mr Rumsfeld last month made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honour should go to all men and women who wear the US uniform .
Kelly said Rumsfeld , in a November interview , made the unsolicited suggestion that this year 's honor go to all men and women who wear the U.S. uniform .
The new Finder puts a user 's folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location , providing one-click access .
Panther 's redesigned Finder navigation tool puts a user 's favourite folders , hard drive , network servers , iDisk and removable media in one location .
About 700 MONUC troops are based in Bunia , but the force has neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
The United Nations has about 700 troops on the ground , but they have neither the mandate nor the manpower to stop the fighting .
At the Pentagon , the Department of Defense 's Inspector General has separately been asked to investigate how the telecom licences were awarded .
But a source close to the Pentagon said the Defense Department 's own inspector-general had been asked to investigate how the licences were awarded .
The U.S. Conference Board said its latest measure of business confidence hit 60 after falling to 53 in its first quarter survey .
The Conference Board said its measure of business confidence , which had fallen to 53 in the first quarter of 2003 , improved to 60 in the most recent second quarter .
On Thursday , authorities evacuated residents who live in the canyon and closed off the road leading there .
Authorities evacuated residents and closed off the road leading to Waterman Canyon .
Two brothers who were among seven Portland suspects accused of aiding terrorists have decided to plead guilty to conspiring to aid al-Qaida and the Taliban , officials said Wednesday .
Two brothers who were among seven people accused of aiding terrorists pleaded guilty yesterday to charges of conspiring to help Al Qaeda and the Taliban during the war in Afghanistan .
" They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence of the risks of this and other drugs in the future .
They will feel themselves to be deceived and they may well dismiss legitimate evidence for the dangers and risks of this and other drugs in the future . "
Overall , 83 percent of women washed up , compared with 74 percent of men .
But in San Francisco , 80 percent of men and only 59 percent of women washed their hands .
The Prime Ministers of China , Russia and four central Asian nations have met in Beijing and approved a budget for their regional security grouping .
The prime ministers of China , Russia and four Central Asian countries signed agreements on Tuesday that set plans in motion for a long-awaited regional anti-terrorism centre in Uzbekistan .
During the fiscal second quarter , Cisco earned $ 991 million , or 14 cents a share , on sales of $ 4.7 billion .
Cisco reported earnings of $ 987 million , or 14 cents a share , on revenue of $ 4.62 billion for the quarter ending in April .
TSMC also accused Syndia of trying to interfere with its customer relationships .
TSMC feels that Syndia 's actions are designed to interfere with TSMC 's customer relationships , the company said .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , increasing the chances that the effectiveness of the medication will be diffused .
Still others cite the difficulty of assembling a group of subjects whose depression is of comparable severity , a problem that complicates the task of properly measuring effectiveness .
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators joined the mechanics in the picket line .
Nearly 6,000 MTA drivers and train operators then walked off the job in solidarity .
" If that ain 't a Democrat , then I must be at the wrong meeting , " he said to a standing ovation .
And if that ain 't a Democrat , then I must be in the wrong meeting , " he said to thunderous applause from his supporters .
Its attackers had to fire their rockets from hundreds of yards away , with a makeshift launcher hidden in a portable electric generator .
Its attackers had to launch their strike from hundreds of metres away , with a makeshift rocket launcher disguised as a portable electric generator .
Marisa Baldeo stated , however , the authority 's official uniform policy says " they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap .
" As of now , they are not supposed to wear anything on their heads but a NYC transit depot logo cap , " Baldeo said .
The juvenile arrested yesterday allegedly authored a variant of the worm known as " RPCSDBOT . "
The variant the juvenile allegedly created was known as " RPCSDBOT . "
Other recall suits are pending in federal court .
There are three suits challenging the recall still pending in federal court .
" Ms. Stewart is being prosecuted not because of who she is , but because of what she did , " Comey said .
" Martha Stewart is not being prosecuted for who she is but for what she did . "
" The woman was taken to New Charing Cross Hospital by ambulance and her condition is critical .
She was taken to Charing Cross Hospital , where she remained critically ill last night .
However , commercial use of the 2.6.0 kernel is still months off for most customers .
Commercial releases of the 2.6 kernel by major Linux distributors still remain months away .
For the week , the Russell 2000 , the barometer of smaller company stocks , advanced 11.92 , or 2.5 percent , closing at 497.42 .
The Russell 2000 index , which tracks smaller company stocks , was up 1.02 , or 0.21 percent , at 496.83 .
Brian Brabazon said his son would get upset but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Her son would get upset , his mom said , but then turn around and befriend his taunters .
Blagojevich reiterated his stance Wednesday to not prop up the budget with a gambling expansion .
Governor Rod Blagojevich said he would not balance the state budget with gambling revenues .
In the first stage of the attack , the Lovsan worm began fouling computers around the world .
The first stage of the malicious software began Monday , when the Lovsan worm began spreading around the world .
Kyi , a U.N. envoy says , as Japan adds to growing international pressure by saying it will halt its hefty economic aid unless Suu Kyi is freed .
JAPAN added to growing international pressure on Burma yesterday , threatening to halt its hefty economic aid unless the military government released pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
But the new vaccine will not even begin to be tested in people until 2005 and will not be approved for use for several years after that .
However , the new vaccine won 't begin to be tested in people until 2005 and won 't be approved for use for several years after that .
The UAW earlier this week reached tentative agreements , also for four years , with Ford Motor Co . , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
The union earlier this week announced tentative agreements with Ford Motor Co . , DaimlerChrysler AG 's Chrysler Group and supplier Visteon Corp.
She said Jane Doe 's lawyers asked Verizon to withhold her name because she was planning on challenging the subpoena .
Jane Doe , deciding to fight the subpoena , asked Verizon to withhold her name .
The Legislature returns today for a special session and they 're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Florida legislators return today for a special session in which they 're expected to pass a compromise bill aimed at lowering doctors ' medical malpractice insurance rates .
Ryan Harvey , an outfielder from Dunedin High School in Florida , was selected with the sixth pick by the Chicago Cubs .
Ryan Harvey , a high school outfielder from Florida , was chosen sixth by the Cubs .
When police removed the four from the home , they weighed 136 pounds combined .
Each boy weighed less than 50 pounds when they were removed from the home Oct. 10 .
But price declines have remained below 30 percent , year over year , for the last two quarters , said IDC analyst John McArthur .
McArthur told internetnews.com price declines have moderated and remained below 30 percent from the previous year for the last two quarters .
A nationally board certified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley , in his 30th year teaching , makes $ 65,000 .
A nationally board-certified teacher with a master 's degree , Kelley makes $ 65,000 in his 30th year .
Come tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
As many as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
The capsule landed on its side and drifted about 12 metres , probably dragged by the main parachute .
The capsule ended up on its side and appeared to have been dragged about 40ft by the main parachute after landing .
They suspect the same anarchist group that claimed responsibility for the Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
Italian police investigating the Prodi bomb suspect an anarchist group that claimed responsibility for Dec. 21 explosions near his house , according to Italian news agency ANSA .
And if estimates hold , it will mark the first time in history that five films grossed more than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
It is also the first time in history that five films grossed more than $ 20 million each in one weekend .
The plea makes Grass the second high-ranking Rite Aid executive to strike a deal with federal prosecutors in the past two weeks .
Grass is the second of the Rite Aid defendants to strike a deal with federal prosecutors this month .
Police believe someone strangled her and she may have been sexually assaulted .
Park appeared to have been strangled and may have been sexually assaulted , Homicide Capt. Charles Bloom said .
It has a plus or minus 4.9 percent margin of error .
It had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points .
Shares of MONY were gaining $ 2.57 , or 9 % , to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading on Instinet .
MONY shares rose 8.76 per cent to $ 31.90 in after-hours trading in New York .
Labor Department analysts think the payroll statistics from the survey of businesses provide a more accurate picture of the economy because the survey figures are based on a larger sample .
The analysts said they believe the payroll statistics provide a more accurate picture of the economy because they are based on a larger sample .
Economists said that raised the odds of a rate cut at the Fed 's next meeting on June 24-25 .
Economists said those concerns raised the odds that the Fed might reduce rates at its next meeting on June 24-25 .
Food and Drug Administration ( news - web sites ) Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's initiative could start an important trend .
U.S. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Mark McClellan said Kraft 's could start an important trend .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process for writing a new constitution and for holding the first democratic elections .
That state will not emerge until the interim government decides on a process to write a new constitution and to hold the first democratic elections .
It said the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gasses to penetrate the ship 's thermal armor during Columbia 's ill-fated reentry .
The document says the damage to the wing provided a pathway for hot gases to penetrate Columbia 's thermal armour during its fatal re-entry .
In the total external disk storage system market , revenue increased 1.5 percent year over year in the third quarter , to $ 3.2 billion .
In the total external disk storage system market , McArthur said revenue increased 1.5 percent year-over-year in Q3 to $ 3.2 billion .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a Bloomfield Township parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb in Oakland County .
Tonight , 21-year-old Morgan and as many as 1,200 fellow students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym for the first real dance in the school 's 143-year history .
As many as 1,200 students at Wheaton College will gather in the gym Friday night for the first real dance in the Christian school 's 143-year history .
" After what happened here ... it 's tacky and unpatriotic , " said JoAnn Marquis , visiting the site with her husband from Salem , Mass .
" It 's nasty , " said JoAnn Marquis , visiting with her husband from Salem , Mass . " After what happened here .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was charged with murder in five Jacksonville slayings between December and February , and is also suspected of a 1997 Georgia killing .
Paul Durousseau , 30 , was charged Tuesday with murder in five slayings between December and February , and also is suspected of a 1997 killing in the state of Georgia .
Stack said he did no work for Triumph until 1999 , when a grand jury began investigating Silvester .
Stack testified that he was not asked to do any work for Triumph until June 1999 , after a grand jury investigating Silvester subpoenaed Triumph .
Except for a few archaic characteristics , they are as recognizable as Hamlet 's poor Yorick .
Except for a few archaic characteristics , the skulls are readily recognizable .
A call to Rev. Christopher Coyne , the spokesman for the archdiocese , was not immediately returned .
The Rev. Christopher J. Coyne , spokesman for the archdiocese , wouldn 't comment Friday .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced Tuesdays ban , also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to help .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman , who announced yesterday 's ban , also said Washington would send a technical team to Canada to assist in the Canadian situation .
About 130,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq , with others deployed in Afghanistan , South Korea and elsewhere .
About 130,000 US soldiers remain in Iraq , with others serving in Afghanistan , South Korea , Japan , Germany and elsewhere .
Thirty-eight percent of patients surveyed in five urban clinics believed the myth that cancer spreads when exposed to air during surgery , according to a poll to be published Tuesday .
Thirty-eight percent of cancer patients in five urban clinics believed the myth that the disease spreads when exposed to air during surgery , according to a survey .
But the institute says the department " woefully underestimates " the changes that would occur under the proposal .
But the institute says the department ‘ ‘ woefully underestimates ’ ’ the changes that would occur if the proposal is implemented .
They returned in 1999 after rebel raids on a neighboring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-building bombings that were blamed on the rebels .
In 1999 , troops returned after rebel raids on a neighbouring Russian region and a series of deadly apartment-house bombings in Russian cities that were blamed on the rebels .
" This is , I think , a very seminal moment in our agency 's history , " Mr O 'Keefe said .
" I think we are at a seminal moment in the history of this agency , " he said .
More than 60 percent of the company 's 1,000 employees were killed in the attack .
More than 60 per cent of its 1,000 employees at the time were killed .
Meanwhile , the global death toll approached 770 with more than 8,300 people sickened since the severe acute respiratory syndrome virus first appeared in southern China in November .
The global death toll from SARS was at least 767 , with more than 8,300 people sickened since the virus first appeared in southern China in November .
As a teen , he stabbed a 6-year-old boy , nearly killing him , for no apparent reason .
He also told investigators that when he was in his mid-teens , he stabbed a 6-year-old boy for no apparent reason .
" People who are high in positive emotions sleep better , they have better diets , they exercise more , they have lower levels of these stress hormones , " Cohen said .
" Happy people sleep better , have better diets , exercise more and have less levels of stress hormones , " Cohen said .
It is rare for a legal challenge to occur before a bill becomes law .
Experts say legal challenges are rare before a bill becomes law .
He said there were complex reasons for the increased numbers of cases and scientists were only just beginning to understand the risk factors .
However , he said , The reasons behind the increase in incidence are more complex and were just beginning to understand the risk factors .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years , but he has said many communities , especially rural ones , have opposed it .
Jacob has pushed consolidation for years but said it has been opposed by many communities , especially rural ones .
A grief-stricken old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , uttering : " My child , my child . "
One old woman , disconsolate with grief , smeared her face with dirt , only able to utter : " My child , my child . "
Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . WCOEQ.PK and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target .
Analysts attributed its rise to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom Inc . < WCOEQ.PK > and talk that AT & T could be a takeover target , among other factors .
The three priests were careful to go through church channels first as they exercised their rights under canon law .
The priests went through church channels first , exercising their rights under canon law .
Missouri Gov. Bob Holden asked the White House to declare a federal disaster in 39 counties .
Gov. Bob Holden asked Bush to declare 39 Missouri counties disaster areas .
ImClone Systems Inc. and Genentech Inc. led shares of U.S. biotechnology companies higher after medicines they are developing helped cancer patients in studies .
ImClone Systems and Genentech led shares of biotechnology companies higher yesterday after studies showed the medicines they are developing helped cancer patients .
The outbreak was especially intense in Colorado , where within the past month more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died .
The outbreak was particularly intense in Colorado , where more than 6,300 people have been infected and at least six have died in the past month .
Oh yeah , Miami , Boston College and Syracuse leaving the Big East to take a seat in the Atlantic Coast Conference .
Boston College , Miami and Syracuse are considering leaving the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference by the end of the month .
In March 2002 , 63 percent of home broadband users connected via cable modem ; 34 percent used a DSL service .
In the earlier survey , 63 percent of home broadband users had cable modems , compared with 34 percent who connected with DSL technology .
For the full 12-month period , high-speed cable modem connections increased by 49 percent .
For the full year period ending June 30 , 2003 , high-speed lines increased by 45 percent .
He also drove in a run on a groundout against Franklin in the fifth .
He drove in another run in the fifth inning on a groundout .
Third-quarter revenue declined to $ 36.9 billion from $ 39.3 billion , primarily reflecting lower vehicle sales .
Revenue fell to $ 36.9bn from $ 39.3bn a year ago , mainly due to lower vehicle sales .
Sean Harrigan of Calpers , the California fund , said : " Today we are trying to pull the pig from the trough .
" Today we are trying to pull the pig away from the trough , " Mr. Harrigan said .
On a planet that takes nearly 165 years to orbit the sun , spring can last more than 40 years .
Because it takes Neptune 165 years to orbit the Sun its seasons will last for decades .
The two powerful men also disagree about ethanol ( sacred in Iowa ) and authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaska 's wildlife refuge .
They also disagree over ethanol - sacred in Iowa - and on authorizing oil and gas drilling in Alaskas wildlife refuge .
The number of passengers aboard was not known and may never be , since ferry operators rarely keep full passenger lists .
The exact number of passengers on the ferry was not known and may never be determined because ferry operators typically do not keep accurate passenger manifests .
Medical experts said the condition was mildly worrying but easily-manageable .
Medical experts said Blair 's problem was worrying but relatively common and easily manageable .
Singapore is already the United States ' 12th-largest trading partner , with two-way trade totaling more than $ 34 billion .
Although a small city-state , Singapore is the 12th-largest trading partner of the United States , with trade volume of $ 33.4 billion last year .
The greenback scored beefy gains against the euro , yen and Swiss franc despite weaker-than-expected September U.S. retail sales figures .
The dollar gained against the euro , yen and Swiss franc after September U.S. retail sales figures came in slightly weaker than consensus forecasts .
" If the voluntary reliability standards were complied with , we wouldn 't have had a problem . "
" If the voluntary reliability standards had been complied with , we wouldn 't have had a problem , " Mr. Dhaliwal said .
A tradition of Labor Day racing was established long ago in the Inland Empire .
There is a tradition of Labor Day racing in the Inland Valley .
The yield on the 3 5 / 8 percent February 2013 note dropped 2 basis points to 3.66 percent .
The yield on the 3 percent note maturing in 2008 fell 22 basis points to 2.61 percent .
In Las Vegas , agents entered two clubs — Cheetah 's and Jaguars — along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar and pool hall in downtown Las Vegas .
In Las Vegas , federal agents stormed two clubs - Cheetah 's and Jaguars - along with Galardi Enterprises , an office atop a bar in downtown .
Market research firm Dell 'Oro Group estimates this market will total $ 12 billion in 2004 .
Market research firm Dell 'Oro Group estimates that the Gigabit Ethernet switch market will total about US $ 12 billion in 2004 .
Also demonstrating box-office strength _ and getting seven Tony nominations _ was a potent revival of Eugene O 'Neill 's family drama , " Long Day 's Journey Into Night . "
Also demonstrating box-office strength -- and getting seven Tony nominations -- was a potent revival of Eugene ONeills family drama , Long Days Journey Into Night . "
Former U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey , 64 , died this afternoon in his home after a long battle with bladder cancer .
McCloskey died Sunday afternoon in his home after a year-long battle with bladder cancer .
An 18-month run for it in Toronto was originally planned as part of a North American tour .
When we opened here , we originally planned an 18-month run as a part of a North American tour .
Since March 11 , when the market 's major indices were at their lowest levels since hitting multi-year lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 per cent .
Since March 11 , when the markets major indexes were at their lowest levels since hitting multiyear lows in October , the tech-laden Nasdaq has climbed nearly 20 percent .
About 120 potential jurors were being asked to complete a lengthy questionnaire .
The jurors were taken into the courtroom in groups of 40 and asked to fill out a questionnaire .
" The lives of American warfighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components , " said Defense Department Inspector General Joseph Schmitz .
" The lives of American war-fighters can be placed at direct risk through illegal transfer of military components , " Joseph Schmitz , Defence Department inspector general , said .
He later learned that the incident was caused by the Concorde 's sonic boom .
He later found out the alarming incident had been caused by Concorde 's powerful sonic boom .
The next court session will be when the three-judge tribunal announces its verdict in mid-February .
The court 's three-judge tribunal was expected to give its verdict next February .
They also are reshaping the retail business relationship elsewhere , as companies take away ideas and practices that change how they do business in their own firms and with others .
They also are reshaping the retail-business relationship , as companies take away concepts and practices that change how they do business internally and with others .
Along with chip.m.aker Intel , the companies include Sony Corp. , Microsoft Corp. , Hewlett-Packard Co . , International Business Machines Corp. , Gateway Inc . , Nokia Corp. and others .
Along with chip maker Intel , the companies include Sony , Microsoft , Hewlett-Packard , International Business Machines , Gateway , Nokia and others .
" Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , " Jon Sohn of Friends of the Earth said after the panel 's vote .
" Two Ex-Im board members displayed courage and environmental leadership in the face of considerable pressure , " said Jon Sohn , international campaigner for Friends of the Earth .
The decades-long conflict has killed more than 10,000 people in the resource-rich province , most of them civilians .
More than 10,000 people , most of them civilians , have been killed in three decades of insurgency .
Thomas was joined in full by Rehnquist , and in parts by O 'Connor and Scalia .
He was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O 'Connor and Antonin Scalia .
Werdegar also said Intel 's servers weren 't harmed by the computer messages and the thousands of recipients were able to request that the E-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
She also noted that Intel 's servers were not harmed and that the thousands of Hamidi e-mail recipients were able to request that the e-mails stop , which Hamidi honored .
Tom Kasmer , a 14-year-old from Belmont , N.C. , got a word that sounded like " zistee " during yesterday 's competition .
The 14-year-old national spelling finalist who attends school in Belmont , N.C. , got a word that sounded like " zistee " during competition Wednesday .
" This blackout was largely preventable , " said Spencer Abraham , US energy secretary .
" This blackout was largely preventable , " Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said at a press conference this afternoon .
After 9 / 11 , Connolly said , agents spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi .
Connolly said FBI agents in San Diego and abroad spent thousands of hours investigating al-Bayoumi .
The single currency rose as far as 135.13 yen , matching a record high hit shortly after the euro 's launch in January 1999 .
The single currency rose as far as 135.26 yen , its highest level since the introduction of the single currency in January 1999 .
Some Boston managers are concerned that banning smoking will create safety hazards as groups of smokers huddle outside bars and nightclubs .
Some Boston bar managers said they worry that banning smoking will create a hazard as groups of smokers huddle outside on sidewalks and in parking lots to smoke .
The federal government is approving new pesticides without basic information such as whether they harm children , says Canada 's environment commissioner .
The federal government is approving new pesticides without even knowing whether they pose a threat to children , Canada 's environment watchdog warned yesterday .
" We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight over a Supreme Court appointment .
" We believe that it is not necessary to have a divisive confirmation fight , " Daschle of South Dakota wrote the Republican president .
Between 1993 and 2002 , 142 allegations of sexual assault were reported .
From 1993 to 2002 , there were 142 reported sexual assaults at the academy .
However , official statistics published this week showed a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
The ONS this week reported a surprise 0.6 per cent fall in manufacturing output in August .
Even when the exchange detected violations , it often failed to take disciplinary action , the SEC said .
Even when the exchange detected such violations , it " often failed to take appropriate disciplinary actions " against individuals or firms .
The Saudi newspaper Okaz reported Monday that suspects who escaped Saturday 's raid fled in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca Sunday afternoon .
The newspaper Okaz reported that the six suspects arrested Sunday fled the raid in a car that broke down on the outskirts of Mecca .
" That doesn 't mean to say it doesn 't exist , " said Mr. Chandler , but simply that his team hasn 't uncovered evidence indicating such a link .
" That doesn 't mean to say it doesn 't exist , " Mr. Chandler said , but simply that his team has found no such evidence .
Sylvan Shalom , the Israeli Foreign Minister , said there was a possibility that Mr Bush “ will come to this area ” .
Shalom said there was also a possibility that " the president will come to this area . "
The memorandum analyzed lawful activities , such as recruiting demonstrators , and illegal activities , such as using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
The memo analyzed lawful activities like recruiting demonstrators , as well as illegal activities like using fake documentation to get into a secured site .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used by themselves or as extensions to the ControlCenter family of storage management applications .
SAN Architect and AutoAdvice can be used as stand-alone applications or as an extension to EMC 's ControlCenter applications .
A grassy field and asphalt island , topped with an ATM , sit where Orville Wright once developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
Orville Wright 's laboratory was once there - where he developed a split airplane wing , tinkered with cars and even built toys .
They also drafted a non-binding priorities list specifying that a quarter of it may be used to reduce planned 5 percent cuts in fees paid to health-care providers .
They also drafted a nonbinding priorities list specifying that one-quarter may be used to reduce planned cuts of 5 percent in fees paid to health care providers .
In fact , 10 million shares of the sale went to an unidentified charitable trust - which promptly sold them .
Turner said he transferred 10 million additional shares to a charitable trust , which also liquidated them .
Microsoft this week released a critical update to fix a bug with its newly released Office 2003 suite .
Microsoft has released a critical update for its newly released office suite , Office 2003 .
A hearing on the matter was held Thursday morning in Fulton County Superior Court , marking one of the early steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
A hearing Thursday morning before Judge Elizabeth Long in Fulton County Superior Court marked one of the first steps in deciding the case of Matthew Whitley .
President Bush called the blackout " a wake-up call " for Americans about the nation 's outdated power grid .
President George Bush called the blackout " a wake-up call " to modernise the nation 's power-sharing system .
" Everyone who has a cell phone wishes they had a better one , " Huang said .
They have a cell phone and everybody that has a cell phone wishes they had a better one . "
Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Andrew Cuomo have been married 13 years .
Andrew Cuomo and Kerry Kennedy were married 13 years .
In 1999 , Mauritania became only the third Arab League state to establish full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state .
It is one of only three states in the Arab League to hold full diplomatic relations with Israel .
" Germany is on the right path , " Mr. Schrder said , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and cuts in taxes .
" Germany is on the right path , " he added , specifying his government 's announced structural reform plan , known as Agenda 2010 , and tax cuts .
Even after he turned 94 , Lacy worked to change baseball .
Even into his 90s , Lacy worked to change the game of baseball .
At the very long end , the 30-year bond US30YT = RR slid a full point for a yield of 4.47 percent from 4.41 percent .
At the very long end , the 30-year bond US30YT = RR lost 2 / 32 for a yield of 4.41 percent .
" The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive , " Medina said in a statement .
In response , Medina issued the following statement : " The accusation that I misappropriated money from Jennifer Lopez is both untrue and offensive .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB intelligence service , the domestic successor to the Soviet KGB .
Shadrin said Khodorkovsky 's aircraft was approached by officers identifying themselves as members of the FSB domestic intelligence service .
It ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds for months over North Korea 's nuclear program and American demands that it cease .
The contact between the delegations ended a diplomatic drought between the two nations , at odds over the nuclear program and U.S. demands that it cease immediately .
Berry also married and divorced his second wife twice , most recently in 1991 .
Berry repeated that performance with his second wife , whom he married and divorced twice ( most recently in 1991 ) .
Since Perkins ' arrival at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , UConn has fielded six national championship teams in three sports - men 's and women 's basketball and men 's soccer .
Since Perkins arrived at UConn in 1990 from Maryland , the Huskies have fielded six national championship teams in three sports -- men 's basketball , women 's basketball and men 's soccer .
The FTC also said AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely rebates to consumers .
In a separate complaint , the FTC alleged that AOL and CompuServe failed to deliver timely $ 400 rebates to consumers .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action yesterday after they abandoned their night patrol to watch David Blaine .
Ten police officers were facing disciplinary action today after they abandoned their street patrol to go and watch the American illusionist David Blaine .
The news came as authorities in Taiwan quarantined hundreds at two major hospitals amid fears of a widespread epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome on the self-governing island .
The threat came as Taiwanese authorities quarantined hundreds at two hospitals amid fears of an epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome .
There are only 2,000 Roman Catholics living in Banja Luka now .
There are just a handful of Catholics left in Banja Luka .
Also , hospital efforts to start " fever clinics " in parking lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms are " moving along impressively , " Dr. Roth said .
Dr. Roth also said that hospital efforts to start " fever clinics " in parking-lot tents to keep infectious patients out of emergency rooms were " moving along impressively . "
Under Mexican law , bounty hunting is considered a form of kidnapping .
Bounty hunting is illegal in Mexico , and the bounty hunter was charged with kidnapping .
A second Indonesian , Imam Samudra , the so-called " field commander " of the bombings , was sentenced to death last month .
Imam Samudra , leader of the team that carried out the bombing , was sentenced to death last month .
For the weekend , the top 12 movies grossed $ 157.1 million , up 52 percent from the same weekend a year earlier .
The overall box office soared , with the top 12 movies grossing $ 157.1 million , up 52 percent from a year ago .
During the flight , engineers misjudged the extent of the damage , and even during that period they lamented that the liftoff photography was poor .
During the flight , engineers underestimated the extent of the damage , and even then lamented that the liftoff photography was so poor .
Frank Partnoy , a securities law professor at the University of San Diego , said the case suggested that Merrill 's oversight and control of its executives were inadequate .
Frank Partnoy , a securities-law professor at the University of San Diego School of Law , said the case suggests Merrill Lynch 's oversight and control of its executives was inadequate .
The S3C2440 CPU supports major operating systems including Microsoft Windows CE / Pocket PC , Palm OS , Symbian , and Linux .
It supports the Windows CE , Palm , Symbian , and Linux operating systems .
He also said he advised his grown-up children not to run up credit card debts .
Barclays chief executive Matt Barrett also said he had advised his children never to use credit cards .
With the exception of dancing , physical activity did not decrease the risk .
Dancing was the only physical activity associated with a lower risk of dementia .
Researchers found that people 65 and older who had fish once a week had a 60 % lower risk of Alzheimer 's than those who never or rarely ate fish .
Older people who eat fish at least once a week could cut their risk of Alzheimer 's by more than half , a study suggests .
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer people camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although many parking lots were crowded by early afternoon .
Mall operators and retailers reported fewer shoppers camping out for early-bird specials on Saturday morning , although parking lots were beginning to fill at some East Coast shopping centers .
Mr. Bush said he was taking the action in response to Hamas 's claim of responsibility for the bus bombing in Israel on Tuesday that killed 20 people .
Bush said in a statement that he ordered the U.S. Treasury Department to act following Tuesday 's suicide bombing attack in Jerusalem , which killed 20 people .
His protest led to a 47-hour standoff with police that caused huge traffic jams in downtown Washington and northern Virginia .
His protest triggered a 47-hour standoff with police that led to huge traffic jams as commuters backed up in downtown Washington and Northern Virginia .
In case the company does not turn in the reports before the end of May , it is likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
If the company did not turn in the results before the end of May , it was likely to be delisted , an SFC official said .
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times as hot as a blowtorch . "
A slit the size of one created in the test would let in a stream of gas three times hotter than a blowtorch .
The jump in tobacco shares was led by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.28 .
Shares of the cigarette makers jumped on the news , led by New York-based Altria , whose shares rose almost 10 percent to $ 38.30 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at £ 169.99 while the InfoPath XML ( Extensible Markup Language ) data gathering application is priced at £ 179.99 .
The OneNote note-taking tool is listed at $ 273 while the InfoPath XML data gathering application is priced at $ 289 .
The U.S. government and private technology experts warned Wednesday that hackers plan to attack thousands of Web sites Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated " contest " that could disrupt Internet traffic .
THE US government and private technology experts have warned that hackers plan to attack thousands of websites on Sunday in a loosely co-ordinated " contest " that could disrupt Internet traffic .
Joan B. Kroc , the billionaire widow of McDonald 's Corp. founder Ray Kroc , died Sunday after a brief bout with brain cancer .
Joan B. Kroc , the billionaire widow of McDonald 's founder Ray Kroc known for her philanthropy , died Sunday of brain cancer .
BOCHK chief executive Liu Jinbao was transferred abruptly to Beijing last month .
He was chief executive of BOCHK until he was suddenly recalled to Beijing last month .
He told The Sun newspaper that Mr. Hussein 's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum .
" Saddam 's daughters had British schools and hospitals in mind when they decided to ask for asylum -- especially the schools , " he told The Sun .
Gerry Kiely , a EU agriculture representative in Washington , said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is closing talks on agricultural reform .
The EU 's agriculture representative in Washington said EU ministers were invited but canceled because the union is wrapping up talks on agricultural reform .
Tampering with medicine has been so lucrative that many of those arrested lived in million-dollar homes .
Tampering with medicine apparently was so lucrative , investigators said , that many of the suspects lived in million-dollar homes .
The Lockheed Martin-built SIRTF is the last of NASA 's Hubble-class " Great Observatories . "
SIRTF is the last of NASA 's so-called Great Observatories .
" We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , " said Neal R. Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who led an association panel on enemy combatants .
" We must defend those whom we dislike or even despise , " said Neal Sonnett , a Miami lawyer who headed an ABA task force on enemy combatants .
Most of that - $ 51 billion - was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ 10 billion was for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
Most of that – $ US51 billion – was for American troops in Iraq , while another $ US10 billion was for US forces in Afghanistan .
" I think we made some mistakes with this exam , and it 's up to us to identify and correct them , " Mills said .
Mills yesterday admitted , " We made some mistakes with this exam and it 's up to us to identify and correct them .
Ruffner , 45 , doesn 't yet have an attorney in the murder charge , authorities said .
Ruffner , 45 , does not have a lawyer on the murder charge , authorities said .
Whether it works out , timewise , that I can march with all four ... we 'll see what happens , " he said .
Whether it works out timewise with all four , I don 't know but we will see what happens . "
The Republic of Korea was found to lead the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
Not surprisingly , broadband nation Korea leads the way in broadband penetration , with approximately 21 broadband subscribers for every 100 inhabitants .
Board Chancellor Robert Bennett declined to comment on personnel matters Tuesday , as did Mills .
Mr. Mills declined to comment yesterday , saying that he never discussed personnel matters .
That compares with earnings of $ 446 million , or 7 cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.3 billion in the same period a year ago .
That compares with a profit of $ 446 million , or seven cents per share , on revenue of $ 6.32 billion in the same period last year .
" This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes . "
" This puts telemarketers on notice that we will take all measures necessary to protect consumers who chose to be left alone in their homes , " FCC chairman Michael Powell said .
Predictions ranged from 16 cents a share to 27 cents a share , according to Thomson First Call .
Wall Street analysts had expected 22 cents a share , according to Thomson First Call .
Mr. Brendsel is expected to remain with the Freddie Mac Foundation .
Freddie expects Brendsel to continue serving as chair of the Freddie Mac Foundation .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , as it has on economies across the region , hammering consumer spending and leaving shops , restaurants and airports empty .
SARS has also taken a toll on Taiwan 's economy , hammering consumer spending , with shops , restaurants and airports empty while people stay at home .
The 2002 second quarter results don 't include figures from our friends at Compaq .
The year-ago numbers do not include figures from Compaq Computer .
Oracle shares were also higher , trading up 12 cents at $ 13.60 .
Shares of Redwood Shores-based Oracle rose 14 cents to $ 13.62 .
" Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their current offerings , " John C. McCarthy , Forrester Group director , said .
" Although some firms show BPO savings , vendors overstate their current offerings , " McCarthy said in a statement .
But while the prime minister 's trial judders to a halt , his co-defendants in the same case are not protected .
While he is now spared that threat , his co-defendants in the same case are not protected .
He said European governments " have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears .
" They have blocked all new bio-crops because of unfounded , unscientific fears , " Bush said .
Greenspan is head of the U.S. central bank , which sets U.S. interest rates .
Greenspan 's Federal Reserve , the U.S. central bank , decides interest rates in the world 's largest economy .
They did not nationalize them , " Manouchehr Takin , an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London , said .
They did not nationalize them , " said Manouchehr Takin of the Center for Global Energy Studies .
Amrozi accused his brother , whom he called " the witness " , of deliberately distorting his evidence .
Referring to him as only " the witness " , Amrozi accused his brother of deliberately distorting his evidence .
And " although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , " it said the prospects for British exports were " weaker than previously expected . "
" Although the preconditions for recovery remain in place , the prospect for external demand for UK output is weaker than previously expected . "
Sony 's portfolio gives subscribers a variety of personalized services including the ability to download and experience images , ring tones , music videos and other music entertainment services .
Sony Music 's portfolio of products and services currently enable carriers to offer subscribers the ability to download images , ring tones , music videos and other entertainment services .
Emmy and Golden Globe Award-winners James Brolin and Judy Davis star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in The Reagans .
James Brolin and Judy Davis play Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the CBS film .
American has laid off 6,500 of its Missouri employees since Dec. 31 , according to Driskill .
Since October 2001 , American has laid off 6,149 flight attendants , according to George Price , a union spokesman .
" It is symptomatic of the communication difficulties that often trouble the ECB , " said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
" It is reminiscent of the communication troubles that have dogged the ECB in the past , " said Ken Wattret of BNP Paribas .
He added that we are " not going to make progress if we don 't broaden the tent . "
He added Democrats are not going to make progress if we dont broaden the tent .
However , one subset of women — those on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy — appeared to show improvement in survival .
However , one subset of patients , women on hormonal treatment following chemotherapy , " appeared to show a favorable trend to improvement in survival . "
The merged company will keep the Interwoven name and be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
The new company will be named Interwoven and will be headquartered in Sunnyvale .
The G + J executive was testifying in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court where O 'Donnell and G + J are suing each other for breach of contract .
He spoke in Manhattan 's State Supreme Court , where O 'Donnell and G + J sued each other for breach of contract .
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said the incident resulted from " two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes . "
U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer said ``two staff members bringing in Halloween costumes ' ' were responsible .
The company has agreed terms on the purchase of the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
The company has reached agreement on the terms for buying the paper division of the Dutch office supplies group Buhrmann , the largest paper distributor in Europe .
But Gelinas says only six have been fully re-evaluated .
Ms. Gelinas said only 1.5 per cent of those have been fully re-evaluated .
This deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over , " Geer added .
" The deterioration of security compounds when nearly all computers rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over . "
On Thursday , Lee won a preliminary injunction in New York preventing Viacom from using the name " Spike TV . "
On Thursday , a New York City judge ordered Viacom to stop using the name Spike TV pending a trial .
The two forms account for about 30 percent of the approximately 7 million immigration benefits applications received annually , immigration officials said .
The two forms constitute 30 percent of the 7 million applications filed to the bureau each year .
Auditors acknowledged the auditors did not look at priests ' personnel files .
The auditors , for example , did not have access to church personnel files .
The broad Standard & Poor 's 500 Index .SPX was up 8.79 points , or 0.96 percent , at 929.06 .
The Standard & Poor 's 500 Index gained 10.89 , or 1.2 percent , to 931.12 as of 12 : 01 p.m. in New York .
Police searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday , and prosecutors had sought to interrogate him that day only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
Magistrates searched Tanzi 's home near Parma on Wednesday and tried to question him the same day , only to find he had left Italy for an undisclosed foreign country .
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys who are out there competing with you . "
You have to dig deep and come up with the goods against guys that are out there competing with the best of us .
An international warrant for his arrest was issued both to the Ghanaian authorities and to Interpol .
A warrant for Taylor 's arrest has been served on the Ghanaian authorities and sent to Interpol .
He admits he occasionally lived the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living fast and loose .
Schwarzenegger has admitted to occasionally living the life of a playboy : smoking pot , chasing women and living fast and loose .
But Amrozi did not reveal and was not asked the company 's or his boss 's name .
Amrozi did not reveal , and was not asked , the identity of his boss .
The WWF also thinks a further 13,000 animals are being caught every year around the Straits of Gibraltar and in nearby areas .
According to WWF , a further 13,000 individuals are estimated to be caught around the Straits of Gibraltar and in neighboring zones .
" It still remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short-lived or long-lived , " Mr. Sprayregen said .
" It remains to be seen whether the revenue recovery will be short- or long-lived , " said James Sprayregen , UAL bankruptcy attorney , in court .
Now , nearly two years later , Mallard prepares for trial on charges of murder and tampering with evidence .
Chante Jawaon Mallard , 27 , is charged with murder and tampering with evidence .
In interviews with engineers , most of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers are evident .
In interviews with numerous engineers , most of whom have not spoken publicly until now , the lines of discord between NASA 's engineers and managers stand out in stark relief .
The news comes after Drax 's American owner , AES Corp. AES.N , last week walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its restructuring offer .
Last week its American owners , AES Corp , walked away from the plant after banks and bondholders refused to accept its financial restructuring offer .
Vaccine makers have been thrust in the limelight following government programmes to encourage wider vaccination and fears of biological attacks on civilian and military targets .
Vaccine makers have been thrust into the limelight as government programs encourage wider vaccination amid fears of biological attacks .
Intel Corp. unveiled Wednesday its next generation processor for cellular phones , personal digital assistants and other wireless devices .
Intel on Wednesday unveiled its next-generation processor for cell phones , PDAs , and other wireless devices .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning that they have barely enough time to organize the election before the balloting is scheduled to begin .
The decision unnerved voting officials who already have been warning they have barely enough time to organize the election .
" Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chipset , " the company said in a statement .
Apple is working with Oxford Semiconductor and affected drive manufacturers to resolve this issue , which resides in the Oxford 922 chip-set . "
Before the blast , Wells told police he had been forced to rob the bank and asked police to help him remove the bomb .
Wells , 46 , said he was forced to rob the bank and asked police to help take the bomb off .
Pressed for details , Mr Warner said : " All six of them are dead , we were told by Harold and his group " .
" All six of them are dead , we were told by Harold and his group , " Warner said .
Video replays suggested the ball had hit the ground before making contact with Sangakkara 's foot .
Television replays , though , showed the ball had touched the ground before Sangakkara 's boot ( 262 for 4 ) .
A council of up to nine Iraqis probably will lead the countrys interim government through the coming months , the U.S. civil administrator said Monday .
A council of up to nine Iraqis will probably lead the country 's still unformed interim government through the coming months , the American civil administrator said Monday .
His daughter , Nina Axelrod , told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep , apparently of heart failure .
Axelrod died in his sleep of heart failure , said his daughter , Nina Axelrod .
But stocks have rallied sharply over the past 3-1 / 2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound later this year .
But stocks have roared higher in the past 3-1 / 2 months amid hopes for an economic rebound .
North American futures pointed to a sub-par start to trading on Tuesday , with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings .
North American stock markets got off to a slow start Tuesday , with investors ready to get their first taste of quarterly earnings .
Stony Brook University launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated a possible connection between electromagnetic fields and cancer .
The State University at Stony Brook launched the study in 1996 , after earlier studies indicated a possible connection .
The couple was granted an annulment in September 2001 and Joanie Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Joanie Harper and Brothers were granted an annulment in September 2001 , and Harper was given sole custody of Marques and Lyndsey , court records show .
Beckham will receive a yearly salary of $ 10 million plus bonuses , earning him about $ 220,000 a game .
Beckham will pocket a weekly salary of about $ 213,000 and earn $ 10 million a year , plus bonuses .
" We are declaring war on sexual harassment and sexual assault .
" We have declared war on sexual assault and sexual harassment , " Rosa said .
As a result , Nelson now faces up to 10 years ' jail instead of life .
The verdict means Nelson faces up to 10 years in prison rather than a possible life sentence .
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today . "
I would like to publicly thank Sir Alex Ferguson for making me the player I am today , Beckham said in the statement .
Bond also voiced his disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended this conference in Florida or last year 's in Texas .
Bond voiced disappointment that neither President Bush nor his brother attended the 2002 conference in Texas or the 2003 meeting in Florida .
It would not affect economic damages such as lost wages or hospital bills .
Economic damages , such as lost wages or medical costs , wouldn 't be capped under Bush 's plan .
As you know , East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past . "
" East Africa has been an area of terrorist threats and indeed terrorist attacks in the past , " said State Department spokesman Philip Reeker .
All of those governments have said their support will not waver , though public sentiment is rising against it .
The governments of those countries have said that despite rising public opposition , their support will not waver .
The 39-year-old Luster initially gave police a false name , but later revealed his true identity .
Barrera said Luster gave police a false name immediately after his arrest Wednesday but later revealed his true identity .
Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying launch will be between Oct. 10 and 17 and will carry two men .
The Web site of Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV quoted unnamed experts as saying it would happen between Oct. 10 and 17 and carry two men .
It would be cumbersome for restaurants that serve different meals each day , she said .
It would be especially cumbersome for restaurants that change their menus daily , she said .
Perry has since called two special legislative sessions to try force the redistricting plan through .
Since then , Texas Gov. Rick Perry has called two special sessions trying to push the measure through .
" Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now , " he said during a press briefing at the hospital .
" Both of these kids are in wonderful physical condition right now , " said Goodrich , also director of pediatric neurosurgery at the Children 's Hospital at Montefiore .
" I will pass on to him [ Mr. Cheney ] that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable supply of energy , " Mr. Klein said Sunday .
" I will pass on to him that Canada still remains a safe , secure and reliable supply of energy . "
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker , ' ' Sherry Studabaker told BBC television .
I called the number and the lady told me she was talking on the phone to Toby Studabaker . "
Investigations by the Air Force inspector general and the Defense Department also are under way .
The Air Force inspector general and the Pentagon also are investigating .
The proposal likely would result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats to Congress , instead of the state 's current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
The plan would likely result in the election of 22 Republicans and 10 Democrats from Texas , versus the current 17 Democrats and 15 Republicans , officials say .
Minister Saud al-Faisal visit was disclosed Monday by two administration officials who discussed it on condition of not being identified by name .
Minister Saud al-Faisal 's visit was disclosed by two administration officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
In March , Rowland 's former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty to accepting gold and cash in return for steering state contracts .
Lawrence E. Alibozek , his former deputy chief of staff , pleaded guilty to accepting cash and gold coins in exchange for influencing state contracts .
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , Republican of Tennessee , said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by the end of September .
The Senate majority leader , Bill Frist , R-Tenn . , said he hoped Congress would finish work on the legislation by late September .
" The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar to multi-party democracy and national conciliation . "
" The releases are the latest in a series of efforts by the government to move Myanmar closer to multiparty democracy and national reconciliation , " a government statement said .
" We have sent a message to the nation that this is a new Louisiana , " she told a victory party in New Orleans .
" We have sent a new message out to the nation — that this is a new Louisiana . "
Hoffa , 62 , vanished the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in Oakland County , about 25 miles north of Detroit .
Hoffa , 62 , vanished on the afternoon of July 30 , 1975 , from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb in Oakland County .
After all , China isn 't racing anyoneso there 's no great rush , " Clark said .
After all , China isn ’ t racing anyone … so there ’ s no great rush , ” Clark said .
Six months ago , the IMF and Argentina struck a bare-minimum $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal that expires in August .
But six months ago , the two sides managed to strike a $ 6.8-billion debt rollover deal , which expires in August .
D 'Cunha said , from a science standpoint , Toronto 's last case was April 19 , so the all-clear day was actually yesterday .
He said , from a science standpoint , the city 's last case was April 19 , so the all clear day was actually yesterday .
Ximian brings Novell unparalleled expertise , strengthening our ability to work with [ our ] customers and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . "
" Ximian brings Novell unparalleled Linux expertise . . . [ and strengthens ] our ability to work with and leverage open source initiatives more constructively . "
X2 took in $ 17.1 million for a total three-week take of $ 174 million .
Elsewhere in theaters this weekend , " X2 " earned $ 17.1 million to raise its three-week total to $ 174 million .
Even her request , decades later , to attend her father 's funeral on the island was denied .
Years later , Cuba refused permission for her to attend her father 's funeral .