[constitution sacrificed to the bandwidth gods] im glad i finally have heard exactly what the OTO is all about. i finally know that i can stop looking, content i the knowlege that im not interested. it's tough enough listening to all the religions who refer to themselves as "the One Truth". How can i possibly accept it from a magical order? "We have all the Answers and will give them to those who join us (and pay dues)?" Scary. Besides, answers are easy. Questions! now that's another story... rintaw
For me, it would be an obvious choice: Armed self-defence is clearly and strongly protected by the Colorado Constitution and the laws of the state. In the very clear-cut situation of your hypothetical, I wouldn't have anything to fear from the police (unless I had been publicly carrying the weapon concealed, something I'm not in the habit of doing... Even then, the worst I'd have to deal with was a class 2 misdemeanor.) Even if the situation were not so clear, and I might have to worry about arrest for manslaughter or homicide, it would still be safer to wait for the police. If I were to leave and try to avoid police involvement, I'd be committing several felonies and ruining my chances of claiming self-defence in court ("If it really was self-defence," the prosecuter would ask, "why did you run away and hide from the police?") In other states, however, this decision might not be so clear-cut: If someone in, say, Washington D.C. were to use a gun in self-defence he would _automatically_ be guilty of several felony violations of that city's gun control laws. Such a person's choices would be between certain conviction for a couple of felonies versus possible conviction for half a dozen.
AAAHHHH!!!!! Please someone tell me what I have done!!! My 40 Meg miniscribe (8450AT) has a big sticker on the side that says ***DO NOT ROTATE INTERRUPTER** ---> (big knob here) A big knob sticking off the side of the drive is pretty hard NOT to turn when removing the drive! I turned it. Now the drive won't spin up! Even with no data or controller cables plugged in.. just power... it won't spin up!! Please help! Thanks -- -Paul Carroll
Hello I have a question about the demo files for amipro v3 uploaded in cica. I downloaded it and tryied to install it. However, it didn't work. In addition, it altered or eliminated my NWRES2.dll file so that I had to reinstall my Norton Desktop again. Is there anything I have to know to install it or do I eventually have to ask Lotus to send a working model to me (I heard that they have it)? I just want to see its look and feel before buying it. Any pointer would be greatly appreciated. Thank you
Hello... Does anyone know of any C or C++ function libraries in the public domain that assist in parsing an AUTOCAD .dxf file? Please e-mail. Thanks, --
An excellent idea. While I don't know the full scope of the activities of the EFF, from what little I've seen I think it would be better to lobby for strong cryptography through a distinct organization. The EFF has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex and pictures newsgroups at various universities. Horror stories about the contents of those groups (e.g. exploitative pictures of possibly underaged models) have already surfaced in the press. The White House bulletin already raised the specter of drug-dealing and terrorism, which is only one step removed from the old "crypto-wielding child molester" argument. An EFF lobbying effort for cryptography would be too easily derailed by the connection to child pornography and the like. Similarly, LPF is connected with Stallman and his Gnu project. In light of, say, the Gnu Manifesto, this means that in a public debate it stands to be labelled as "communist", "anarchist hackers", radical, etc. I don't know about CPSR, but if it is an offshoot of Physicians for Social Responsibility (best known for Helen Caldicott and her hysterical antinuclear lobbying) then it probably also carries unwelcome political baggage. Perhaps for practical reasons a lobbying organization for cryptography would best be formed under the umbrella of EFF or some other existing group, but its charter should then be distinct, independent, and limited to advocacy for the right to cryptography. To reiterate Dan Bernstein's question: does any suitable organization exist? If not, what are you going to do about it? Having mentioned the possible dangers of unwelcome political associations, I would be remiss not to suggest something in the opposite direction: gathering the support of the NRA by emphasizing the RKBA side of the issue as well as the First-Amendment side.
First of all as far as I know, only male homosexuality is explicitly mentioned in the bibles, so you're off the hook there, I think. In any event, there are *plenty* of people in many denominations who do not consider a person's sexual identification of gay/lesbian/bisexual as an "immoral lifestyle choice" This is another misconception. You are not being told the whole story. My former minister is a lesbian, and I know personally and professionally several openly gay and lesbian ministers. I am a Unitarian-Universalist and like most others in my denomination, am pro-choice. You needn't go looking to the Unitarian Universalists (which is a liberal religion) for acceptance of your sexual identification and pro-choice views, however; there are many of us who believe in spirituality AND freedom of conscience. Good Luck on your journey!
I totally agree with that sentiment. But why do you have to go further and advocate violating what God has set up? That is the question which you have not answered from Scripture. You can worship on every day, as long as you work. But God says the Sabbath is all mine.
Assume in this case the usual canard-adversary of narcotraficantes. They probably have more cash than the KGB did, and they're probably more generous at handing it out. It will be easier than ever to find or cultivate Walkers and Pollards for the keys, and it will be easy enough to find someone to reverse-engineer the chip (unless the tamper proofing is damned clever and effective).
Define perfect then. Take your foot out of your mouth, I wondered about that already when I was a Catholic Christian. The fact that the contradiction is unresolvable is one of the reasons why I am an atheist. Believe me, I believed similar sentences for a long time. But that shows the power of religion and not anything about its claims. It follows from a definition of evil as ordinarily used. Letting evil happen or allowing evil to take place, in this place even causing evil, is another evil. The omniscient attribute of god will know what the creatures will do even before the omnipotent has created them. There is no choice left. All is known, the course of events is fixed. Not even for the omniscient itself, to extend an argument by James Tims. And when I am not omnipotent, how can I have free will? You have said something about choices and the scenario gives them. Therefore we have what you define as free will. Imagine the following. I can do good to other beings, but I cannot harm them. Easily implemented by making everyone appreciate being the object of good deeds, but don't make them long for them, so they can not feel the absence of good as evil. But whose case am I arguing? It is conceivable, so the omnipotent can do it. Or it would not be omnipotent. If you want logically consistent as well, you have to give up the pet idea of an omnipotent first. (Deletion) That the bible describes an omniscient and omnipotent god destroys the credibility of the bible, nothing less.
Did he ever really convert? He married a Jewish woman, but I've never heard him say he converted. Elliot Maddox, on the other hand... Yep, Holtzman. Saul Rogovin won an ERA title in 1949 or so before blowing out the arm. I'd be surprised. btw, they may just be shopping Gallego around to make room for AS.
Hi All, I have heard that somewhere there exist programmable keyboards, eg. one can program displays on the keys to show some specific characters, et.c. Does it mean that there is some way of transmitting some "non-trivial" data to the KB (as opposed to standard NumLock/... On-Off, typeamatic specs.) from inside the PC software? I have not found any corresponding reference in the specs for the 8042 PC-KB interface. Anyone have any ideas? (Except that they may encode data by the sequences of the standard commands mentioned above, which wouldn't look too neat, besides, what would one do from an XT?) Great thanks in advance,
One can feel physical pain by having a body, which, if you know the doctrine of the resurrection of the body, is what people will have after the great judgement. "We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come." - Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed. You will have both body and soul in hell - eventually.
Farewell, Minnesota fans. Get stuffed, Dallas Stars. As the North Stars fade to black, I hope that Minneapolis/St. Paul are not long without an NHL team. It just seems "right" that the hotbed of amateur hockey in the USA should have an NHL team as well. The loss of the team is certainly not the fault of the fans (though the start of the 1989-90 season made it look real bad for a while). I wish now that I kept the North Stars cap I bought at Maple Leaf Gardens the morning after they eliminated Montreal in 1980. (I got it to spite the Montreal fans in the small town where I grew up.) What a glorious season that was for the North Stars! dwarf
Last I had heard because of budget and such the Air Farce is the only "Space Command" left.. The rest missions were generally given to the Air Farce.. Probably a good reason for me to transfer from the Army Guard to the Air Guard.. I hate walking with a pack on my back, and how do you put on your application for a job as a kitchen worker, that you have done a lot of KP (Kitchen Police)..
And not only that, made a second clone from the same tissue sample after that of said domineering wife, to run at the helm of the more-pro-business party under guise of more free trade ... and she did inhale, many times, to boot ... (-; (-; (-; gld
: What are the Leafs to do? I am a Leaf supporter and : I say the Leafs are going down in four unless there : is nothing short of a miracle or a stroke of genenius hits Root for another team. ;-) : Andreychuck and Borchevsky have no business playing against : the Wings. They are too small. The key to any Leafs success : will have to be Clark. He is the only centre who can have .. Andreychuk, is NOT small, slow and sloth-like, maybe, but he is about 6'4" and that is not what I would consider as small. As an aside, The big AndreyCHUNK as I call him has been known to disappear come playoff time. This was one of his main problems when playing for Buffalo. : GO LEAFS !!! GO SABRES !!!
Boston 2 2 0--4 Ottawa 0 1 1--2 First period 1, Boston, Roberts 5 (Juneau) 7:19. 2, Boston, Wiemer 1(Juneau, Oates) 17:47. Second period 3, Boston, Neely 11 (Juneau, Murphy) 6:10. 4, Boston, Hughes 5 (Richer, Kimble) 7:55. 5, Ottawa, Archibald 9 (Rumble, Lamb) 11:37. Third period 6, Ottawa, Boschman 9 (Kudelski) 5:10. Boston: 4 Power play: 2-0 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Hughes 1 0 1 Juneau 0 3 3 Kimble 0 1 1 Murphy 0 1 1 Neely 1 0 1 Oates 0 1 1 Richer 0 1 1 Roberts 1 0 1 Wiemer 1 0 1 Ottawa: 2 Power play: 4-0 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Archibald 1 0 1 Boschman 1 0 1 Kudelski 0 1 1 Lamb 0 1 1 Rumble 0 1 1 ----------------------------------------- Washington 0 0 2--2 NY Rangers 0 0 0--0 First period No scoring. Second period No scoring. Third period 1, Washington, Bondra 36 (Pivonka, Cavallini) 6:54. 2, Washington, Bondra 37 (Cote, Pivonka) 10:10. Washington: 2 Power play: 2-0 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Bondra 2 0 2 Cavallini 0 1 1 Cote 0 1 1 Pivonka 0 2 2 NY Rangers: 0 Power play: 1-0 No scoring ----------------------------------------- NY Islanders 2 1 1 0--4 Hartford 2 1 1 1--5 First period 1, NY Islanders, Ferraro 13 (Malakhov, King) 1:29. 2, NY Islanders, Hogue 32 (Thomas, Turgeon) 1:57. 3, Hartford, Yake 21(Poulin) 4:15. 4, Hartford, Yake 22 (Nylander, Poulin) 16:44. Second period 5, Hartford, Verbeek 39 (Cassels, Weinrich) pp, 2:43. 6, NY Islanders, Thomas 35 (King, Ferraro) 7:58. Third period 7, Hartford, Burt 5 (Sanderson, Cassels) 13:41. 8, NY Islanders, Malakhov 14 (Hogue) 17:45. Overtime 9, Hartford, Janssens 12 (Poulin) 1:08. Hartford: 5 Power play: 3-1 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Burt 1 0 1 Cassels 0 2 2 Janssens 1 0 1 Nylander 0 1 1 Poulin 0 3 3 Sanderson 0 1 1 Verbeek 1 0 1 Weinrich 0 1 1 Yake 2 0 2 NY Islanders: 4 Power play: 3-0 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Ferraro 1 1 2 Hogue 1 1 2 King 0 2 2 Malakhov 1 1 2 Thomas 1 1 2 Turgeon 0 1 1 ----------------------------------------- Pittsburgh 2 3 1 0--6 New Jersey 2 4 0 0--6 First period 1, Pittsburgh, Daniels 5 (Needham, Tippett) 4:14. 2, New Jersey, Lemieux 29 (Semak, Driver) 10:19. 3, Pittsburgh, Stevens 55(Tocchet, Murphy) pp, 12:40. 4, New Jersey, Zelepukin 22 (Driver, Niedermayer) 17:26. Second period 5, Pittsburgh, Lemieux 68 (Stevens, Tocchet) 1:42. 6, New Jersey, Semak 36 (Lemieux, Zelepukin) 2:27. 7, Pittsburgh, McEachern 28 (Jagr, Barrasso) 4:24. 8, New Jersey, Stevens 12 (Guerin, Pellerin) 5:45. 9, Pittsburgh, Lemieux 69 (unassisted) sh, 12:40. 10, New Jersey, Richer 37 (Nicholls) 15:53. 11, New Jersey, Lemieux 30 (Semak, Zelepukin) 17:40. Third period 12, Pittsburgh, Mullen 33 (Jagr, Lemieux) 18:54. Overtime No scoring. Pittsburgh: 6 Power play: 5-1 Special goals: pp: 1 sh: 1 Total: 2 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Barrasso 0 1 1 Daniels 1 0 1 Jagr 0 2 2 Lemieux 2 1 3 McEachern 1 0 1 Mullen 1 0 1 Murphy 0 1 1 Needham 0 1 1 Stevens 1 1 2 Tippett 0 1 1 Tocchet 0 2 2 New Jersey: 6 Power play: 3-0 Scorer G A Pts --------------- --- --- --- Driver 0 2 2 Guerin 0 1 1 Lemieux 2 1 3 Nicholls 0 1 1 Niedermayer 0 1 1 Pellerin 0 1 1 Richer 1 0 1 Semak 1 2 3 Stevens 1 0 1 Zelepukin 1 2 3
: For all the problems technology has caused, your types have made : things even worse. Must we be reminded of the Inquisition, Operation : Rescue, the Ku Klux Klan, Posse Comitatus, the 700 Club, David Duke, Salem : Witch Trials, the Crusades, gay bashings, etc. : PLUS virtually each and every single war, regardless of the level of : technology, has had theistic organizations cheering on the carnage : (chaplains, etc.), and claiming that god was in favor of the whole ordeal. : Don't forget to pray for our troops! : This is really tedious. Every bad thing that's ever happened is because the malefactors were under the influence of religion - does anyone -really- believe that. I've seen it so often it must be a pretty general opinion in a.a, but I want to believe that atheists are really not THAT dishonest. Please, stick to the facts and, having accomplished that, interpret them correctly.
Does anyone know of bigger raster fonts? I'm using a Mag 15H monitor with a Diamond SS24X in 1280x1024 mode and would prefer to have larger characters for the windows heading (practically for everything). I'm already using the 8514 character sets. mark
Actually, they won't. What they'll tell you is that if you add up the number of suicides, murders of one drug dealer by another, legit self-defenses of a battered spouse, and so on, you'll end up with a number that is much larger than the number of self-defense killings against strangers committed in the bedroom. (BTW - they didn't honestly count the latter either, but let's not quibble.) They try to claim that comparison is between the costs of self-defense and the benefits, but they're wrong. This comparison doesn't measure the costs of self-defense and it doesn't measure the benefits either. For example, the goal is not to kill the attacker, whatever your relationship to him, but to stop him. While the number of killings may be proportional to the number of stops, it isn't equal. Anyone who confuses that comparison with an honest evaluation is either lying or.... -andy
All very true. I'm going on what I have read and heard from friends. Basically the Glock is great but I have heard/read that it is a lot harder to learn proper handling because of the type of safety that it has. I was looking at a Glock .40S&W and the S&W 4006 a couple of weeks ago and the safties on the guns were very different. The saftey on the 4006 seemed a lot more "safe" (for lack of a better word) than the one on the Glock. Of course this could also be a bad thing if you were to pull the gun on somebody. You would spend more time fiddling around turning the safety off. Personally I like the Glocks because they are very light and I think they look really cool (guess that's why they use them in so many movies) but I wouldn't get one as my first semi-auto because of the safety. I would prefer more training with a "traditional" semi-auto (ala Colt .45) but of course that's just my opinion.
Another dodge. Oh well. I'm no match for your amazing repertoire of red herrings and smoke screens. You asked for an apology. I'm not going to apologize for pointing out that your straw-man argument was a straw-man argument. Nor for saying that your list of "bible contradictions" shows such low standards of scholarship that it should be an embarrassment to anti-inerrantists, just as Josh McDowell should be an embarrassment to the fundies. Nor for objecting various times to your taking quotes out of context. Nor for pointing out that "they do it too" is not an excuse. Nor for calling your red herrings and smoke screens what they are. I'm still not sure why you think I'm a hypocrite. It's true that I haven't responded to any of Robert Weiss' articles, which may be due in part to the fact that I almost never read his articles. But I have responded to both you and Frank DeCenso (a fundie/inerrantist.) Both you and Frank have taken quotes out of context, and I've objected to both of you doing so. I've criticized bad arguments both when they were yours and I agreed with the conclusion (that the Bible is not inerrant), and when they were Frank's and I disagreed with the conclusion. I've criticized both you and Frank for evading questions, and for trying to "explain me away" without addressing the objections I raise (you by accusing me of being hypocritical and irrational, Frank by accusing me of being motivated by a desire to attack the Bible.) I don't see that any of this is hypocritical, nor do I apologize for it. I do apologize, however, for having offended you in any other way. Happy now?
John 12:24-26: "Most assuredly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls onto the ground and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it produces much grain. "He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. "If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there My servant will be also. If anyone serves Me, him My Father will honor." Why would I want an eternal life if I hate this one? If we were created by a deity, why would that deity not wish us to enjoy what he has given us? Why would I want to live forever? The challenge in my life is that I will die, and that I must give my life the meaning I wish it to have before that happens. My time is here and will someday pass; I will be content to live on in the memories of my friends, and once they too are dead, then I will no longer have any reason to exist. In short: even if your deity *does* exist, that doesn't automatically mean that I would worship it. I am content to live my own life, and fend for myself, so when I die, I can be proud of the fact that no matter where I end up, it will be because of *my* actions and *my* choices. If your god decides to toss me into a flaming pit for this, then so be it. I would much rather just cease to exist. But if your god wants my respect and my obedience, then it had better earn these; and if it does, then they will be very strong and true. Jesus wasn't the only one who rose from the dead -- I think it was Osiris who did the same, as well as a few characters from Greek or Norse legend, if memory serves. But still: WHY would I want to rise from the dead? Why do *you* want to? If your god wants to win my devotion, then it knows what it can do -- provide some way for me to believe without having to resort to blind faith that could be applied equally well to any religion. That's precisely it. I neither see nor know Zeus either, nor Odin. Shall I offer them the same devotion I offer Jesus? You've got to understand my point-of-view: I see Christians spouting Bible verse all the time as if it were some sort of magic spell that will level all opposition. Truth is, it's not. Robert has never demonstrated that he actually understands what the verses imply; he just rattles them off day by day. Some brazenly fly in the face of common sense and reality, and I point these out where I can. But even more than that, even when Christians *do* try to explain the verses in their own words, they do so from a Christian point of view, which is that every human being would want to be a Christian if only he or she understood the Christian message properly, and then all strife and suffering on the earth would end. Here's the problem with that: substitute "Moslem" or "Buddhist" or "Satanist" instead of "Christian", and it means the same thing. Christanity is a very nice belief set around a very nice book. But if you want to make me believe that it has any bearing on the REAL WORLD, you've got some convincing to do. And in my opinion, you're bumbling about blindly making up entities where there aren't any, and depriving yourself of a true understanding and enjoyment of your life. As long as you keep your beliefs to yourself, I'll keep my beliefs to myself -- but as soon as you start waving them around, expect me to toss in my opinions, too.
I would really appreciate if when someone brought something like this up they didn't back out when someone asked for details.
Sorry about not mentioning platform... my original post was to mac.programmer, and then decided to post here to comp.graphics. I'd like the 3D software to run on primarily Mac in either C, Object Pascal (Think or MPW). But, I'll port to Windows later, so a package that runs on Mac and has a Windows version would be ideal. I'm looking for a package that has low upfront costs, and reasonable licensing costs... of course :)
: There is a new version of the RTrace ray-tracing package (8.2.0) at : asterix.inescn.pt [192.35.246.17] in directory pub/RTrace. : Check the README file. cant seem to reach the site from over here:
The problem is that Motif uses XGrabKey to implement menu accelerators, and these grabs are specific about which modifiers apply. Unfortunately, the specification for XGrabKey doesn't allow AnyModifier to be combined with other modifiers, which is exactly what would be desired in this case: "Ctrl Any<Key>q". This is true for accelerators and mnemonics, which are implemented using event handlers instead of grabs; it's not true for menu accelerators. If you're a Motif implementor, I'd suggest lobbying to get the Xlib semantics changed to support the feature I described above. Otherwise, change the documentation for menu accelerators to properly set the user's expectations, because menu accelerators are NOT the same thing as translations. If you mean "menu accelerator", no it's not possible. That's according to the definition of the XmNaccelerator resource in the XmLabel manual page. I can't think of a reason why not. There is a workaround for Motif users. In addition to the normal menu accelerator you install on the XmPushButton[Gadget], set an XtNaccelerators resource on the shell (TopLevel or Application). Install the shell's accelerators on itself and all of its descendants with XtInstallAllAccelerators (shell, shell). For example, applicationShell - mainWindow - menuBar - fileCascade -- filePulldown - openPushbutton - exitPushbutton *openPushbutton.accelerator = Ctrl<Key>O *openPushbutton.acceleratorText = Ctrl+O *exitPushbutton.accelerator = Ctrl<Key>Q *exitPushbutton.acceleratorText = Ctrl+Q *applicationShell.accelerators = #override\n\ Ctrl<Key>O: PerformAction(*openPushbutton, ArmAndActivate)\n\ Ctrl<Key>Q: PerformAction(*exitPushbutton, ArmAndActivate) You have to write and add the application action PerformAction, which you can implement by using XtNameToWidget on the first argument and then XtCallActionProc with the rest of the arguments. I tested out something similar to this. To shorten development time, I used TeleUSE's TuNinstallAccelerators resource to install the accelerators on the shell, and I directly invoked the Open and Quit D actions instead of asking the pushbuttons to do it for me, but the more general approach I described above should work.
Gregg, so would you consider that Rushdie would now be left alone, and he could have a normal life? In other words, does Islam support the notion of forgiving? Cheers, Kent
As to what that headpiece is.... (by chort@crl.nmsu.edu) SOURCE: AP NEWSWIRE The Vatican, Home Of Genetic Misfits? Michael A. Gillow, noted geneticist, has revealed some unusual data after working undercover in the Vatican for the past 18 years. "The Popehat(tm) is actually an advanced bone spur.", reveals Gillow in his groundshaking report. Gillow, who had secretly studied the innermost workings of the Vatican since returning from Vietnam in a wheel chair, first approached the scientific community with his theory in the late 1950's. "The whole hat thing, that was just a cover up. The Vatican didn't want the Catholic Community(tm) to realize their leader was hefting nearly 8 kilograms of extraneous bone tissue on the top of his skull.", notes Gillow in his report. "There are whole laboratories in the Vatican that experiment with tissue transplants and bone marrow experiments. What started as a genetic fluke in the mid 1400's is now scientifically engineered and bred for. The whole bone transplant idea started in the mid sixties inspired by doctor Timothy Leary transplanting deer bone cells into small white rats." Gillow is quick to point out the assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II and the disappearance of Dr. Leary from the public eye. "When it becomes time to replace the pope", says Gillow, "The old pope and the replacement pope are locked in a padded chamber. They butt heads much like male yaks fighting for dominance of the herd. The victor emerges and has earned the privilege of inseminating the choir boys." P.
I usually use "Algorithms for graphics and image processing" by Theodosios Pavlidis, but other people here got them same idea and now 3 of 4 copies in the libraries have been stolen! Another reference is "Digital Image Processing" by Gonzalez and Wintz/Wood, which is widely available but a little expensive ($55 here- I just checked today).
Does the Proventil inhaler for asthma relief fall into the steroid or nonsteroid category? Looking at the product literature it's not clear.
Some time back I asked for software recommendations to allow me to run X from my PC at home to my Sparc at the office. Many thanks for all replies, the majority of people recommended PCXremote from NCD. I received it yesterday and installed it on my Sparc and PC with only one hitch. The UNIX install consists of copying 2 files into some local bin directory. On the PC side, I ordered the WINDOWS version which came with a slick windows installation. The only problem I had was that my .xinitrc in my home directory had the line DISPLAY=`hostname`:0.0; export DISPLAY s.t the clients I kicked off connected to my Xserver on the Sparc console. By removing this line from the .xinitrc everything worked as planned and the clients connected to the server at `hostname`:1.0 Some comments on performance, I was connected to a Sparc 2 thru a NetBlazer Terminal Server over a 9600 baud line. My PC is a 486-DX2 ATI Ultra, 16 MB Bitmap Stuff Sucked. Basic Editing and compilation stuff definitely usable. Xmail was very usable. At times the first time U typed in an Xclient window there was a very noticable delay, I put this down to brain damaged "WINDOWS should not be called a SCHEDULER", besides that this will become my remote work environment for a while. Has anybody tried the NON Windows version of the product, the sales person said they performed about the same, given the over head of WINDOWS I question this? many thanks for help to all who responded
Robert, you keep making references to "orthodox" belief, and saying things like "it is held that..." (cf. "Kermit" thread). On what exact body of theology are you drawing for what you call "orthodox?" Who is that "holds that" Luke meant what you said he meant? Whenever your personal interpretation of Biblical passages is challenged, your only response seems to be that one needs merely to "look at the Bible" in order to see the truth, but what of those who see Biblical things differently from you? Are we to simply assume that you are the only one who really understands it? Just curious,
Actually if 'a few minutes' translates into 6 hours, you have it right. BUT you (and I guess your single-source news agency CNN) failed to mention the Davidians pouring kerosene all over and lighting it in plain view. Well, small-scale Jim Jones type suicide with fire instead of kool-aid. Sorry, guy, you got it wrong. ATF was pumping tear gas into the compound. The Branch Davidians (going along with their apocolyptic faith) set their own compound on fire killing all but 9 or so. No children survived. Self-slaughter, anyway. I pity the children who were to young to be able to make a conscious choice. You are wrong. Thank goodness. I would suggest, however, that you take a deep breath, and wait 30 minutes or so before posting. Also make sure your facts are correct before making your allegations(sp.). You repeated wrong. There were 9. God help the Branch Davidians. NO DON'T!!!! THERE IS WAY TOO MUCH OF THIS CRAP BEING CROSSPOSTED ALL OVER CREATION AS IT IS!!!!!!
Um, surely you didn't intend to compare the '93 Reds with the 29 Philidelphia A's. The Yankees were finishing 2nd to a team that was as good as the 26-28 Yankees, while the Yankees had aged some from their peak years. Ruth and Gehrig couldn't play every position simultaneously. IMO, given the various ages of the Braves and Reds this season, that the Braves will be closer to their peak, while the Reds have slightly passed their peak. Also, if you're going to compare Braves and Yankees, a more appropriate comparison to the '93 Braves might be the '23 Yankees. After falling short two years in a row in exciting World Series, both teams won/will win the Series this year, despite the heroics of some old fart on the other team. (Casey Stengel/ Dave Winfield???) ------------------------------------------------------- Eric Roush fierkelab@ bchm.biochem.duke.edu "I am a Marxist, of the Groucho sort" Grafitti, Paris, 1968 TANSTAAFL! (although the Internet comes close.)
AY> In many recent advertisements I have seen both "486DX-50" and "486DX AY>based systems. Does the first really exists and does it imply that all AY>circuitry on the motherboard with it works at that speed, as opposite AY>latter, where only the internals of the CPU are working at 50MHz? AY> AY> Many thanx in advance! AY> AY>Andrew. Andrew, yes there is a DX and DX2 version of the 50MHz 486. If you are considering buying one or the other, definitely go for the DX with a nice size external cache! The performance is far greater. The DX2 only has the internal 8k cache to work with at 50MHz, while the DX has a potentially much larger cache to work at 50MHz with. Neither systems could actually run a program out of main memory, since DRAM is still too slow for that high of bus speed ( 60ns = 16.66MHz < 50MHz ). -rdd --- . WinQwk 2.0b#0 . Unregistered Evaluation Copy * KMail 2.95d W-NET HQ, hal9k.ann-arbor.mi.us, +1 313 663 4173 or 3959
(hudson) (me) /(hudson) /So. Why is someone elses will such a big deal if morality is all relative. I don't believe I ever said that morality was all relative. What I said was that I can make my mind up on my own, thank you, and that you don't have the right to tell others what to think. I think that you will find that in most moral systems, there is a respect for human life and the dignity of the person. It is all the stuff besides these points that forms the core of the disagreement between primitive moral absolutists like yourself and the rest of us. /(hudson) /Maybe (the insane lover of pain might reason) if other people experienced /enough pain, they might learn to enjoy it, too. Fine. There is still the clinical definition of crazy. And this also involves a violation of free will, because the insane lover of your little example would be inflicting pain on a non-willing subject. Try again. (hudson) (me) /(hudson) /You have to have some sort of premise about choice or self-awareness. No, you do not. I demonstrated to you the example of the football team which doesn't require premises about freedom of choice or sentience/self-awareness.
I'm not sure if this is the correct place to ask this question. If not, please forgive me and point me in the right direction. Does anybody know of a program that converts .GIF files to .BMP files and if so, where can I ftp it from? Any help would be greatly appreciated. Please respond via e-mail as I do not read this group very often.
It's the Unix Domain Socket (local connection) to your XServer. Try to rm it :)
Hi all, I would like to purchase CD-ROM drive. The specs I would like to have is: * Applicable to Kodak multisession Photo-CD * SCSI(2) Interface * Compatible with Adaptec-1542B * Does not need any caddies * Cheaper ( < $500 if possible) * Double Speeded I believe there are no drives satisfying all of the above condition, so I would like to know all of your opinion. The above conditions are sorted by my priority. I think NEC CDR74-1/84-1 is a little bit expensive, but it DOES satisfy almost all of the above conditions. The problem is that I do not know the compatibility with 1542B. Has someone succeeded to connect these NEC drives to 1542B? I have heard a rumor that NEC drive is incompatible with 1542B adapter. Any suggestions are greatly appreciated.
The yearly chest x-ray provides a minute amount of radiation. It is a drop in the bucket as far as increased risk is concerned. Who can tell you whether you can get out of it or not? No one here controls that. It may well be a matter of the law, in which case, write your legislator, but don't hold your breath. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Has anyone here dealt with Tangent? I'm looking at an 486 system they have that has an EISA backplane with a VESA slot for video. The SCSI contoller they use is made by Aorta. I've never heard of this brand. Can anyone comment on Tangent or the controller?
The media is beating the incident at Dodger Stadium on Wednesday to death, but I haven't seen anything in rsb yet. Gerald Perry of the Cardinals pinch hit in the eighth inning with two on and his club down by a run. He stroked a line drive into the right field corner. The ball cleared the three-foot high fence and went into the crowd. Darryl, racing over from right center, got to the spot in time to reach his glove up over the short fence, but he missed the ball. A fan sitting in the front row, wearing a mitt, reached up and caught the ball. Home run. Now I've seen the replay several times and I have concluded that Darryl missed the ball, and that the fan's glove was essentially behind Darryl's. Several Dodger fans with seats in the immediate vicinity have claimed that the fan unquestionably interfered with Strawberry. What cannot be disputed, however, is that the fan who caught the ball never took his eye off it; he was oblivious to where the fielder was playing. He was also quite exuberant as soon as he realized he had made the catch. That exuberance disappeared immediately, however, when Strawberry went into a tirade at the man. All reports indicate he used a lot of profanity and accused the man of interference, and therefore of costing the Dodgers a game. Shortly afterwards other fans hurled food and beverages toward the man who made the catch. Dodger Stadium officials started to remove him from the park, but then relented and just relocated him to another area. In an interview after the game, Lasorda blamed the fan for the loss. Strawberry also went into a tirade about how the fans are stupid and they don't care about winning. L.A. Times columnists similarly blasted the man who made the catch. Before each Dodger game the public address announcer makes a speech wherein he says that fans are welcome to the souvenirs of balls that are hit into the stands as long as they do not interfere with any that are in the field of play. Was the fan wrong? Should he have been more aware of the situation and acted to avoid any possibility of interference? Or was he human and just reacting? By the way, he is a season ticket holder and on his request the Dodgers have relocated his seats to another area of the Stadium where future interference is impossible. Others have questioned why Darryl should be so concerned with what the fan did when he has a grand total of 1 rbi through the first nine games. I question what he was doing in right center with a left-handed pull hitter up and the game on the line. Had he been closer to the play, he certainly would have had a much better chance of catching the ball. But I guess the big debate continues as to what are the responsibilities of the fan. -- The Beastmaster
I need to know the Pins to connect to make a loopback connector for a serial port so I can build one. The loopback connector is used to test the serial port. Thanks for any help.
This list is published every week in Baseball Weekly. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Brian Curran Mead Data Central brian@meaddata.com
McDonnell Douglas rolls out DC-X HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. -- On a picture-perfect Southern California day, McDonnell Douglas rolled out its DC-X rocket ship last Saturday. The company hopes this single-stage rocket technology demonstrator will be the first step towards a single-stage-to-orbit (SSTO) rocket ship. The white conical vehicle was scheduled to go to the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico this week. Flight tests will start in mid-June. Although there wasn't a cloud in the noonday sky, the forecast for SSTO research remains cloudy. The SDI Organization -- which paid $60 million for the DC-X -- can't itself afford to fund full development of a follow-on vehicle. To get the necessary hundreds of millions required for a sub-orbital DC-XA, SDIO is passing a tin cup among its sister government agencies. SDIO originally funded SSTO research as a way to cut the costs for orbital deployments of space-based sensors and weapns. However, recent changes in SDI's political marching orders and budget cuts have made SSTO less of a priority. Today, the agency is more interested in using DC-X as a step towards a low-cost, reusable sounding rocket. SDIO has already done 50 briefings to other government agencies, said Col. Simon "Pete" Worden, SDIO's deputy for technology. But Worden declined to say how much the agencies would have to pony up for the program. "I didn't make colonel by telling my contractors how much money I have available to spend," he quipped at a press conference at McDonnell Douglas Astronautics headquarters. While SDIO has lowered its sights on the program's orbital objective, agency officials hail the DC-X as an example of the "better, faster, cheaper" approach to hardware development. The agency believes this philosophy can produce breakthroughs that "leapfrog" ahead of evolutionary technology developments. Worden said the DC-X illustrates how a "build a little, test a little" approach can produce results on time and within budget. He said the program -- which went from concept to hardware in around 18 months -- showed how today's engineers could move beyond the "miracles of our parents' time." "The key is management," Worden said. "SDIO had a very light hand on this project. We had only one overworked major, Jess Sponable." Although the next phase may involve more agencies, Worden said lean management and a sense of government-industry partnership will be crucial. "It's essential we do not end up with a large management structure where the price goes up exponentially." SDIO's approach also won praise from two California members of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. "This is the direction we're going to have to go," said Rep. George Brown, the committee's Democratic chairman. "Programs that stretch aout 10 to 15 years aren't sustainable....NASA hasn't learned it yet. SDIO has." Rep. Dana Rohrbacher, Brown's Republican colleague, went further. Joking that "a shrimp is a fish designed by a NASA design team," Rohrbacher doubted that the program ever would have been completed if it were left to the civil space agency. Rohrbacher, whose Orange County district includes McDonnell Douglas, also criticized NASA-Air Force work on conventional, multi-staged rockets as placing new casings around old missile technology. "Let's not build fancy ammunition with capsules on top. Let's build a spaceship!" Although Rohrbacher praised SDIO's sponsorship, he said the private sector needs to take the lead in developing SSTO technology. McDonnell Douglas, which faces very uncertain prospects with its C-17 transport and Space Station Freedom programs, were more cautious about a large private secotro commitment. "On very large ventures, companies put in seed money," said Charles Ordahl, McDonnell Douglas' senior vice president for space systems. "You need strong government investments." While the government and industry continue to differ on funding for the DC-XA, they agree on continuing an incremental approach to development. Citing corporate history, they liken the process to Douglas Aircraft's DC aircraft. Just as two earlier aircraft paved the way for the DC-3 transport, a gradual evolution in single-stage rocketry could eventually lead to an orbital Delta Clipper (DC-1). Flight tests this summer at White Sands will "expand the envelope" of performance, with successive tests increasing speed and altitude. The first tests will reach 600 feet and demonstrate hovering, verticle take-off and landing. The second series will send the unmanned DC-X up to 5,000 feet. The third and final series will take the craft up to 20,000 feet. Maneuvers will become more complex on third phase. The final tests will include a "pitch-over" manever that rotates the vehicle back into a bottom-down configuration for a soft, four-legged landing. The flight test series will be supervised by Charles "Pete" Conrad, who performed similar maneuvers on the Apollo 12 moon landing. Now a McDonnell Douglas vice president, Conrad paised the vehicles aircraft-like approach to operations. Features include automated check-out and access panels for easy maintainance. If the program moves to the next stage, engine technology will become a key consideration. This engine would have more thrust than the Pratt & Whitney RL10A-5 engines used on the DC-X. Each motor uses liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen propellants to generate up to 14,760 pounds of thrust Based on the engine used in Centaur upper stages, the A-5 model has a thrust champer designed for sea level operation and three-to-on throttling capability. It also is designed for repeat firings and rapid turnaround. Worden said future single-stage rockets could employ tri-propellant engine technology developed in the former Soviet Union. The resulting engines could burn a dense hydrocarbon fuel at takeoff and then switch to liquid hydrogen at higher altitudes.
Someone posted a list of x number of alleged Bible contradictions. As Joslin said, most people do value quantity over quality. Dave Butler posted some good quality alleged contradictions that are taking a long time to properly exegete. If you want a good list (quantity) - _When Critics Ask, A Popular Handbook On Bible Difficulties_ by Dr. Norman Geisler deals with over 800 alleged contradictions. Frank
If you've got a secure device, you don't need public keys. If the secret key which all chips share is SK, you can just use KP = E{(myname, yourname, date) ; SK}. Maybe that's why Jim Bidzos was reported as being cheesed off.
In <lsran6INN14a@exodus.Eng.Sun.COM> emarsh@hernes-sun.Eng.Sun.COM (Eric Huh? Please explain. Is there a problem because I based my morality on something that COULD be wrong? Gosh, there's a heck of a lot of stuff that I believe that COULD be wrong, and that comes from sources that COULD be wrong. What do you base your belief on atheism on? Your knowledge and reasoning? COuldn't that be wrong? MAC -- **************************************************************** Michael A. Cobb "...and I won't raise taxes on the middle University of Illinois class to pay for my programs." Champaign-Urbana -Bill Clinton 3rd Debate cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu
DMorf (Dave's Morph, I think is what it means) and DTax (Dave's TGA Assembler) are available in the MSDOS_UPLOADS directory on the wuarchive. They are arjed and bundled with their respective xmemory versions, dmorfx.exe and dtax.exe, you can also find a version of aaplay.exe there, with which you can view files you create with dta.exe or dtax.exe. I downloaded the whole bunch last week and have been morphing away the afternoons since. The programmes are all a bit buggy and definitely not-ready-to-spread-to-the-masses, but they are very well written. The interface is frustrating at first, but it gets easy once you figure out the tricks. I have noticed that dmorfx will crash horribly if you try to morph without using the splines option. Not sure why, since I don't have the source. I think it was written for TP 6.0. If anyone else comes up with any other hints on getting the thing to work right, tell me; it took me several hours the first time just to figure out that if I just used the durned splines then it would work...
Vielen dank Desperate Fan
Agreed. We need more folks to admit they're bi. -- Michael D. Adams (starowl@a2i.rahul.net) Champaign, IL / southeast AL
Sometimes I have a problem with doctor's prescribing medicine like this. I of course don't know the exact situation, and anti-depressants may work, but it isn't helping the ringing at all, is it? Mine started about three years back. Turns out I have tinnitus bilateral (translation: ringing in both ears, basically ;). If this is what it is, she'll probably get used to it. It would keep me up and drive me nuts too, but nowadays, I have to plug both my ears with my fingers to check to see if they are ringing. Usually they are, but you get so used to it, it just gets tuned out. Yes, this is what I've read about it... not just from my own personal experience. Millions have it, according to my physician. You just learn to cope with it (like I mentioned earlier) by ignoring it. It eventually becomes unconscious. The doc also said it could be caused by diet (ie: too much caffeine) and stress, but I haven't changed my lifestyle much, and it just comes and goes (it is always there somewhat, but now I rarely notice it when it really "kicks in"). Also, it doesn't necessarily mean there is any hearing loss, either caused by it or causing it. I had an ENT (ear/nose/throat) exam, and passed. In fact, my hearing is quite good considering I don't take as good of care of my hearing as I should. Her reaction is normal. If it is tinnitus, chances are good she'll begin to not even notice it. This info is taken mostly from a few "experts", my own experience, and some readings (sorry, it was a few years back and don't have any specifics handy).
Sorry, but I saw a survey somewhere that showed that America's favorite team is the Damn Yankees. So much for the underdogs being loved.
[Note, Ohio legislation unlike Federal legislation, shows the entire law as it would be changed by the legislation. These parts are in ALL CAPITALS, the rest (i.e., current law is in regular type)]. AS INTRODUCED 120TH GENERAL ASEMBLY REGULAR SESSION H. B. NO. 278 1993-1994 REPRESENATIVE BEATTY A BILL To amend sections2923.11, 2923.17,and 2923.20 and to enact section 2923.181 of the Revised Code to expand the defintion of dangerous ordnance to include military weapons that do not use bolt action, to increase the penalty for a violation of the prohibition against possession of dangerous ordnance, to prohibit any person from acquiring a military weapon on or after the act's effective date, to require the licensure of military weapons acquired for aproper purpose prior to the act's effective dte, to prohibit a person from importing, manufacturing, or selling a military weapon, and to declare an emergency. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF OHIO: Section 1. That sections 2923.11, 2923.17 and 2923.20 be amended and section 2923.181 of the Revised Code be enacted to read as follows: Sec. 2923.11. As used in section 2923.11 to 2923.24 of the Revised Code: (A) "deadly weapon" means any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death, and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried, or used as a weapon. (B)(1) "firearm" means any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. "firarms" includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm which is inoperable but which can readily be rendered operable. (2) When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstancial evidence, including, but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual exercising control over the firearm. (C) "Handgun" means any firearm designed to be fired while held in one hand. (D) "Semi-automatic firearm" means any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a single cartridge and automatically chamber a suceeding cartridge ready to fire, with a single function of the trigger. (E) "Automatic firearm" means any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger. "Automatic firearm" also means any semi-automatic firearm designed or specially adapted to fire more than thirty-one cartridges without reloading, other than a firearm chambering only .22 caliber short, long, or long-rifle cartridges. (F) "Sawed-off firearm" means a shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen inches long, or a rifle with a barrel less than sixteen inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than twenty-six inches long overall. (G) "Zip-gun" means any of the following: (1) Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture; (2) Any device, including without limitation a starter's pistol, not designed as a firearm, but which is specially adapted for use as a firearm; (3) Any industrial tool, signalling device, or safety device, not designed as a firearm, but which as designed is capable of use as such A FIREARM, when possessed, carried, or used as a firearm. (H) "Explosive device" means any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. "Explosive device" includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel which has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode. (I) "Incendiary device" means any firebomb, and any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and consisting of an incendiary substance or agency and a means to ignite it. (J) "Ballistic knife" means a knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a spring-operated mechanism. (K) "Dangerous ordinance" means any of the following, except as provided in division (L) of this section: (1) Any automatic or sawed-off firearms. zip-gun, or ballistic knife; (2) Any explosive device or incendiary device; (3) Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate, liquid- oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions; (4) Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece grenade, mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon; (5) Any firearm muffler or silencer; (6) ANY MILITARY WEAPON; (7) ANY DETACHABLE MAGAZINE, MAGAZINE, DRUM, BELT, FEED STRIP, OR SIMILAR DEVICE THAT HAS A CAPACITY OF, OR THAT READILY CAN BE RESTORED OR CONVERTED TO ACCEPT, MORE THAN FIFTEEN ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION; (8) Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordinance. (L) "Dangerous ordnance" does not include any of the following: (1) Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, which employs a percussion cap or other obsolete ignition system or which is designed and safe for use only with black powder, and (2) Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting purposes, UNLESS THE FIREARM IS EITHER OF THE FOLLOWING; (a) A military weapon as issued or as modified, and the ammunition for that weapon; (b) AN automatic or sawed-off firearm. (3) Any cannon or other artilery piece which, regardless of its actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for use only with black powder; (4) Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (L) (3) of this section during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps possed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or small-arms ammunition; (5) Dangerous ordinance which is inoperable or inert and cannot readily be rendered operable or activated, and which is kept as a trophy, souvenir, curio, or museum piece. (6) Any device which is expressly excepted from the definition of a destructive device pursuant to the "Gun Control Act of 1968," 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act. (M) "MILITARY WEAPON' MEANS ANY OF THE FOLLOWING; (1) ANY FIREARM THAT ORIGINALLY WAS MANUFACTURED FOR MILITARY USE, OR A COPY OF ANY SUCH FIREARM, IF THE FIREARM IS NOT A BOLT ACTION FIREARM; (2) ANY MODEL OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING FIREARMS THAT IS A SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM AND IS A RIFLE OR ANY MODEL OF ANY COPY OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING FIREARMS THAT IS A SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM AND IS A RIFLE; (a) ARMALITE AR-180; (b) AUTO-ORDNANCE THOMPSON MODELS 1927A1 AND M-1; (c) AVTOMAT KALASHNIKOV; (d) POLY TECH AK-47S; (e) CHINA SPORTS AK-47 BULLPUP; (f) MITCHELL AK-47 AND M-76 (g) BARRETT LIGHT-FIFTY MODEL 82A1; (h) BARETTA AR-70; (i) BUSHMASTER AUTO RIFLE; (j) CALICO M900 AND M-100 (k) COLT AR-15 (l) COMMANDO ARMS CARBINE, MARK 111, MARK 45, AND MARK 9; (m) UNIVERSAL 5000 CARBINE, ENFORCER; (n) AMERICAN ARMS ARM-1 AND AKY 39; (o) DAEWOO MAX-1 AND MAX-2; (p) FABRIQUE NATIONALE FN/FAL, FN/LAR. AND FN/FNC; (q) FAMAS MAS 223; (r) FEATHER AT-9; (s) FEDERAL KC-900 AND XC-450 (t) GALIL AR AND ARM; (u) GONCZ HIGH-TECH CARBINE; (v) HECKLER AND KOCH HK-91, HK-93, HK-94, AND PSG-1; (w) MANDALL TAC-1 CARBINE (x) RUGER MINI 14/SF FOLDING STOCK MODEL; (y) SIG 57 AMT AND 500 SERIES; (z) SPRINGFIELD ARMORY SAR-48, G-3, BM-59 ALPINE, AND M1A CARBINE; (aa) STERLING MK-6 AND MARK 7; (bb) STEYR AUG; (cc) UZI CARBINE AND MINI-CARBINE; (dd) VALMET M-62S, M-76, M-78, AND M82 BULLPUP CARBINE; (ee) WEAVER ARMS NIGHTHAWK; (ff) MILITARY M14 AND MILITARY M1 CARBINE .30; (gg) SPRINGFIELD ARMORY M1A ASSAULT; (hh) THOMPSON 27A-5 WITH DRUM MAGAZINE; (ii) PLAINFIELD COMMANDO UNIVERSE 5000 CARBINE; (jj) COBRAY M-11 WITH OR WITHOUT SILENCER; (kk) SPECTRE AUTO CARBINE; (ll) SWD COBRAY; (mm) ARMI JAGER AP-74 AND AP-74 COMMANDO; (nn) ARMSCORP OF AMERICA ISRAELI FN-FAL; (oo) CLAYCO SKS CARBINE; (pp) DRAGUNOV SNIPER; (qq) EMF AP-74; (rr) IVER JOHNSON PM30 P PARATROOPER; (ss) NORINCO SKS; (tt) PARTISAN AVENGER; (uu) SIGARMS SG 550 SP AND SG 551 SP; (vv) SQUIRES BINGHAM M 16; (ww) WILKINSON "TERRY" CARBINE. (3) ANY MODEL OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING FIREARMS THAT IS A SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM AND IS A PISTOL OR ANY MODEL OF ANY COPY OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING FIREARMS THAT IS A SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM AND IS A PISTOL: (a) BUSHMASTER AUTO PISTOL; (b) CALICO 100-P AUTO PISTOL; (c) EBCIN NJ-IV, MP-9, AND MP-45; (d) FEATHER MINI-AT; (e) GONCZ HIGH TECH PISTOL' (f) HOLMES MP-83 AND MP-22; (g) INTRATEC TEC-9 AND SCORPION .22; (h) IVER JOHNSON ENFORCER; (i) INGRAM MAC-10 AND MAC-11; (j) MITCHELL ARMS SPECTRE AUTO; (k) SCARAB SKORPION; (l) STERLING MK-7; (m) UZI PISTOL; (n) UNIVERSAL ENFORCER; (o) WILKINSON "LINDA" AUTO PISTOL. (4) ANY MODEL OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING FIREARMS THAT IS A SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM AND IS A SHOTGUN OR ANY MODEL OF ANY COPY OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING FIREARMS THAT IS A SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM AND IS A SHOTGUN: (a) FRANCHI SPAS-12 AND LAW-12; (b) STRIKER 12 AND STREET SWEEPER; (c) BENELLI M1 SUPER 90; (d) MOSSBERG 500 BULLPUP; (e) USAS-12 AUTO SHOTGUN. Sec. 2923.17. (A)(1) No person shall knowingly acquire, have, OR carry any dangerous ordnance. (2) NO PERSON SHALL KNOWINGLY USE ANY DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. (B) This section does not apply to ANY OF THE FOLLOWING: (1) Officers, agents, or employees of this or any other state or the United States, members of the armed forces of the United States or the organized militia of this or any other state, and law enforcement officers, to the extent that any such person is authorized to acquire, have, carry, or use dangerous ordnance and is acting within the scope of his duties; (2) Importers, manufacturers, dealers, and users of explosives, having a license or user permit issued and in effect pursuant to the "Organized Crime Control Act of 1970," 84 Stat. 952, 18 U.S.C. 843, and any amendments or additions TO or reenactments OF THAT ACT, with respect to explosives and explosive devices lawfully acquired, possessed, carried, or used under the laws of this state and applicable federal law; (3) Importers, manufactuers, and dealers having a license to deal in destructive devices or their ammunition, issued and in effect pursuant to the "Gun Control Act of 1968," 82 Stat. 1213. 18 U.S.C. 923 and any amendments or additions TO or reenactments OF THAT ACT, with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried, or used under the laws of this state and applicable federal law; (4) Persons to whom surplus ordnance has been sold, loaned, or given by the secretary of the army pursuant to 70A Stat. 62 and 263, 10 U.S.C. 4684, 4685, 4686, and any amendments or additions TO or reenactments OF THAT ACT, with respect to dangerous ordnance when lawfully possessed and used for the purpose specified in THAT section; (5) Owners of dangerous ordnance registered in the national firearms registration and transfer record pursuant to the act of October 22, 1968, 82 Stat.1229, 26 U.S.C. 5841, and any amendments or additions TO or reenactments OF, and regulations issued UNDER THE ACT. (6) Carriers, warehousemen, and others engaged in the business of transporting or storing goods for hire, with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully transported or stored in the usual course of their business and in compliance with the laws of this state and applicable federal law; (7) The holders of a license or temporary permit issued and in effect pursuant to section 2923.18 of the Revised Code, with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried, or used for the purposes and in the manner specified in THE license or permit. (C) DIVISION (A)(1) OF THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO THE ACQUISITION, HAVING, OR CARRYING OF DANGEROUS ORDNANCE THAT IS A MILITARY WEAPON IF BOTH OF THE FOLLOWING APPLY: (1) THE PERSON WHO ACQUIRES, HAS, OR CARRIES THE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE IN QUESTION ACQUIRED IT BEFORE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS AMENDMENT AS A COLLECTOR'S ITEM OR FOR A LEGITIMATE RESEARCH, SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, INDUSTRIAL, OR OTHER PROPER PURPOSE; (2) NO LATER THAN THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON THE SEVENTH DAY AFTER THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS AMENDMENT, THE PERSON WHO ACQUIRED THE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE IN QUESTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH DIVISION (C)(1) OF THIS SECTION SUBMITTED AN APPLICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2923.181 OF THE REVISED CODE FOR A LICENSE TO HAVE AND CARRY IT AND THE APPLICATION HAS NOT BEEN DENIED OR A VALID LICENSE HAS BEEN ISSUED TO THE PERSON. (D) DIVISIONS (A)(1) AND (2) OF THIS SECTION DO NOT APPLY TO THE ACQUISITION, HAVING, CARRYING, OR USING OF ANY DANGEROUS ORDNANCE DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (k)(7) OF SECTION 2923.11 OF THE REVISED CODE THAT WAS ACQUIRED PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS AMENDMENT. (E) Whoever violates this section is quilty of unlawful possession of dangerous ordnance, a AN AGGRAVATED felony of the FIRST degree. Sec. 2923.181. (A) ANY PERSON WHO ACQUIRED A MILITARY WEAPON BEFORE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS SECTION SHALL FILE A WRITTEN APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE TO HAVE AND CARRY THE MILITARY WEAPON WITH THE SHERIFF OF THE COUNTY OR SAFETY DIRECTOR OR POLICE CHIEF OF THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION WHERE THE APPLICANT RESIDES OR HAS HIS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. THE APPLICATION SHALL BE FILED NO LATER THAN THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON THE SEVENTH DAY AFTER THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS SECTION AND SHALL BE ACCOMPANIED BY A FILING FEE OF FIFTY DOLLARS. THE PERSON SHALL FILE A SEPARATE APPLICATION AND PAY A SEPARATE FILING FEE FOR EACH MILITARY WEAPON THAT HE HAS OR INTENDS TO CARRY. THE APPLICATION SHALL CONTAIN ALL OF THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION: (1) THE NAME, AGE, ADDRESS, OCCUPATION, AND BUSINESS ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT, IF THE APPLICANT IS A NATURAL PERSON, OR THE NAME, ADDRESS, AND PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS OF THE APPLICANT, IF THE APPLICANT IS A CORPORATION; (2) A DESCRIPTION OF THE MILITARY WEAPON FOR WHICH A LICENSE IS REQUESTED, INCLUDING THE SERIAL NUMBER AND ALL IDENTIFICATION MARKS; (3) A STATEMENT OF THE PURPOSE FOR WHICH THE MILITARY WEAPON WAS ACQUIRED AND FOR WHICH IT IS TO BE POSSESSED, CARRIED, OR USED; (4) ANY OTHER INFORMATION THAT THE ISSUING AUTHORITY MAY REQUIRE IN GIVING EFFECT TO THIS SECTION; (5) THE OATH OF THE APPLICANT THAT THE INFORMATION ON THE APPLICATION IS TRUE. (B)(1) NO LATER THAN THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON THE FOURTEENTH DAY AFTER AN APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE TO HAVE AND CARRY A MILITARY WEAPON HAS BEEN FILED UNDER DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION, THE ISSUING AUTHORITY SHALL EITHER APPROVE THE APPLICATION AND ISSUE A LICENSE TO THE APPLICANT OR DENY THE APPLICATION AND SEND A LETTER OF DENIAL BY ORDINARY MAIL TO THE APPLICANT. AFTER CONDUCTING ANY NECESSARY INVESTIGATION, THE ISSUING AUTHORITY SHALL ISSUE A LICENSE TO AN APPLICANT WHOM IT DETERMINES SATISFIES THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA: (a) THE APPLICANT IS TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER, IF THE APPLICANT IS A NATURAL PERSON; (b) IT APPEARS THAT THE APPLICANT WILL POSSESS AND CARRY THE MILITARY WEAPON AS A COLLECTOR'S ITEM OR FOR A LEGITIMATE, SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, INDUSTRIAL, OR OTHER PROPER PURPOSE; (c) IT APPEARS THAT THE APPLICANT HAS SUFFICIENT COMPETENCE TO HAVE AND CARRY THE MILITARY WEAPON AND THAT PROPER PRECAUTIONS WILL BE TAKEN TO ENSURE THE SECURITY OF THE MILITARY WEAPON AND THE SAFETY OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY; (d) THE APPLICANT OTHERSWISE IS NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW FROM HAVING OR CARRYING DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. (2) A LICENSE ISSUED PURSUANT TO DIVISION (B)(1) OF THIS SECTION SHALL BE VALID FOR ONE YEAR AFTER THE DATE OF ITS ISSUANCE. THE LICENSE SHALL BE RENEWED PURSUANT TO DIVISION (C) OF THIS SECTION. (C)(1) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN DIVISION (C)(3) OF THIS SECTION, ANY PERSON WHO IS ISSUED A LICENSE UNDER DIVISION (B)(1) OF THIS SECTION SHALL RENEW THE LICENSE BY FILING AN APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL BY REGULAR MAIL WITH THE SHERIFF OF THE COUNTY OR THE SAFETY DIRECTOR OR POLICE CHIEF OF THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION WHO WAS THE ISSUING AUTHORITY OF THE LICENSE. AN APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL SHALL BE FILED ANNUALLY NO LATER THAN ONE YEAR AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH THE LICENSE WAS ISSUED OR LAST RENEWED. (2) EACH SHERIFF AND EACH SAFETY DIRECTOR AND PEACE OFFICER OF A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION SHALL MAKE AVAILABLE APPLICATIONS FOR THE RENEWAL OF A LICENSE ISSUED UNDER DIVISION (B)(1) OF THIS SECTION. IN THE APPLICATION THE APPLICANT, UNDER OATH, SHALL UPDATE THE INFORMATION SUBMITTED IN THE PREVIOUS APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE OR THE RENEWAL OF A LICENSE. THE APPLICATION FOR THE RENEWAL OF A LICENSE SHALL BE ACCOMPANIED BY A FEE OF FIVE DOLLARS. THE APPLICANT SHALL FILE A SEPERATE APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL AND PAY A SEPERATE RENEWAL FEE FOR EACH MILITARY WEAPON THAT HE INTENDS TO CONTINUE TO HAVE AND CARRY. (3) A PERSON WHO HAS CHANGED HIS RESIDENCE OR PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS TO A LOCATION OUTSIDE OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE ISSUING AUTHORITY SUBSEQUENT TO THE ISSUANCE OR RENEWAL OF A LICENSE UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL RENEW HIS LICENSE BY FILING AN APPLICATION IN THE MANNER PRESCRIBED BY DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION WITH THE SHERIFF OF THE COUNTY OR THE SAFETY DIRECTOR OR POLICE CHIEF OF THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION WHERE HE THEN RESIDES OR HAS HIS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. WHEN MAKING AN APPLICATION TO RENEW A LICENSE AFTER A CHANGE IN RESIDENCE OR PLACE OF BUSINESS, THE APPLICANT SHALL GIVE NOTICE OF THE CHANGE OF ADDRESS BY REGULAR MAIL TO THE ORIGINAL ISSUING AUTHORITY FOR THE LICENSE AND THE STATE FIRE MARSHALL ON NOTIFICATION FORMS PRESCRIBED BY THE SHERIFF, SAFETY DIRECTOR, OR POLICE CHIEF FROM WHOM HE SEEKS RENEWAL. (D) A LICENSE TO HAVE AND CARRY A MILITARY WEAPON SHALL IDENTIFY THE PERSON TO WHOM IT IS ISSUED, IDENTIFY THE MILITARY WEAPON FOR WHICH IT IS ISSUED, STATE THE PURPOSE IDENTIFIED IN DIVISION (B)(1)(b) OF THIS SECTION FOR WHICH THE MILITARY WEAPON WILL BE POSSESSED AND CARRIED, STATE ITS EXPIRATION DATE, AND LIST ALL RESTRICTIONS ON THE HAVING OR CARRYING OF THE MILITARY WEAPON AS PRESCRIBED BY THE LAWS OF THIS STATE AND APPLICABLE FEDERAL LAW. (E) ANY PERSON WHO IS ISSUED A LICENSE TO HAVE AND CARRY A MILITARY WEAPON UNDER THIS SECTION AND WHO CHANGES HIS ADDRESS SHALL NOTIFY THE ISSUING AUTHORITY OF THE CHANGE OF HIS ADDRESS NO LATER THAN NINETY DAYS AFTER THE CHANGE HAS OCCURRED. (F) THE ISSUING AUTHORITY SHALL FORWARD TO THE STATE FIRE MARSHALL A COPY OF EACH LICENSE ISSUED OR RENEWED UNDER THIS SECTION. THE STATE FIRE MARSHALL SHALL KEEP A PERMANENT FILE OF ALL LICENSES ISSUED OR RENEWED UNDER THIS SECTION. (G) THE ISSUING AUTHORITY SHALL CAUSE EACH APPLICATION FEE OF FIFTY DOLLARS, FILED UNDER DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION, TO BE DEPOSITED IN THE GENERAL FUND OF THE COUNTY OR MUNCIPAL CORPORATION SERVED BY THE ISSUING AUTHORITY. THE ISSUING AUTHORITY SHALL CAUSE TWO DOLLARS AND FIFTY CENTS OF EACH RENEWAL FEE, FILED UNDER DIVISION (C) OF THIS SECTION, TO BE DEPOSITED IN THE GENERAL FUND OF THE COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION SERVED BY THE ISSUING AUTHORITY AND SHALL SEND TWO DOLLARS AND FIFTY CENTS OF EACH RENEWAL FEE TO THE TREASURER OF STATE FOR DEPOSIT IN THE STATE TREASURY TO THE CREDIT OF THE GENERAL REVENUE FUND. (H) WHOEVER VIOLATES DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION IS GUILTY OF FAILING TO APPLY FOR THE LICENSURE OF A MILITARY WEAPON, A FELONY OF THE FOURTH DEGREE. WHOEVER VIOLATES DIVISION (C) OF THIS SECTION IS GUILTY OF FAILING TO APPLY FOR RENEWAL OF A LICENSE FOR A MILITARY WEAPON, A MISDEMEANOR OF THE FIRST DEGREE. (I) A MILITARY WEAPON THAT IS NOT LICENSED AS REQUIRED BY THIS SECTION IS CONTRABAND, AS DEFINED IN SECTION 2901.01 OF THE REVISED CODE AND IS SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE UNDER SECTION 2933.43 OF THE REVISED CODE. SEC. 2933.20. (A) No person shall DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING: (1) IMPORT, MANUFACTURE, POSSESS FOR SALE, SELL, OR FURNISH TO ANY PERSON ANY MILITARY WEAPON; (2) Recklessly sell, lend, give, or furnish any firearm to any person prohibited by section 2923.13 or 2923.15 of the Revised Code from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell, lend, give, or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by section 2923.13, 2923.15, or 2923.17 of the Revised Code from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance; (3) Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose of it in violation of division (A) of this section; (4) Manufacture, possess for sale, sell, or furnish to any person other than a law enforcement agency for authorized use in police work, any brass knuckles, cestus, billy, blackjack, sandbag, switchblade knife, springblade knife, gravity knife, or similar weapon; (5) When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently fail to require the transferes to exhibit ANY identification, license, or permit showing him to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant to section 2923.17 of the Revised Code, or negligently fail to take a complete record of the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of THE record to the sheriff of the county or safety director or police chief of the municipality where the transaction takes place; (6) Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in such person's possession or under his control. (b) Whoever violates this section is quilty of unlawful transactions in weapons. Violation of division (A)(1) OF THIS SECTION IS AN AGGRAVATED FELONY OF THE FIRST DEGREE. VIOLATION OF DIVISION (A)(2) OR (3) Oof this section is a felony of the third degree. Violation of division (A) (4) OR (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Violation of division (6) of this section is a midemeanor of the fourth degree. Section 2. That existing section 2923.11, 2923.17 and 2923.20 of the Revised Code are hereby repealed. Section 3. This act is hereby declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, and safety. The reason for this necessity is that with immediate action, this act will prohibit the continued purchase, possession, and use of military weapons and as a result will ameliorate a substantial threat of death and injury to the public caused by the misuse of improper use of these weapons. Therefore, this act shall go into immediate effect.
What ways are there to hook up to an appletalk network to use an Apple LaserWriter? Is there a way I can use an AppleShare File Server also? The less memory used the better. Thanks. Any help greatly appreciated.
You might want to clarify the 11 game winning streak. That Pens streak is a PLAYOFF streak (tied by the Chicago Blackhawks, who had won 11 in a row until they met the Pens in the finals last year) The 18 game unbeaten, so far, is a regular season unbeaten streak. But hey, don't take it personally. I'm a Flyers fan and two in a row is a stretch. But with a healthy Lindros, Recchi, Brind'amour and Tommy Soderstrom, they'll be there next year! By the way, since the Flyers need defenseman, what kind of trade would anybody suggest from the existing Flyers roster since the scuttlebutt is that Terry Carkner won't be there next year and apart from him a piece of notebook paper would be better defense.
Why? If you're not a threat, you're not affected at all. Why? I note that the available psych info says that feelings of security INCREASE. The victimization stats say that that increase is rational. Yes, they are, but how? Nope - that doesn't happen. Instead the switch (among those who change behaviors) to property crimes. That's an improvement even if the economic take is unchanged. Sure - not everyone switches, but they were killing before. -andy
.................... This example is probably wrong. There is the case of one famous physicist telling another that he was probably wrong. As I recall the quote: Your ideas are crazy, to be sure. But they are not crazy enough to be right. The typical screwball is only somewhat screwy.
In the game *I* have seen yesterday in the Olympiahalle of Munich Canada won 4-1 against Sweden! The last goal for Canada was at 19:59 in the 3rd period. Maybe you shouldn't go and get you another beer before the game is over and then post imaginary results... Holger
Joint Press release ESA/UN No 18-93 Paris, 19 April 1993 UN/ESA joint training course on satellite applications to be held in Italy, 19-30 April The United Nations and the European Space Agency (ESA) are jointly organising a training course on the applications of satellite data gathered by the European Remote Sensing Satellite (ERS-1), to be held in Frascati, Italy, from 19 to 30 April. The training course will discuss the applications of satellite data concerning natural resources, renewable energy and the environment. The training course, organised for the benefit of francophone African experts, will be hosted by ESRIN, the European Space Agency's establishment in Frascati, which is responsible for coordination with the users of data from ESA's remote sensing satellite. Twenty-four experts in the field of remote sensing, selected from 19 francophone countries from northern, western and central Africa, and three regional African centres, will attend the two-week session. The course will focus on remote sensing techniques and data applications, particularly ERS-1 data. The ERS-1 satellite, developed by ESA and launched in 1991 with the European Ariane launcher, carries an advanced radar instrument and is the first in a series of radar remote sensing missions that will ensure availability of data beyond the year 2000. The aim of the training course is to increase the potential of experts using the practical applications of radar remote sensing systems to natural resources, renewable energy and the environment, with particular emphasis on applications to geology and mineral prospecting, oceanography and near- coastal areas, agriculture, forestry and meteorology. The education and practical training programme was developed jointly by the United Nations and ESA. The facilities and the technical support, as well as lecturers and information documents for the training course, will be provided by the Agency. Lecturers at the training course will include high-level experts from other European and African organisations active in remote sensing applications. Funds for the training course are being provided by the United Nations Trust Fund for New and Renewable Sources of Energy; the primary contributor to that Fund is the Government of Italy.
1) This is NOT a feature of the Window Manager but of xterm. 2) This sequences are NOT ANSI compatible, are they ? Does anyone know IF there are compatible sequences for this and what they are ? I would think they are DCS (device control sequence) introduced, but may be a CSI sequence exists, too ? This MUST work on a dxterm (VT and ANSI compatible), it may not work on xterms.
We have no way of knowing because we cannot separate Morris' contribu- tion from the rest of the team's. There is only one way of determin- ing "best" in baseball. And that is by looking at the scoreboard at the end of the game. Each game determines which *team* is the best that day. At the end of the season, the team that was the best the most often is the best in the division. The playoffs determine the best of the best. But the point is that the only decision making pro- cess used to determine the "best" is the score of the game and it re- lates to the *teams*. Not the individual players. There is no method inherent in baseball of comparing individual performances. And that is how it should be, because, after all, baseball is a team game. To say that one player is better than another is to be able to say ab- solutely that player A's team would have played better with player B in their lineup. Sheer speculation. Impossible to ascertain. If you want to select a group of statistics and claim that Clemens has done better with those statistics as a criteria, then fine. But you have to be able to prove that those statistics measure the individual's contribution to winning the WS - because that is the only measure of "best" that has any meaning in the context of base- ball. So until you can prove that Clemens contributes to a WS cham- pionship more than Morris your evaluation of Clemens is totally sub- jective and is mere opinion. I have yet to see that any of you can predict a WS winner with any greater accuracy than Jeanne Dixon. Exactly. The Jays won with Morris pitching. And Boston wins with Clemens pitching. I am not saying that Morris is better than Clemens. I am saying that individual comparisons between players are totally meaningless and that anyone claiming that Clemens is better based on his ERA has missed the point of what baseball is all about. You don't have to be rude. For you to say that means that you have either missed the entire point of my argument, or you yourself have committed a fallacy - Ignoratio Elenchi. I am not saying that Morris is better than Clemens because he has more rings (although I have, tongue in cheek, claimed that in the past). I am saying that it is impossible to isolate an individual's performance from that of his team's for the purpose of comparing that individual's performance with another individual's per- formance. The stats are a nice hobby and that's about it. There is no new knowledge being produced. So when a poster claims that Morris is better than Clemens because he has more rings, the poster is no more nor less incorrect than the rest of you baying hounds. --
They did. For $950K.
: : No. I make a distinction between working for yourself to survive and : paying dues to Mother Nature in the form of labour and working for : Joe propertyowner because you do not have the option of working for : yourself. Joe propertyowner stands between you and the earth you : work and expects you to pay him *and* mother nature for the right : to survive. The property laws create a layer of parasites that get : fat on the fact that people have *no option* except to work in : factories. : I want people to be able to get the things they need in life. Property ownership may not be ideal, but it is far better at letting people get what they need to live a productive, fulfulling life. The first experiment in America, where property ownership was denied, caused, starvation, hunger, and death. Few people know that the Pilgrims originally tried to have common property to grow food and a common food store. Many people know the hardships they suffered the first few winters because of it. After arriving, the Pilgrims made all property common. They all shared in the work and the resulting crops went into a common store. After much debate the new Governor Bradford privitized the land; assigning plots to each family. According to Perry D. Westbrook: "The change was immediately justified by the increased industry of the inhabitants and by the larger acreage planted." experience that was had in this common course and condition, tried sundry years and that amongst godly and sober men, may well evince the vanity of that conceit of Plato's and other ancients applauded by some of later times; that the taking away of property and bringing in community into a commonwealth would make them happy and flourishing; as if they were wiser than God. For this community (so far as it was) was found to breed much confusion and discontent and retard much employment that would have been to their benefit and comfort." Bradford did not blame this failure on the "strangers", but on the basic selfishness in all men. He wrote "seeing all men have this corruption in them, God in his wisdom saw another course fitter for them." In other words, according to Westbrook, "Bradford found private enterprise to be the most suitable economic policy for mankind in its fallen state." Let's not make the same mistake that the Pilgrims made. Private property allows a society to flourish, the alternative brings starvation, poverty and discontent.
The subject does not describe the problem I am having very well. Please read on... I am trying to write a function which creates an XtAppContext and a Widget, displays the widget for a while, then destroys everything and returns. The problem is that multiple calls to this function cause a variety of problems including (depending on which calls I make to get rid of things): - Core Dump - BadPixmap X Error - Widget not unmapped Here is a simple (C++) program I wrote to show the problem: #include <X11/Xlib.h> #include <Xm/Xm.h> #include <Xm/PushB.h> void bla() { XtAppContext app; Display *dis = XOpenDisplay(""); int junk = 0; Widget top=XtAppInitialize (&app, "test", NULL, 0, &junk, NULL, NULL, NULL, 0); Widget box = XtVaCreateManagedWidget("blaaa", xmPushButtonWidgetClass, top, XmNheight, 50, XmNwidth, 50, NULL); XtRealizeWidget(top); //Same as XtAppMainLoop but with only 10 XEvents for (int i=0;i<=10;i++) { XEvent event; XtAppNextEvent(app, &event); XtDispatchEvent(&event); } // WHAT SHOULD I PUT HERE??? XtUnrealizeWidget(top); XtDestroyWidget(top); XtDestroyApplicationContext(app); XCloseDisplay(dis); // ??? } main() { for (int i=0;i<=20;i++) bla(); } Note that I rewrote XtAppMainLoop so that at a given time (in this example, after 10 XEvents) the function will exit and return to the main program. With this example, I get the following error on about (this is NOT consistent) the 5th call to bla(): X Error of failed request: BadPixmap (invalid Pixmap parameter) Major opcode of failed request: 55 (X_CreateGC) Resource id in failed request: 0xe0000d Serial number of failed request: 71 Current serial number in output stream: 86 If I take out the XtUnrealizeWidget(top); line, it just dumps core on the seconds call. Furthermore, every time I call XtAppInitialize() (other than the 1st time), I get: Warning: Initializing Resource Lists twice Warning: Initializing Translation manager twice. So finally, my question is this: What needs to be done in order to be able to call a function which creates an XtAppContext and widgets multiple times? Any help would be greatly appreciated. PLEASE respond via email as I dont usually have time to read this group. Thanks very much. -davewood -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- David Rex Wood -- davewood@cs.colorado.edu -- University of Colorado at Boulder
******* ******* This is somewhat long, but pleas read it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ******* Boy am i glad you decided to read this. I've got a problem that I need as many people's help from as possible. Before I go in to the details of this, let me go ahead and tell you that (though it may sound it) this is not one of those boy meets girl problem...at least not totally like that to me....Anyway... OK, I am a 19 year old Sophmore at NCSU. About 10 years ago, my family and I were vacationing at the coast in a cottage we rented. Across the street, was ths girl who would whistle at me whenever she saw me... her name in Erin. Well, we became friends that week at the beach and have been writing each other for about 10 years....there was a period of about 2 years we lost contact..but that was a while ago. By the way...Erin lives in Kansas and me in NC. OK, last year in one of her letters, she says that she is coming back to NC to see some of her family who are gonna be there. So I drove about 4 hours to see her. This is where it begins....I spent the whole day with Erin....one of the best days of my life. Even though we had been writing each other, we still had to get used to being in person....she has got to be the most incredible woman I ever met. (She's one year older than me BTW). I mean, no person in the world could ask for a better person. Not only was she incredibly beautiful (not to mention WAY out of my league...although I'm not unattractive mind you), but she had a great personality and a great sence of humor. Her family is one of those families who goes to church but that is about the extent of their Christianity...you know the kind of people. But she knows I am a Christian. Well, you get the idea of what I think of her. If there is ever such a thing as love at first sight....I found it. That was last year...I kid you not when I say that I have thought about her EVERY day since then. In out letters, Erin and I always kid each other about not finding dates..(which is true for me, but I know it can't be for her). She has had some problems at home, her folks split up and she ended up leaving school....Now we are at the present... Let me give you part of the letter I got from her last week.... "Okay, now I'm going to try to explain my life to you. I'm not going to KU anymore because something just isn't right. College just wasn't clicking with me here. Greek life is really big here and that just isn't my way. I wasn't taking any classes that truly interested me & i really have no idea of what i want to do with my life. I was interested in something medical (Physical Therpy) & I love working with kids, but 'it' just didn't work for me at this university. And my parents could tell. "So I'm working full time at the Bass Store [Bass shoes that is] and now I have a part-time job at a local daycare. I work in the infant room M-W-F. I've really enjoyed it so far. It spices up my week a little bit and it's great experience. "As of now, I'm not planning on going back to school in the very near future. The main reason being my indecision on what I want to study. But I definatley plan on going back within the next couple of years. Where? I have no idea--except for one thing, it won't be to Kansas. "Right noew I'm discussing a promotion with my boss and district manager. It looks like I'll train at the store I work at now for about 4-6 months as Assistant Manager and when that's done, I'll basically be given a list of stores (newly or soon to be built) to chose where i would like to manage. I've pretty much decided on either one of the Carolinas (hopeully close to the beach) Wouldn't it be fun to actually see each other more than once every few years?? What do you think abou that? I would like to know your opinion. "This job would pretty much be temporary. But it is VERY GOOD pay and any thye of management experience would look good on an application or resume. The company is solid and treats it employees very well. Good benefits, bonuses & medical plans. Plus- after 1 year of full-time service, they will reimburse tuition. I do have school money waitng for me, but this will help, especially since I will probably end up paying out of state tuition wherever I go. "Chris, i really would like to know what you think of my decision. I respect your opinion. I've been completely lost for what to do for soooo long that when the opportunity came along it sounded really good. I do like my job although I'm about 99.9% sure that i want to do more with my life than reatil management..but it IS something. I don't think earning about $20,000 a year for a 20 year old female is too bad. "Anyway, onto your career decisions. I'll solve your problem right now, MARRY ME... "You can do your pilot thing-- I like to be by myself sometimes! Seriously (or not as seriously)- do what will make you the happiest, worry about the home life later." *********** OK, well I'm sure you see what has got me so uptight. What do you think she meant about the marraige thing?? I dream at night about marrying her, and then she mentions it in her letter!!! I don't know what to think?? Since she wants to move to the Carolina's should i search out a Bass store near here and aske her to come to Carolina??? I always pick on those people who graduate from high school and get married....but what does she mean??? I've had a lot of stress lately with exams and also the fact that I don't date beacause 1) No time 2) Not that much $$ 3) that most college women are wrapped up in the social scene with the Greeks whic as a Christian I can't support-----and here she says she doesn't like the Greek thing either!! Maybe I'm so stunned because there is actually a girl that I am so attracted to paying some real attention to me. I mean, what if she did move to NC...what would I do??? I'm only 19 and she 20....I'm only a Sophmore struggling through classes.. I have prayed about this over the past year from time to time.. saying, "God if she is the right one, let the situation open up.." Could this be my sign??? I would do ANYTHING to get her to NC...here is some moree that makes it worse.. Should I call her?? I'm terrible over the phone. I don't even like to talk to my friends here for longer than 3 minutes. I mean, what would a girl as perfect as her want with a very average guy like me?? I'm really confused....I would really appreciate any help i can get. Thanx Chris
But what if the geologists are wrong and these people are warning of a non-existent danger? Analogies can only push an argument so far (on both sides). Both Melinda's and yours assume the premises used to set up your respective analogies are true and thus the correct conclusion will arise. The important point to note is the different directions both sides come from. Christians believe they know the TRUTH and thus believe they have the right (and duty) to tell the TRUTH to all. Christians can get offended if others do not believe (what is self-evidently to them) the TRUTH. Non-christians do not believe this is the TRUTH and get offended at them because they (christians) claim to know the TRUTH. (BTW this argument goes for anyone, I am not just bagging christians) Neither side can be really reconciled unless one of the parties changes their mind. As Melinda pointed out, there is no point in arguing along these lines because both approach from a different premise. A more useful line of discussion is WHY people believe in particular faiths. Personally, I don't mind what anyone believes as long as they allow me mine and we can all live peacefully.
Maybe I should point out that we are not talking about c.s.amiga.*. Only comp.graphics.
From article <C4zLJ8.Bun@queernet.org>, by rogerk@queernet.org (Roger B.A. Klorese): #>NAMBLA's presence in the SF Gay Pride Parade says quite a bit. #>It says that either the parade organizers want to show support #>for NAMBLA, or they themselves have a fundamental misunderstanding #>of their rights and responsibilities. I would really, really like #>to believe the latter, but I would need some help to do so. Perhaps, though the exclusion of the Gay Perotistas in the SF Gay Pride Parade would make me think that they had some clue in this regard. Dozens of examples? I don't know...
Actually, there is one condemnation of lesbian acts in the Bible, Romans 1:26. I think. In There are plenty who don't read the Bible. Or pray for that matter.
I'm working upon a game using an isometric perspective, similar to that used in Populous. Basically, you look into a room that looks similar to the following: xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx x xxxx xxxx x xxxx xxxx 2 xxxx 1 xxxx x xxxx xxxx x x xxxx xxxx x x xxxx o xxxx x xxxx 3 /|\ xxxx xxxx /~\ xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx The good thing about this perspective is that you can look and move around in three dimensions and still maintain your peripheral vision. [*] Since your viewpoint is always the same, the routines can be hard-coded for a particular vantage. In my case, wall two's rising edge has a slope of 1/4. (I'm also using Mode X, 320x240). I've run into two problems; I'm sure that other readers have tried this before, and have perhaps formulated their own opinions: 1) The routines for drawing walls 1 & 2 were trivial, but when I ran a packed->planar image through them, I was dismayed by the "jaggies." I'm now considered some anti-aliasing routines (speed is not really necessary). Is it worth the effort to have the artist draw the wall already skewed, thus being assured of nice image, or is this too much of a burden? 2) Wall 3 presents a problem; the algorithm I used tends to overly distort the original. I tried to decide on paper what pixels go where, and failed. Has anyone come up with method for mapping a planar to crosswise sheared shape? Currently I take: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 and produce: 1 2 3 4 33 34 35 36 17 18 19 20 5 6 7 8 49 50 51 52 37 38 39 40 21 22 23 24 9 10 11 12 53 54 55 56 41 42 43 44 25 26 27 28 13 14 15 16 57 58 59 60 45 46 47 48 29 30 31 32 61 62 63 64 Line 1 follows the slope. Line 2 is directly under line 1. Line 3 moves up a line and left 4 pixels. Line 4 is under line 3. This fills the shape exactly without any unfilled pixels. But it causes distortions. Has anyone come up with a better way? Perhaps it is necessary to simply draw the original bitmap already skewed? Are there any other particularly sticky problems with this perspective? I was planning on having hidden plane removal by using z-buffering. Locations are stored in (x,y,z) form. [*] For those of you who noticed, the top lines of wall 2 (and wall 1) *are* parallel with its bottom lines. This is why there appears to be an optical illusion (ie. it appears to be either the inside or outside of a cube, depending on your mood). There are no vanishing points. This simplifies the drawing code for objects (which don't have to change size as they move about in the room). I've decided that this approximation is alright, since small displacements at a large enough distance cause very little change in the apparent size of an object in a real perspective drawing. Hopefully the "context" of the picture (ie. chairs on the floor, torches hanging on the walls) will dispell any visual ambiguity. Thanks in advance for any help.
Actually, many of us have noted this. We have noted that the program started at least 4 years ago, that the contracts with VLSI Technology and Microtoxin were let at least 14 months ago, that production of the chips is well underway, and so forth. Nobody I know has claimed Clinton intitiated the program. But he chose to go ahead with it. Perhaps the NSA realised that *no-one* would even contemplate falling for the dual-escrow bluff while under the Bush administration and *had* to wait for a Democrat govt to con into promoting this because people *might* just believe they were honest. (Didn't work, did it? :-) )
Wow, you're quicker to point out heresy than the Church in the Middle ages. Seriously though, even the Sheiks at Al-Azhar don't claim that the Shi'ites are heretics. Most of the accusations and fabrications about Shi'ites come out of Saudi Arabia from the Wahabis. For that matter you should read the original works of the Sunni Imams (Imams of the four madhabs). The teacher of at least two of them was Imam Jafar Sadiq (the sixth Imam of the Shi'ites).
Yeah. Innocents. People who hoard $250K worth of high-caliber automatic weapons and kill law-enforcement agents really fit the bill here. The only innocents were the 20+ children who were prevented from leaving a burning building by their self-appointed messiah-following parents. A burning STARTED by the Davidians. Is this subject line a veiled threat against U.S. Government agents or possibly Executive office leadership (i.e. Clinton)? I've considered you a bit of a loon, before, Stephen, I guess this pretty much confirms it. Nice religion you have there. The only ones who should be killed are those who don't agree with us. Sheesh. -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------Tom Hyatt I'm a diehard Saints fan, so i've thyat@sdf.lonestar.org suffered quite enough, thank you! Arlington, TX Help! I'm being repressed! -M.Python -------------------------------
Archive-name: space/net Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:15 $ NETWORK RESOURCES OVERVIEW You may be reading this document on any one of an amazing variety of computers, so much of the material below may not apply to you. In general, however, systems connected to 'the net' fall in one of three categories: Internet, Usenet, or BITNET. Electronic mail may be sent between these networks, and other resources available on one of these networks are sometimes accessible from other networks by email sent to special 'servers'. The space and astronomy discussion groups actually are composed of several mechanisms with (mostly) transparent connections between them. One mechanism is the mailing list, in which mail is sent to a central distribution point which relays it to all recipients of the list. In addition to the general lists for space (called SPACE Digest for Internet users, and SPACE on BITNET), there are a number of more specialized mailing lists described below. A second mechanism is Usenet 'netnews'. This is somewhat like a bulletin board operating on each system which is a part of the net. Netnews separates contributions into hundreds of different categories based on a 'group name'. The groups dealing most closely with space topics are called 'sci.space.news', 'sci.space', 'sci.space.shuttle', 'sci.astro', and 'talk.politics.space'. Contributors 'post' submissions (called 'articles' in netnews terminology) on their local machine, which sends it to other nearby machines. Similarly, articles sent from nearby machines are stored locally and may be forwarded to other systems, so that an article is posted locally and eventually reaches all the Usenet sites interested in receiving the news group to which the article was posted. Gateway machines redirect the Usenet sci.space group into Internet and BITNET mailing lists and vice versa; the other Usenet groups are not accessible as mailing lists. If you can receive netnews, its more flexible interface and access to a wider range of material usually make it the preferred option. MAILING LISTS SPACE Digest is the main Internet list, and is now being run by the International Space University (in only its second change of management in over a decade). Email space-request@isu.isunet.edu (message body should be in the format 'subscribe space John Public') to join. Note that the moderated SPACE Magazine list is defunct at present for lack of a moderator. Old copies of SPACE Digest since its inception in 1981 are available by anonymous FTP. Retrieve julius.cs.qub.ac.uk:pub/SpaceDigestArchive/README for further details. Elements is a moderated list for fast distribution of Space Shuttle Keplerian Elements before and during Shuttle flights. NASA two line elements are sent out on the list from Dr. Kelso, JSC, and other sources as they are released. Email to elements-request@telesoft.com to join. GPS Digest is a moderated list for discussion of the Global Positioning System and other satellite navigation positioning systems. Email to gps-request@esseye.si.com to join. Space-investors is a list for information relevant to investing in space-related companies. Email Vincent Cate (vac@cs.cmu.edu) to join. Space-tech is a list for more technical discussion of space topics; discussion has included esoteric propulsion technologies, asteroid capture, starflight, orbital debris removal, etc. Email to space-tech-request@cs.cmu.edu to join. Archives of old digests and selected excerpts are available by anonymous FTP from gs80.sp.cs.cmu.edu (128.2.205.90) in /usr/anon/public/space-tech, or by email to space-tech-request if you don't have FTP access. SEDS-L is a BITNET list for members of Students for the Exploration and Development of Space and other interested parties. Email LISTSERV@TAMVM1.BITNET with a message saying "SUBSCRIBE SEDS-L your name". Email saying "INDEX SEDS-L" to list the archive contents. SEDSNEWS is a BITNET list for news items, press releases, shuttle status reports, and the like. This duplicates material which is also found in Space Digest, sci.space, sci.space.shuttle, and sci.astro. Email LISTSERV@TAMVM1.BITNET saying "SUBSCRIBE SEDSNEWS your name" to join. Email saying "INDEX SEDSNEWS" to list the archive contents. Ron Baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) runs a mailing list which carries the contents of the sci.space.news Usenet group. Email him to join the list. As a general note, please mail to the *request* address to get off a mailing list. SPACE Digest, for example, relays many inappropriate 'please remove me from this list' messages which are sent to the list address rather than the request address. PERIODICALLY UPDATED INFORMATION In addition to this FAQ list, a broad variety of topical information is posted to the net (unless otherwise noted, in the new group sci.space.news created for this purpose). Please remember that the individuals posting this information are performing a service for all net readers, and don't take up their time with frivolous requests. ACRONYMS Garrett Wollman (wollman@UVM.EDU) posts an acronym list around the first of each month. ASTRO-FTP LIST Veikko Makela (veikko.makela@helsinki.fi) posts a monthly list of anonymous FTP servers containing astronomy and space related material to sci.space and sci.astro. AVIATION WEEK Henry Spencer (henry@zoo.toronto.edu) posts summaries of space-related stories in the weekly _Aviation Week and Space Technology_. BUYING TELESCOPES Ronnie Kon (ronnie@cisco.com) posts a guide to buying telescopes to sci.astro. ELECTRONIC JOURNAL OF THE ASA Don Barry (don@chara.gsu.edu) posts the monthly Electronic Journal of the Astronomical Society of the Atlantic to sci.astro. FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL Swaraj Jeyasingh (sjeyasin@axion.bt.co.uk) posts summaries of space-related news from _Flight International_. This focuses more on non-US space activities than Aviation Week. LARGE ASTRONOMICAL PROJECTS Robert Bunge (rbunge@access.digex.com) posts a list describing many "Large Telescope Projects Either Being Considered or in the Works" to sci.astro. NASA HEADLINE NEWS & SHUTTLE REPORTS Peter Yee (yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov) posts a variety of NASA material, including NASA Headline News (with the schedule for NASA SELECT), shuttle payload briefings and flight manifests, and KSC shuttle status reports. For Usenet users, much of this material appears in the group sci.space.shuttle. NASA UPDATES Ron Baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) posts frequent updates from JPL, Ames, and other centers on the Ulysses, Gailileo, Pioneer, Magellan, Landsat, and other missions. ORBITAL ELEMENT SETS TS Kelso (tkelso@blackbird.afit.af.mil) posts orbital elements from NASA Prediction Bulletins. Mike Rose (mrose@stsci.edu) posts orbital elements for the Hubble Space Telescope to sci.astro. Jost Jahn (j.jahn@abbs.hanse.de) posts ephemerides for asteroids, comets, conjunctions, and encounters to sci.astro. SATELLITE LAUNCHES Richard Langley (lang@unb.ca) posts SPACEWARN Bulletin, which describes recent launch/orbital decay information and satellites which are useful for scientific activities. Recent bulletins are available by anonymous FTP from nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov in ANON_DIR:[000000.ACTIVE.SPX]. SHUTTLE MANIFEST Ken Hollis (gandalf@pro-electric.cts.com) posts a compressed version of the Space Shuttle launch manifest to sci.space.shuttle. This includes dates, times, payloads, and information on how to see launches and landings. SOLAR ACTIVITY Cary Oler (oler@hg.uleth.ca) posts Solar Terrestrial reports (describing solar activity and its effect on the Earth) to sci.space. The report is issued in part from data released by the Space Enviroment Services Center, Boulder Colorado. The intro document needed to understand these reports is available by anonymous FTP from solar.stanford.edu (36.10.0.4) in pub/understanding_solar_terrestrial_reports. nic.funet.fi (128.214.6.100) also has this document in /pub/misc/rec.radio.shortwave/solarreports and is an archive site for the reports (please note this site is in Europe, and the connection to the US is only 56KB). A new primary archive site, xi.uleth.ca (142.66.3.29), has recently been established and will be actively supported. SOVIET SPACE ACTIVITIES Glenn Chapman (glennc@cs.sfu.ca) posts summaries of Soviet space activities. SPACE ACTIVIST NEWSLETTER Allen Sherzer (aws@iti.org) posts a newsletter, "One Small Step for a Space Activist," to talk.politics.space. It describes current legislative activity affecting NASA and commercial space activities. SPACE EVENTS CALENDAR Ron Baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) posts a calendar including anniversaries, conferences, launch dates, meteor showers and eclipses, and other space-related events. SPACE NEWS John Magliacane (kd2bd@ka2qhd.UUCP) posts "SpaceNews" (covering AMSATs, NOAA and other weather satellites, and other ham information) to rec.radio.amateur.misc and sci.space. SPACE REPORT Jonathan McDowell (mcdowell@cfa.harvard.edu) posts "Jonathan's Space Report" covering launches, landings, reentries, status reports, satellite activities, etc. TOWARD 2001 Bev Freed (freed@nss.fidonet.org) posts "Toward 2001", a weekly global news summary reprinted from _Space Calendar_ magazine. WARNING ABOUT NON-PUBLIC NETWORKS (Included at the suggestion of Eugene Miya, who wrote the item) NASA has an internal system of unclassified electronic mail and bulletin boards. This system is not open for public use. Specifically, NASA personnel and procurement operations are regarded with some sensitivity. Contractors must renegotiate their contracts. The Fair and Open Procurement Act does not look kindly to those having inside information. Contractors and outsiders caught using this type of information can expect severe penalities. Unauthorized access attempts may subject you to a fine and/or imprisonment in accordance with Title 18, USC, Section 1030. If in fact you should should learn of unauthorized access, contact NASA personnel. Claims have been made on this news group about fraud and waste. None have ever been substantiated to any significant degree. Readers detecting Fraud, Waste, Abuse, or Mismanagement should contact the NASA Inspector General (24-hours) at 800-424-9183 (can be anonymous) or write NASA Inspector General P.O. Box 23089 L'enfant Plaza Station Washington DC 20024
I've seen PGP 2.2 mentioned for the Mac platform. I use 2.0 on MS/DOS. Is there a 2.2 for MS/DOS? If so, a site or two that has it available (I'd need executables, although source would be nice to review). What was "fixed" or changed from 2.0 > 2.2?
Gawd, I love Windows :-) You'll probably want to delete any damaged executables and reload them fresh. Data files should be examined and repaired. You're not stupid. Smartdrive caches things, and Windows also runs a swap file which may contain data also. All of this is pretty risky stuff in a PC environment. A reasonably accurate prediction... Here's a brief description of how DOS stores files: There are three pieces to a file. The directory entry, the FAT chain, and the data area. You can think of these as a sheet of lined notebook paper, a sheet of graph paper, and a stack of 3X5 cards. The directory entry (notebook paper) holds the file name, actual size, and first cluster number. It also holds some other information that's not important right now. The File Allocation Table (FAT) chain (graph paper) tells where to find the actual data. Each square of graph paper holds a number. If the number is zero, the cluster associated with this box is available. If it holds a "magic" number, it is either the last piece of a file or a bad (unuseable) spot on the disk. Any other number tells which cluster contains the next section of the file. The data area (3X5 cards) is where the actual information is stored. The data area is organized as clusters of a fixed size; storage is doled out in "chunks" of one cluster each. (In your case, one cluster is 2048 bytes.) As a cluster is filled, another is allocated. To read a file, you first look at the directory entry to get the starting cluster number. Now you read the data from that cluster. Next, look at the FAT entry for the cluster you just read. This will tell you the cluster number for the next chunk of the file. Naturally, these numbers are usually sequential, but they can jump around and even go backwards. Continue reading, one cluster at a time, as you walk this chain through the FAT, until you hit the marker which says it's the last cluster in the file. CHKDSK is the DOS utility that checks the sanity and coherence of the directories and the FAT and can bludgeon most flaws into submission. It doesn't have any intelligence, so you have to double-check anything it "fixes". Now let's do a bit of a post-mortem: All of these files have sizes (according to the FAT) which don't match the size reported in their directory entries. CHKDSK /F will alter the directory entries to match the FAT size. (In other words, the directory entry for CVPIC.EXE may say the file is 64,877 bytes long. But CHKDSK found a FAT chain of 43 clusters attached to it. (My numbers, obviously, are made up.)) Disk space was found which is allocated in the FAT, but is not attached to any directory entry. CHKDSK /F gives you the option of converting these "lost chains" to files. You can then examine the files (FILE0000.CHK through FILE0223.CHK) and rename or discard them. Or, if you tell CHKDSK _not_ to convert them to files, then those clusters will simply be marked "available" in the FAT. ... These files are both referencing the _same_ data cluster. Obviously, one of them (at least) must be wrong. It's interesting to note that C:\386SPART.PAR is your Windows swap file... To fix this, you should copy each cross-linked file to a new name. This will "fix" the cross-link by giving the files unique data spaces. Now delete the cross-linked files. Examine the copies and try to assemble them properly. Good luck. (Hint: "Missing pieces" are likely to be found in those "lost chains" at the top...) Your disk is pretty close to full. This may be the actual cause of the problem; perhaps Windows needed to expand its swapfile by an amount which exceeded available disk space... In any case, the short summary is that something trashed your FAT. There are utilities that can mirror your FAT and help repair damage after something like this, but you have to run them _before_ the problem occurs. Sorry. -- ---------------------------------------------------- Gordon S. Hlavenka cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us Vote straight ticket Procrastination party Dec. 3rd! --
Howdy all, Where could I find a screen-grabber program for MS-Windows? I'm writing up some documentation and it would be VERY helpful to include sample screens into the document. Please e-mail as I don't usualy follow this group. Thanks a lot, Grant
Actually, what I think has become more evident, is that you are determined to flaunt your ignorance at all cost. Jagr did not have a better season than Francis ... to suggest otherwise is an insult to those with a modicum of hockey knowledge. Save your almost maniacal devotion to the almighty plus/minus ... it is the most misleading hockey stat available. Until the NHL publishes a more useful quantifiable statistic including ice time per game and some measure of its "quality" (i.e., is the player put out in key situations like protecting a lead late in the game; is he matched up against the other team's top one or two lines; short-handed, etc), I would much rather see the +/- disappear altogether instead of having its dubious merits trumpeted by those with little understanding of its implications. Brad -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Brad K. Gibson INTERNET: gibson@geop.ubc.ca Dept. of Geophysics & Astronomy #129-2219 Main Mall PHONE: (604)822-6722 University of British Columbia FAX: (604)822-6047 Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6T 1Z4
Fret not, you made it. Not while we still have our guns. <evil grin> Hey, gang, it's not about duck hunting, or about dark alleys, it's about black-clad, helmeted and booted troops storming houses and violating civil rights under color of law. Are YOU ready to defend YOUR Constitution?
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----- Hi all.. Does anyone know of a UNIX utility allowing encrypted telnet sessions using public-key? I'd like something so that nobody can snoop my password or session text while I'm logging in remotely over the network. Thanks g. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------- PLEASE REPORT UNSIGNED (HENCE UNAUTHORISED) MESSAGES PURPORTEDLY FROM ME, SENT AFTER 22/04/93. gtf1000@cus.cam.ac.uk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE----- Version: 2.2
I think this is a weak argument. The fact is, there are *two* references to Jesus in _Antiquities of the Jews_, one of which has unquestionably at least been altered by Christians. Origen wrote, in the third century, that Josephus did not recognize Jesus as the Messiah, while the long passage says the opposite. There is an Arabic manuscript of _Antiquities of the Jews_ which contains a version of the passage which is much less gung-ho for Jesus and may be authentic. There is no question that Origen, in the third century, saw a reference to Jesus in Josephus. There are no manuscripts of _Antiquities_ which lack the references. It is possible that it was fabricated out of whole cloth and inserted, but I don't think it's very likely--nor do I think there is a consensus in the scholarly community that this is the case. (I know G.A. Wells takes this position, but that's because he takes the very small minority view that Jesus never existed. And he is a professor of German, not of biblical history or New Testament or anything directly relevant to the historicity of Jesus.)
Also not a lawyer, etc. but if I remember correctly the Contempt of Court business is used in order to compel cooperation with what is (perhaps questionably, different issue) the legitimate business of that court. Quite literally the party is found guilty of holding the court "in contempt". Now, the original scheme as suggested here would be to have the key disappear if certain threatening conditions are met. Once the key is gone there is no question of Contempt of Court as there is nothing to compell, the key is no longer there to be produced. Obstruction of justice would be a different issue but if the suspect in question would have some legitmate reason to protect his data from prying eyes (however extenuated) I think that this charge would be a hard nut to make. Perhaps it is time for a lawyer to step in and clear this all up? -=*=- -=*=- -=*=- -=*=- -=*=- Vincent A. Kub, WD0DBX | "Saints should always be judged | guilty until they are proven vkub@charlie.usd.edu | innocent." -Geo. Orwell | 14 W.Cherry St. #2 | "It is good to die before one has Vermillion, S.Dakota 57069 | done anything deserving of death." phone or fax to (605) 624-8680 | - Anaxandirdes | King of Sparta ------------------------------------------------------------------- -----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK----- Version: 2.2
In the case of victimless crimes yes, I think so. Think about it. If I rob or beat up or rape or kill someone, it's very clear to anyone not a sociopath that I've done something immoral. On the other hand, if I smoke grass or have sex with a consenting adult in a manner illegal in that state, the morality or immorality of that act is merely a lifestyle choice; it doesn;t clearly hurt anyone else. IMO, if such an act doesn;t hurt another person it should not be interfered with. I think so. And I don't use drugs, outside of the legal ones (alcohol and coffee).
Of course not. The USA's only hope is for Yelsen (how ever you spell it) to fail the referendum, and have the hard-liners take over again. -- jmd@handheld.com
[...] Wait a minute. I thought you said that Allah (I presume Allah == God) was unknowable, and yet here you are claiming to know a very concrete fact about him. You say that God does not have a "face". Doesn't the bible say that God has hindparts? How do you suggest I decide which (if any) of you is right? Or are you both right? God has hindparts but no face? Or does your use of quotation marks: God does not have a "face". allow you to interpret this to mean whatever you like?
[A lot of this article has been deleted for space.]
The relevance is that if you've got x homicides and reduce the number of gun homicides in that group, but x doesn't decrease by a significant amount, have you made an improvement, and is that improvement worth what you've paid? If a baseball bat is a tenth as likely to kill a victim as a gun, is that any comfort to that tenth? I've faced a knife. And I was damn annoyed I didn't *have* a gun. All the statistics in the world didn't change the fact that *he* was interested in cutting *me*. "Anyone trained in self-defense." Unarmed self-defense isn't for everyone. What's more, it requires substantially more training to be safe and effective than a firearm. It requires physical proximity and thus a greater threat to the victim, which is a primary problem with stun guns. You have to actually touch your assailant. Unless you're *very* good, a large, stronger assailant can simply ignore your blows long enough to incapacitate you.
It was around 1969 in the Shenandoah Valley near Woodstock, Virginia. Me, my wife, a friend, his wife, and his 2 kids were hiking in a totally desolate mountain area. All of a sudden, large rocks began raining down on us. Looking up, we saw at least 3 punks gleefully letting loose rocks from what was an obvious stash. They were a couple hundred feet above us. Meanwhile, the women and kids were screaming and running for cover and the punks were shrieking with laughter. Me and my friend yelled for them to knock it off. They responded that we should "Get f***ed!". Me and my friend drew our pistols and fired a couple of times into the trees above their heads. They ran. With no more 3-5 pound rocks coming at our heads, we proceeded on our journey. Sorry, but me and my friend saw no need to let it evolve to a more "violent" level than we were already experiencing. I guess we should have tried harder to understand and cope with the anger that society had instilled in them and was driving them to do such things. Guess that's a cross I'll have to bear.
If it were my wife, I would insist that a radiologist be involved in the process. Radiologist are intensively trained in the process of interpreting diagnostic imaging data and are aware of many things that other physicians aren't aware of. Would you want a radiologist to deliver your baby? If you wouldn't, then why would you want a OB/GYN to read your ultrasound study? In my opinion the process should involve a OB/GYN and a radiologist.
Specifically, which changes are you talking about? Are you arguing that the motto is interpreted as offensive by a larger portion of the population now than 40 years ago?
In the past, I have used named pipes to communicate between processes using the XtAddInput function to set up the event handling in Motif. Does anybody know of a way to do this with message passing ( IPC ) ? I tried it here and no luck so far.
That's OK -- you can mail me if you want more discussion. Around here, long-guns are proof of age and fill out the forms. For pistols, nation-wide check for felonies and three days wait. The "good reason" is the difference, and one Americans tend to get annoyed over as we see no reason the guy with the badge is any better than us. Not when dealing with America. I can drive an 18-wheel truck with no permit, no license, and at age 12 if I'm engaged in farming work. Strange, that, but there is little to no problem with this. Again, personal rights versus collective security. Strange that the rates would decline, since killing somebody is much more frowned upon than merely stealing a gun. Why attract attention? I carry my sword openly to and from practice, as that is the only legal thing I can do. I also attract a lot of attention doing this. I'd rather be lost "in a crowd of one" than be the subject of attention while carrying a weapon. Think of the word "intimidation" and you can see where intimidation is not the preferable method for the normal citizen. Aggressive towards whom? Southerners? Germans? Precisely why I think your society is less violent, weapons aside. Then the masses have the same rights as the individuals, because everything comes down to the individual in one instance or another. To draw an analogy, Norway is involved in the EEC. The USA in involved in NATO. The EEC requires certain changes in your laws. NATO requires no such changes in USA law. These laws affect citizens, and hence Norway is saying Europe is more important than, say, Norwegians having motorcycles that make over 100bhp. In the USA, we'd likely tell the EEC to get stuffed since the EEC has no business, in our eyes, in telling us how much horsepower we can safely ride. While I note that our own state governments often play with game with the federal government, in essence this is a cultural difference between us. It shouldn't. Since neither of our countries has managed to remove criminals from society, in America we feel (and remember we have individual states that are larger than your country) that if the police cannot protect us then we must do so ourselves. The criminals in our country are quite violent, hence we prepare for them. We don't. E-mail me to find out just how difficult it really is in this country. It is easier than in yours, but theft is far easier than the troubles we go through to purchase over here. They are neither. They are an option. We would never force you to own guns if you lived here. We would, however, fight to keep that option open to you. Then you show you are a responsible, rational user of weapons. Welcome to our ranks. Now, how do we teach the young people this sort of responsibility? Cultures seem to have a grave impact here. I notice you didn't use my great-grandfather's name. Well, he didn't like it much either ;-)
I have received my copies of Cosmonautics 1990 and Cosmonautics 1991, as well as Soviet Space 1990 and Space Station [MIR] Handbook from Aerospace Ambassadors with no problem. I'm getting ready to FAX them some material in Huntsville, and I'll include a printout of your inquiry. ____________________________________________________________
> > > SOmebody mentioned a re-boost of HST during this mission, meaning > that Weight is a very tight margin on this mission. > I haven't heard any hint of a re-boost, or that any is needed. > > why not grapple, do all said fixes, bolt a small liquid fueled > thruster module to HST, then let it make the re-boost. it has to be > cheaper on mass then usingthe shuttle as a tug. Nasty, dirty combustion products! People have gone to monumental efforts to keep HST clean. We certainly aren't going to bolt any thrusters to it.
I've seen this verse used to back up this idea: "...He has also set eternity in the hearts of men..." (Ecclesiastes 3:11)
Just a little something I found while reading the Village Voice, which is not noted for its sports coverage, but occasionally the print some interesting features. This year, the predictions/team analyses for the 1993 season were presented in the form of Bob Dylan lyrics. I don't have the article in front of me, so I'll only give the memorable ones here that I remember and know the melody to. I could dig up more if there is interest. Yankess (to the tune of "Subterranean Homesick Blues") Howe is in the basement, mixing up the medicine. George is on the pavement thinking 'bout the government. Wade Boggs in a trench coat, bat out, paid off, Says he's got a bad back, wants to get it laid off. Look out kids, it's somethin' you did. Don't know when, but it's Columbus again. Mets (to the tune of "Like a Rolling Stone") Once upon a time you played so fine you threw away Dykstra before his prime, didn't you? People said "Beware Cone, he's bound to roam" But you thought they were just kidding you. You used to laugh about, The Strawberry that was headin' out. But now you don't talk so loud, Now you don't seem so proud, About having to shop Vince Coleman for your next deal.... Phillies (to the tune of "Highway 61") Well Daulton and Dykstra should have some fun, Just keep them off of Highway 61! Giants (to the tune of "The Ballad of Rubin 'Hurricane' Carter") This is the story of the Magowan, The man St. Petersburg came to pan, For something that he never done, He sits in the owner's box but one... Day he could have been the Tampian of the world! _______________________________________________________________________________ Bill Moakler | LPO 10280 | !RUTGERS ANIME! moakler@remus.rutgers.edu| PO BOX 5064 | !ATLANTIC ANIME ALLIANCE! (908)-932-3465 |New Brunswick, NJ 08903| !CHIBI-CON '93!
I've talked with Mark and he faxed some literature, though it wasn't very helpful- just a list of routine names: _BSplineSurface, _DrawString3D... 241 names. There was a Product Info sheet that explained some of the package capabilities. I also found a review in April/May '92 MacTutor.
Really? What makes you think the Islanders have a better shot? They couldn't even beat the Whalers in two games! (Well, since you're a Pens fans the whole question is moot. I think the teams most likely to beat the Pens are the Bruins, Nordiques, and Blackhawks but I don't think they can really do it. :-))
iank@microsoft.com (Ian Kennedy) writes... More along the lines of Hebrews 12:25-29, I reckon... See that you refuse not him that speaks. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaks from heaven: Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he has promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. And this word, Yet once more, signifies the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear: For our God is a consuming fire. Or 2nd Thessalonians 1:7-10... And to you who are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ: Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power; When he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe (because our testimony among you was believed) in that day. Kinda gives Flaming a whole new meaning, I reckon. - < > - The impression I got from talking with Livingston was that the coming of the Lord, power-wise, is going to be something that those who are unprepared can't handle -- kinda like overloading a fuse -- due to guilt. Somehow it seems to also apply to the entire physical world as we know it. LF suggests that God doesn't want that and has sent Koresh as a reminder. Seems that those who have been purified through salvation, or that those protected by the Seals, will be the ones who survive. And no -- I don't have a good idea yet what "being shielded by the seals" actually involves or how exactly it relates to salvation. (Other than it involves the marriage of the Bridegroom and the Bride... for those of you Biblical well versed.) - < > - Me personally, I'm totally 100% dependent on God through Christ, so if God wants me to understand, good. If not, also good. If God wants to save me, or dispose of me, that's great either way. Being born in the Spirit, means being part of the Body of Christ (Ephesians 2), so who and what I was, matters little. * What's important is loving GOD * Come Nova, Nuke, or Apocalypse -- who cares? Satan might even be able to pull off a pretty convincing fake. Big deal. Not worth fearing or worrying about though, not before: -* The Greater Glory of GOD *- Maybe Koresh is right, maybe he isn't, and it should be interesting to see the new message (or prophecy). The tour of the Bible I've taken in studying the passages he points to in the 3-02 text, has been most re- warding. But the test of prophecy is still the fruit it bears -- which is not yet clear. Much much more important is "Charity" -- which by definition *is* -- Love for GOD (I hope Dear Reader, you've taken all this as an expression of faith, and not a statement of mere fact. Seems many folks get real upset at reminders. ;-)
Minor quibble: The assualt (and it was one) began near dawn. The fire did not break out for several hours. I find it highly unlikely that the BD would be cooking lunch while armored vehicles punch holes in their house and are pumping in tear gas. The lantern story makes more sense, except the fire seemed to spread too quickly, even given the nature of the buildings and the very high winds. And it was daylight, but I guess in the innner recesses it could be dark--shutters probably closed as well. Which puts us back to the FBI did it, or the BD did it, or some other screw- up occured, which is quite possible. The problem with the FBI as a monolithic entity doing it is that it requires *everybody* involved to keep their mouths shut. While they tended to behave like total idiots, that does not make them homocidal maniacs, either. And if it was one nutcase agent, then it serves no purpose to blame the whole agency. I can believe that a real nut-case like a Koresh would start such a fire, but I'm far from convinced he actually did so. Then again, I rarely go off making blanket condemnations and pronouncments within 2 hours of a very confusing incident over 175 miles away... semper fi,
[Sarcastic text deleted, No value judgement implied] At first I was going to complain that your analogy was completely irrelevant. But then I remembered something. Remember that move to get the U.S. to the metric system all those years ago? As far as I know we were supposed to be there by now. The government sold it as better for the people, easier to be in tune with the rest of the world. They had decided it was for our own good. Then, when the plan was released, it soon became apparant that the government were a bunch 'o' thickies. Think about it, change all the railroad track widths, signs, screws, abolish the old regime. At the cost of millions of dollars. Your point is well taken. You think there is nothing to worry about, you could care less who designs your cryptography, any more than who designs your screws or the system of measurement you use. Sit back, that's right, just relax, we'll take care of all your needs Mr. Molitor.
Have a look at Ed Belfour. Belfour kicked Gerrard Gallant when the Wings played the 'Hawks a couple of weeks ago. No penalty. No review. No suspension. This was after he attacked Bob Probert in the previous period. He was penalized for that. Likewise Belfour. Too bad he goes down so much! :-)
I just bought a BJ-200 printer a couple of days ago. I compared it to the sample print of an HP DeskJet 500 and knew that the HP wasn't for me. The BJ-200 is pretty fast and really prints with good quality. I can compare it with the HP LaserJet IIID PostScript and they look almost identical ( depending on the kind of paper). I don't have problems with the ink not being dry, it seems to dry VERY fast. Probably within a second. Since Canon is giving a $50 rebate until the end of May, it is really a good buy. --- Sean Eckton Computer Support Representative College of Fine Arts and Communications D-406 HFAC Brigham Young University Provo, UT 84602 (801)378-3292
Some one asked me recently why they when they used XQueryBestCursor to see if they could create of a given size it seemed to imply they could, but the server did not create cursors of that size. Investigation showed that some X servers will happily return any size up to the size of the root window, while others return some fixed limit of more reasonable size. The interesting thing to me is that the same server binary acts differently on different hardware - a Sun4 with a cg2 will claim cursors up to root window size are OK, while a Sun4 with a cg6 will stop at 32x32. So far I've also seen this behavior on NCD and Phase-X X terminals and have been told it also occurs on HPs. Actually, the NCD is even more liberal - sizes much larger then the root winodw are gladly returned as OK. Is XQueryBestCursor semi-broken or is this behavior correct? I'd really like to see a 2000x2000 cursor!
I don't think that's a problem. My face is quite oily too. I had a moderate acne problem for many years. I then found that if I vigorously scrub my face with a nail brush and soap (Irish Spring) twice a day the acne was not a problem. I can still leave a pretty health nose print on a mirror after 45 min (don't ask ;->) but acne is not a real problem anymore.
Please, PAY ATTENTION. I, and others, were referring to TOTAL HOMICIDE DEATHS, NOT JUST HANDGUN HOMICIDES. In terms of how likely are you to be killed, (regardless of how it's done, 'cause DEAD is DEAD), the UK has a higher homicide rate. Period. You are more likely to be killed in the UK than in Switzerland. If you were to be murdered with a handgun, then yes, Switzerland has a higher rate. But, to belabor the point, you are MORE LIKELY to be murdered in the UK. In that sense, the weapon is irrelevant. The UK is more violent, period. Al [standard disclaimer]
I've been a member of the NRA for several years and recently "joined" HCI. I wanted to see what they were up to and paid the minimum ($15) to get a membership. I also sent the NRA another $120.
I won't even recommend books from my congregation. What you ask sounds attractive but it is dangerous. As a new Christian you don't want to be contaminated with other people's interpretation. Steep your self in scripture, and discuss with other christians. Read if your must but remember that what other people write is their interpretation. God has promised to give you light, so ask for it. Don't wait too long before attaching yourself to church. Just remember to always compare what they teach you with scripture like the Bereans did.
[...deleted...] Unfortunately, I think you've got it figured pretty well. I also ask myself the question "Why did they plan for so many months. Why was this so important to them? What was the government really up to? Why did they seal the warrant? Were they after Koresh or were they after the first and second amendments, among others?
Surprise surprise, different people react differently to different things. One slightly off the subject case in point. My brother got stung by a bee. I know he is allergic to bee stings, but that his reaction is severe localized swelling, not anaphylactic shock. I could not convince the doctors of that, however, because that's not written in their little rule book. I would not be surprised in the least to find out the SOME people have bad reactions to MSG, including headaches, stomachaches and even vomiting. Not that the stuff is BAD or POISON and needs to be banned, but people need to be aware that it can have a bad effect on SOME people. Lone Wolf
What are the main advantages of this method? I have seen it described, and the algiorithm seems a little bit long. I developed my own method, which requires that the points be in a counter-clockwise order, and returns whether you are looking at the back or the front, similar to the plane eqn method. It uses few calculations however, basically it is several comparisons. The only disadvantage I see is that it must be done after the transformation from view coordinates to coordinates to display on the screen, which means that a little more calculation isneeded beforehand. My method basically figures out whether the points that will appear on the screen are clockwise or counterclockwise. When looking at the back of something, the points occur in an opposite direction from the front, so merely by figuring out which way the points go, you can tell whether you are looking at the back or front of a 2d polygon. Has anyone heard of this method before? It is so simple, I doubt i am the first to think of it. Libertarian, atheist, semi-anarchal Techno-Rat.
McDonnell Douglas rolls out DC-X ... SSTO research remains cloudy. The SDI Organization -- which paid $60 million for the DC-X -- can't itself afford to fund full development of a follow-on vehicle. To get the necessary hundreds of millions required for This is a little peculiar way of putting it, SDIO's budget this year was, what, $3-4 billion? They _could_ fund all of the DC development out of one years budget - of course they do have other irons in the fire ;-) and launcher development is not their primary purpose, but the DC development could as easily be paid for by diverting that money as by diverting the comparable STS ops budget... - oh, and before the flames start. I applaud the SDIO for funding DC-X devlopment and I hope it works, and, no, launcher development is not NASAs primary goal either, IMHO they are supposed to provide the enabling technology research for others to do launcher development, and secondarily operate such launchers as they require - but that's just me.
store and reply of mouse and keyboard events -------------------------------------------- To produce regression tests or automatic demo's we would like to store all mouse and keyboard events produced by a user. It should be possible to filter the mouse and keyboard events from the server's queue an to store them in a file. This sequence of events, stored in a file, should be given to the server's queue as if a user is working. 1. Exists a tool that is capable to save and reply all mouse and keyboard events (where)? 2. Where one can catch these events to store them ? In our case the server's queue is on a X Terminal (HP). Where can we catch all events coming from a given server. If this is not possible, can we catch all events given to a certain client and how ? 3. Where one can send a stored sequence of events to simulate a user ? Is there a central dispatcher on the clients machine who manages all incoming events from a given server and how can we reach it ? Thanks in advance
I believe it's XtVaAppInitialize or something like that. --
Hi! I don't know much about Mormons, and I want to know about serious independent studies about the Book of Mormon. I don't buy the 'official' story about the gold original taken to heaven, but haven't read the Book of Mormon by myself (I have to much work learning Biblical Hebrew), I will appreciate any comment about the results of study in style, vocabulary, place-names, internal consistency, and so on. For example: There is evidence for one-writer or multiple writers? There are some mention about events, places, or historical persons later discovered by archeologist? Yours in Collen Andres Grino Brandt Casilla 14801 - Santiago 21 agrino@enkidu.mic.cl Chile
I've been told that Panasonic has uploaded some to Compu$erve, but I don't have a CIS account. I just use the Epson FX-80 driver myself, and it comes out very pretty (if very slowly) on my 1080i.
Yeah, there is absolutely no use for VLB except for video graphics. And no IDE could possibly take advantage the VLB, because it runs at 8 Mhz and 16 bits. Do people forget that the IDE was specifically designed to interface directly with the AT ISA bus? We've seen IDEs come out for EISA, XT ISA, and now even MCA, but at all times it was a 16 bit standard, running at somewhere near 8-10 Mhz. When you run an IDE off of the VLB, there's no way that you're running it at 33 Mhz, it would burn up. Of course same goes for SCSI, ESDI, whatever, none of them run at CPU speed. The only way to gain advantage with a VLB IDE is to hook it up to a caching controller. I suspect it would be much, much better to get a software disk cache instead, since you get write-caching as well. I've seen some Fuji IDE drives going as high as 1G.
I have attached a copy of an announcement I picked up during my trip to Moscow last week. I have several friends at the Moscow Aviation Institute who have asked me to post this announcement. (I have done some editing, but the contents is unchanged from the original announcement.) For those of you not familiar with the Moscow Aviation Institute, it is the leading Russian school of higher education dedicated to the training of aircraft and spacecraft designers. It specializes in airframe design, powerplant design, control systems, and power systems. Virtually all of the major former Soviet airframe designers (Tupolev, Su, Iluchine, Migoyan, etc.) were schooled at MAI. I had the opportunity to tour the two museums that are maintained at MAI. The aircraft include Mig23, Su 27, Yak 38, the cockpit of an F-111(!), among others. It was a fascinating and eye opening experience, expecially given the fact that the museum was, until a year or so ago, closed to virtually everyone. I also had the opportunity to see some of the experiments being conducted with plasma drive engines for future space craft use. If you have any questions about the Institute, or the program, I would be glad to try and answer them. The institute, and most of it's faculty have e-mail addresses. However, it takes about a day or so for the receiver to get the message. They are still a bit antiquated - but they are rapidly changing! Steve Emmett semmett@gmuvax2.gmu.edu ps please send any questions you have for me via e-mail. George Mason university has about a 2 week (!) delay in news feed delivery. ------------------------------------------------------------------- MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL AVIATION SCHOOL The aviation school "Poljot" (meaning Flight) is organized by the the Moscow Aviation Institute, the prominent Russian Center of airspace education and the foreign trade firm Poljot, well known in various parts of the world for their quartz and mechanical wrist watches. The course of studies will last only 50 days, but during this time you will have the unique opportunity: - to listen to intensive courses on the main aviation disciplines, the history and theory of techniques, and design of airplanes; - to visit and get acquainted with the world known Russian aviation firms - TU, MiG, Yak, Il and Su; - to meet and have discussions with famous aviation scientists, engineers and pilots; - to visit the most interesting museums of unique aviation techniques which were closed for many years to the public; - to see the International Airspace Show which will take place in Moscow from 31 August through 3 September 1993; - to visit famous art museums, historical and architectural monuments, theatres and concert halls; - to take part in sport competitions and have a great time with new friends. The Director of the school is Mr. Oleg Samelovich, a well known Russian scientist, professor, general designer and the Chief of the Airplanes Design Department of the Moscow Aviation Institute. Mr. Samelovich is one of the designers of the the Su-24, Su-25, and Su-27 The lectures are given in English, using a multi-media concept. The students are provided with all the necessary text books and literature. After the full course of studies are completed, the student will receive a special certificate of graduation. The cost of studies, including hotel, meals, excursions, theatres, etc is $3500. To apply for admission, send your application to: 109147 Moscow Marksistskaja 34 Foreign Trade Firm "Poljot" 274 00 13 (phone) 274 00 22 (FAX) 411989 POLEX SU (telex) In your application, include your full name, address, date and place of birth. In addition, include complete passport information, as well as a description of your education. Upon receipt of this information, "Poljot" will immediately forward to you an official invitation for obtaining a Russian entrance visa as well as details on payment. Should you require additional information, please do not hesitate to contact us. (signed) O. Samelovich ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- Steve Emmett semmett@gmuvax2.gmu.edu
Can we assume from this statement that you are >unequivocally< saying that AMORC is not a spin off of OTO? .. and that in fact, OTO may well be a spin off of AMORC?? i would be quite interested in hearing what evidence you have to support this claim. Study Smarter, not Harder! :-)
Which GERMAN satellite channels will show the World Championship action from Dusseldorf & Munich? Someone please tell me (must be able to root for the Red Machine)! Thank you
So if we subvert one of the two escrow agents, we only have a 40-bit space to search through... 2^40 doesn't sound that big - is digital telephony subject to a known plaintext attack? In which case half the key seems to be all that is needed, and the two agent escrow arrangement is pointless. Of course, the unknown algorithm might turn gaps in speech into pseudo-random sequences, or there might be some magic involved, or...
Hi, I just got a problem, I have a cheapo 2400bps modem which I use to connect to my university, but I get too much garbage on the screen. I do know it's because the noise in the line (I can actually hear it). So my question is will an error correction protocol help to eliminate this garbage?, my modem doesn't have any of these on hardware, can a software implemented protocol do the trick? Thanks. Juan Carlos Leon
Hello, recently I have been printing out a lot of files on school's laser printer and feeling guilty about it. Please help me by showing me where to get a post script viewer for X-windows. Thank you for your help.
But, the goal need not be a subjective one. For instance, the goal of natural morality is the propogation of a species, perhaps. It wasn't really until the more intelligent animals came along that some revisions to this were necessary. Intelligent animals have different needs than the others, and hence a morality suited to them must be a bit more complicated than "the law of the jungle." I don't think that self-actualization is so subjective as you might think. And, by objectivity, I am assuming that the ideals of any such system could be carried out completely.
There is a library of map projections in: charon.er.usgs.gov in
> :Thousands? Tens of thousands? Do some arithmetic, please... Skipjack > :has 2^80 possible keys. > > We don't yet know if all 80 bits count. That doesn't worry me at all; they're not going to cheat at something they can get caught at. And key size is one of the things that can be verified externally. Feed lots of random key/input pairs into the chip, then try flipping random key bits, and see what happens to the output. We already know what *should* happen -- about half the output bits should vary, on average, from a 1-bit key change or input change. If they were out to build a weak cryptosystem, it might be the case that some of the bits are much less powerful than others, in the sense that they only enter into the encryption very late in the game. By contrast, DES was designed to use each key bit as early as possible; the 50% output change rate appears as early as round 5. Again, though, I don't think NSA is going to cheat that crudely; they're likely to get caught. Consider a cryptosytem that starts out by XORing bits 23 and 47, and not using either of these bits except through this XOR. This system makes early use of every bit. but an exhaustive key search would now only have 2^79 keys to search. Your test by varying single key bits wouldn't turn up anything interesting. Remember that they've promised to let a committee of outside experts see the cryptosystem design. If you assume something DES-like, a biased subkey generation schedule will stick out like a sore thumb. The algorithm I suggest above would stick out like a sore thumb, but I'm sure I could design a system with a more subtle key redundancy which was well-hidden, but would still make an exhaustive key search take far less than 2^80 encryptions. I don't believe your claim that the real keysize can be verified externally.
1992-93 Los Angeles Kings notes and game reports. ------------------------------------------------- Kings 6 @ Calgary Flames 3 - 04/18/93 The third place Kings opened the 1993 Stanley Cup Playoffs in Calgary, against the second place Flames and came out with an impressive 6-3 victory in front of a non-sellout crowd of 18,605 at the Saddledome in Calgary. Symthe Division playoff hockey this was. Both teams seemed a bit tense in the opening period though the Kings scored off the opening face-off. The Kings got into the flow of the game much earlier than the Flames as they played out- standing team defense. It took the Flames 9:45 of the first period to record their first shot on goal. The Kings, ranked 16th of the 16 playoff teams on penalty killing, shut down the Flames. The Flames went 0-8 on the power play and could record only 8 shot on goal in those 8 opportunities. The Kings had their problems on the power play, yet they did manager to score 2 goals in 10 tries. The Kings forwards back-checked while the defense stood the Flames up at the blue line, allowing the Kings to take took the home ice advantage away from the Flames. Rob Blake missed the game due to the lower back contusion but is ex- pected to be in the lineup on Wednesday. Wayne Gretzky suffered a charlie horse in his right leg. He took a few shifts in the second period before retiring to the dressing room for the rest of the game. Interviewed on the radio this morning, he stated that he was fine and would be in the lineup on Wednesday. 1st period: 1-0. The Kings got things started right off the opening face-off. Gretzky won the draw with the puck going to Sydor. He crossed center ice and slapped the puck into the Flames zone and behind the net. The puck carried around to the far side where Robitaille wacked at it and the rebound bounced to Sandstrom. He put the puck behind the Flames net where Gretzky picked it up. Gretzky set up in 'his office', moved to the near side and passed into the near circle where Sydor had moved in. Sydor, who got the puck between the face-off dot and the hash mark, shot off the pass, beating Vernon low and between the legs. Millen and Fleury went off at 4:57. Skrudland went off at 12:25 but the Kings failed to convert. Carson went off at 14:53 and the Flames failed to convert. Dahlquist went off at 18:34 and Dahl went off at 19:30, giving the Kings a 30 second 5on3 which they failed to convert. The Kings recorded 2 goal posts in the period. 2nd period: The Kings opened with a 5on3 carried over from the 1st period which they failed to convert on. With 6 seconds left in the 5on4, Vernon put a bouncing puck into the stands and received a delay of game. 1-1. Calgary evened the score on the ensuing Kings power play. Kurri, with the puck in the neutral zone, tried to put the puck into the Flames zone but it hit the stick of Fleury and bounced to Suter at the Flames blue line. Suter skated down the near wing and into the Kings zone. He faked a shot at the circle and skated around Kurri. As he cut thorugh the crease, he got Hrudey to go with him and he put the puck behind Hrudey, on his stick side for a short hander. 2-1. The Kings reclaimed the lead 25 seconds later on the same power play. Shuchuk, in the far circle passed to Sydor at the top of the slot and headed for the net. Sydors shot hit Shuchuk in the back and dropped into the low slot where 2 Kings (Shuchuk and Granato) were being checked by 3 Flames. Carson came from the far corner, picked up the loose puck and snapped a wrist shot between the legs of Vernon from 5 feet above the crease. 3-1. The Kings widened their lead just 24 seconds later. Rychel was checked off the puck at the Flames blue line. Taylor picked up the puck and sent a pass cross the slot to Huddy. Huddy shot off the pass, from the near face-off dot, beating a diving Vernon on the glove side. 4-1. 2:59 later, the Kings had a 3 goal lead. McSorley took a shot form the near point that hit a Flame and deflected towards the boards. Marty got his own rebound, skated to the bottom of the circle and sent a pass into the low slot that hit Dahlquist on the leg and deflected past the stick of Vernon. Skrudland went off at 10:53 but the Kings could not convert. Sydor went off at 12:35 and Watters went off at 14:40, giving the Flames a 5 second 5-3 but they failed to convert. McSorley went off at 17:19 and the Flames had 3 consecutive power plays but the Flames killed it themselves when Suter went off for high sticking at 17:31. Sandstrom went off at 18:03 to close out the period. The Kings hit 3 goal post in the period. 3rd period: The Kings used the phrase "Initiate, not retaliate" and it was very evident here in the 3rd period as the Kings continued to pound the body and the Flames continued to take bad penalties to take themselves out of the game. 5-1. The Kings extended their lead to 4 goals at the 1:06 mark. The Kings shot the puck into the near corner of the Flames zone. Vernon went behind the net to cut off the puck but he could not control it. Donnelly, who was behind him, wacked at the puck, sending it into the low slot. As Vernon slid back in to the crease, Granato got a shot that hit a Flame and bounced to the left of the net where Millen fired the rebound behind Vernon. Sydor went off at 1:24; Nieuwendyk went off at 3:22 as the teams skated 4 on 4. 5-2. Otto, skating down the far side, stepped around McSorley, cut to the net and passed to Dahlquist in the low slot. Dahlquist cut through the top of the crease and put the puck in under a diving Hrudey. Carson and Rychel came in on a 2-1. When Carson passed across to Rychel, Fleury tripped Rychel with no call. The puck got shoveled into the far corner where Fleury knocked Rychel down and checked him from behind into the boards, drawing a 5-minute major and a game misconduct at the 6:08 mark. Unfortunately, the Kings squandered the 5 minute power play when Granato (at 6:44) and Watters (at 8:19) took penalties. 5-3. The Flames closed to within 2 at the 8:47 mark. MacInnis, at the near point, passed to Yawney at the far point. He took a few strides towards the net, wound up and drove a shot off the near post and in over the glove of Hrudey. The play started on another faceoff that the Kings lost. Timeout - LA. 6-3. MacInnis took a penalty at 9:56 and the Kings converted on the power play to seal the victory. Sandstrom, skating down the far wing in the Flames zone cut towards the back of the net. Just as he crossed the goal line, he passed the puck into the low slot, on the far side, to Carson who shot off the pass, beating Vernon on the ice, stick side. At the 16:17 mark, Skrudland went off for slashing and Stern went crazy as he went after Shuchuk. Stern wound up with a double minor for roughing, a single minor for cross checking and a 10 minute misconduct, and he took the Flames right out of the game. On the plus side: The Kings, for the most part, played very disciplined hockey as they let Calgary retaliate. The Kings played good team defense and excellent penalty killing. On the minus side: The Kings lost almost every face-off. This must improve or the Flames will surely get that power play back on track. Notes: ------ The Kings recalled Guy Leveque, Brandy Semchuk and Jim Thomson from Phoenix. Wayne Gretzkys 1st period assist was his 307th career playoff point. The Kings entered the game 24th in the league in shots per game against, giving the opposing team an average of 34.4 shots per game. Flames goaltender Mike Vernon entered the game with a 3-9-1 record in afternoon games. The Flames entered the game with a 34% success rate on the power play over their last 9 games. The teams were 3-3-1 against each other in the regular season. Playoffs: Campbell Conference: Smythe Division: LA 6 @ CAL 3 LA leads 1-0 WIN @ VAN Norris Division: STL 4 @ CHI 3 STL leads 1-0 TOR @ DET Wales Conference: Adams Division: BUF 5 @ BOS 4 (OT) BUF leads 1-0 MON 2 @ QUE 3 (OT) QUE leads 1-0 Patrick Division: NJ 3 @ PIT 6 PIT leads 1-0 NYI 1 @ WAS 3 WAS leads 1-0 Records: -------- vs Smythe Norris Patrck Adams Overall ================================================ Home: 0- 0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0- 0-0 Road: 1- 0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 1- 0-0 ============================================================== Total: 1- 0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 1- 0-0 Box Score: ========================= Calgary 0 1 2 - 3 Los Angeles 1 3 2 - 6 ========================= 1st period: LA Sydor 1 (Gretzky, Sandstrom), 0:16 LA Millen - high sticking, 4:57 CAL Fleury - high sticking, 4:57 CAL Skrudland - interference, 12:25 LA Carson - tripping 14:53 CAL Dahlquist - holding stick, 18:34 CAL Dahl - roughing 19:30 2nd period: CAL Verson - delay of game (served by Ashton), 1:34 CAL Suter 1 (Fleury), 2:48 (sh) LA Carson 1 (Shuchuk, Sydor), 3:13 (pp) LA Huddy 1 (Taylor, Rychel), 3:37 LA McSorley 1 (unassisted), 6:36 CAL Skrudland - elbowing, 10:53 LA Sydor - tripping, 12:35 LA Watters- hooking, 14:40 LA McSorley - holding, 17:19 CAL Suter - high sticking, 17:31 LA Sandstrom - hooking, 18:03 3rd period: LA Millen 1 (Granato, Donnelly), 1:06 LA Sydor - hooking, 1:24 CAL Nieuwendyk - tripping, 3:22 CAL Dahlquist 1 (Otto), 4:23 CAL Fleury - major (boarding), game misconduct, 6:08 LA Granato - tripping, 6:44 LA Watters - interference, 8:19 CAL Yawney 1 (MacInnis, Reichel), 8:47 CAL MacInnis - roughing, 9:56 LA Carson 2 (Sandstrom, Robitaille), 10:32 (pp) LA Hardy - holding, 11:38 CAL Skrudland - slashing, 16:17 CAL Stern - double roughing, cross-checking, 10 min. misconduct, 16:17 Overtime: none Shots: ------ Los Angeles 8 9 14 - 31 Calgary 5 8 11 - 24 Power play conversions: ----------------------- For: 2 of 10; for the year: 2 of 10, 20.00% Against: 0 of 8; for the year: 8 of 8, 100.00% Goalies: -------- Los Angeles - Hrudey (1-0-0) Calgary - Vernon (0-1-0) Attendance: 18,605 Scratches: ---------- Rob Blake - back contusion Guy Leveque - numbers Lonnie Loach - numbers Marc Potvin - numbers Brandy Semchuk - numbers Robb Stauber - numbers Brent Thompson - numbers Jim Thomson - numbers Lines - Forwards: ---------------- *Robitaille - Gretzky - Sandstrom Donnelly - Millen - Kurri Rychel - Conacher - Taylor Granato - Carson - Shuchuk Lines - Defense: ---------------- *Huddy - Sydor Watters - Zhitnik Hardy - McSorley * denotes starting lineup Next game: ---------- Wednesday, April 21 @ Calgary Flames; 6:30pm Pacific Time on Prime Ticket =============================================================================== Stan Willis (willis@empire.dnet.hac.com) net contact: L.A. Kings
Hi! I recently switched my 3.5" drive to A:. The problem is, while I can read and write to both the new A: and B: correctly, I can't boot from a floppy in A:. I've checked the CMOS settings; it is set for Floppy Seek at Boot and Boot Order A:,C:. Once, I had a floppy that did not have the systems files on it in A:. I got a message telling me to put a disk systems disk in the drive. It didn't work. When I do have a systems disk in the A: drive, this is what happens: 1) Power-on and Memory Test; 2) A: light comes on 3) B: light comes on, followed by a short beep; 4) HD light comes on for an instant; 5) B: light comes on again, then nothing happens The light goes off, there is no disk activity of any kind, and the screen blanks. I can't even use ctrl-alt-del. Any suggestions. Thanks in advance.
Also photoshopII is out soon, has anyone got a date and any cofmments? Andy _______________________________________________________ | Andrew Leahy | aleahy@cch.coventry.ac.uk | Odd FROG | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You're right ... I'm sick of seeing all those white guys on skates myself ... the Vancouver Canucks should be half women, and overall one-third Oriental. (-; (-; (-; (-; (-; (-; And I'll gladly volunteer myself for the overage draft. (-; gld
The 68070 _does_ exist. It's number was licensed to Philips to make their own variant. This chip includes extra featurfes such as more I/O ports, I2C bus... making it more microcontroller like.
william@fractl.tn.cornell.edu said in response to Dave Borden: William: If the reason that this country still stands after 200+ years is that it uses military conscription to force young men to fight for causes that they don't believe in strongly enough to volunteer for military service in support of, then perhaps the fact that the country is still standing is not good news...
Jeff, If you have time to type it in I'd love to have the reference for that paper! thanks! -- kathleen richards email: karicha@eis.calstate.edu
Thats the file...
The amount of energy being spent on ONE LOUSY SYLLOGISM says volumes for the true position of reason in this group.
I just purchased a Viewsonic 17 and and Orchid P9000. In short, I am happy with the monitor and unhappy with the card. I have spent a lot more time futzing with the card, so that is what I am going to write about. The monitor is pretty. The moires I had under Simcity on my 17" Magnavox went away. It isn't as heavy as I thought it would be (45 lbs, I think). So much for the monitor. On to the bitch session and test results. In going with the modern trend, the Orchid P9000 card only supports 16 colors in 640x480 mode without a driver. Of course, this breaks any DOS program which uses SVGA modes (like most of my CD-ROMs). The Compudyne Whiplash VGA, Orchid Fahrenheit 1280, and Orchid F. VLB all share this limitation. Those are all S3 cards, which means it is an S3 problem for them (the P9000 uses a Weitek VGA chip which also doesn't support them). The Hercules Graphite card does seem to have these modes, but I didn't run the same test cases as I did on the other boards during the brief time I had it. It was able to print the splash screen for the Grolier's Encyclopedia, though, which the S3 cards just printed as hash, which is why I suspect the SVGA modes are supported. The supported resolutions really annoy me. You can do 1280x1024 at 75Hz if you tell the driver you have an NEC 5FG (they only have about six monitors listed plus 'Generic', and if you choose Generic you can't get any high refreshes at ALL). But at 1024x768 you are limited to 70Hz. Seems to me that the hardware should be able to support the bandwidth (if it can do 75Hz at 1280 it sure should be able to do it at 1024!). Higher vertical resolution was the main reason I bought the card over the Orchid F. VLB I currently have, and it will do 1024x768x70 Hz as well. The higher graphics modes all crash HP Dashboard. I just got off the phone with Orchid, and with the 1.1 drivers (I don't know what I have) he was unable to recreate the problem. On the plus side, their tech rep was as helpful as he could be and booted up the program on his computer to verify he didn't have the problem. He didn't know why they limited the refresh to 70 Hz either. The board is faster that the OFVLB for most things according to the Hercules Speedy program. This program tests various operations and reports the results in pixels/second. I don't have the numbers for the Graphite card, but they were close to half of the OFVLB (ie, slower) but that was running in a 20MHz 386, ISA, so the numbers aren't really comparable. The following numbers were all obtained using a 486, 33 MHz, AIR motherboard (UMC chipset), with 8 MB memory. I give ranges because the program reports the numbers as it computes them, and these tend to jump around a bit. K means thousand (not 1024), M means million, pixels per second Orchid Fahrenheit VLB Orchid P9000 Chip S3 805 Weitek 9000 DIB to Screen 182K - 190K 228K - 240K Memory to Screen 5.9M - 6.2M 8.4M - 8.9M Screen to Screen 14M - 14.8M 29M - 30.8M Vector, solid 2.4M 2.8M - 2.9M Vector, styled 55K - 58K 449K - 473K Polygon, shaded 1.8M - 2.1M 1.6M - 1.9M Polygon, hatched 6.9M - 7.9M 1.3M - 1.7M Ternary Rops 1.9M - 2.4M 477K - 520K Font 130K - 160K 46K - 55K / 1.2M The DIB to Screen test takes a device independent bitmap of a face and transfers it to the screen. I have no idea what is being done internally as far as conversions go. The memory to screen takes the same face and copies it to the screen, my guess is after it has been rasterized into a bitmap that can just be copied to the video display. The screen to screen test copies that face from place to place on the screen. Awesome! Interestingly, the solid vectors and shaded polygons show no improvement, and hatched polygons (ie, filled with cross-hatching) and Ternary Rops (whatever they are. Graphics operations like XORs maybe????) are a dead loss on the 9000. I give two numbers for the 9000 fonts, because I think they are caching. When the fonts are first drawn on the screen they are done fairly slowly -- 1/3 the speed of the OFVLB. Then the speed increases dramatically. Sounds like programming to a benchmark to me.... I make no claims that these numbers mean anything at all. Its just what I saw when I ran them on my computer. I normally don't write disclaimers, but this time maybe I'd better. My testing is totally unconnected with my work (I program under UNIX on Decstations) is done completely without the knowledge, blessing, or equipment of my company.
Hi... I'm new to this group, and maybe this has been covered already, but does anybody out there see the current emphasis on the environment being turned (unintentionally, of course) into pantheism? I've debated this quite a bit, and while I think a legitimate concern for the planet is a great thing, I can easily see it being perverted into something dangerous. As evidence, may I quote THE WALL STREET JOURNAL (of all things!), April 2 (Editorial page): "We suspect that's because one party to the (environmental) dispute thinks the Earth is sanctified. It's clear that much of the environmentalist energy is derived from what has been called the Religious Left, a SECULAR, or even PAGAN fanaticism that now WORSHIPS such GODS as nature and gender with a reverence formerly accorded real religions." (EMPHASIS MINE).
Hey, does anybody know anything about Leading Technology Computers?? I have a Leading Technology 6000SX and need a new mother board for it. Does anybody know where I can get one.
... deletions... same as the pattern if no sim was in place. This leads me to believe Many motherboards have jumpers to enable/disable the memory banks. Did you check that out?
Again, you missed Jesus's point. If you read the surrounding passages you would understand what Jesus means by "life in the world." But as is, you bumbled around, asserted your standard axiom that the Bible is bunk, and came up with the wrong idea. Also, you do not know exactly what Jesus means by eternal life. Brian K., do you expect to jump in the middle of the quantum mechanics book and understand Hermite polynomials having not read the surrounding material? Why do you such with the Bible? For an idea what Jesus means by the world, look up references to it in your concordance. For a good description, the whole Book of Ecclesiastes is game. For eternal life, check out John 17:3, John 3:15-16. You will find that eternal life is quite different than what you think. Eternal life starts NOW--an infinitely high quality of life living in fellowship with God. If my diety exists, you would not just cease to exist. Jesus talks of hell in Luke 16:19-31. The truth is, is that it is not some sort of magic spell. The truth is is that you do not understand it, and enjoy not understanding it. Wrong again. Christianity is supposed to be relationship. You do not even know what Christianity is and you are arguing against it.
I am curious if anyone in net-land has spent any time at any of the L'Abri houses throughout the world and what the experience was like, how it affected you, etc. Especially interesting would be experiences at the original L'Abri in Switzerland and personal interactions with Francis and/or Edith Schaeffer.
Please do...and let us know specifics. (lest I'm the only one on this). Mickey
Also sprach slegge@kean.ucs.mun.ca ... Two things: 1. Didn't the trade deadline pass two weeks ago? 2. The FLYERS would never ever EVER give up Lindros, simple as that. Go Flyers, Cup in '94... Mike
Oh, oh, we all know what's going to happen now don't we!
And thus, we come to one of the true beauties of baseball; these things, along with many others will never be separated. Almost *everything* in baseball is situational and interdependent. This is what allows us to carry on all the arguments that we have. If everything could be explained and balanced on a statistical basis, none of the wonder and mystery would be left. Why we might have to resort to just going out the ballyard and enjoy the game itself. --->Paul, feeling a little anti-stathead today -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length paula@koufax.cv.hp.com Paul Andresen Hewlett-Packard (503)-750-3511
The only way out seems to be death. --- " I'd Cheat on Hillary Too."
Does anybody have Bobby's post in which he said something like "I don't know why there are more men than women in islamic countries. Maybe it's atheists killing the female children"? It's my personal favorite!
For what it's worth (I haven't confirmed it), a Diamond tech-rep told me that ALL S3-based video cards use port addresses 0x2E0 and 0x2E8. If this is true, it appears that you canNOT use more than one S3 card in your system. Lance Hartmann (lance%hartmann.austin.ibm.com@ibmpa.awdpa.ibm.com) Yes, that IS a '%' (percent sign) in my network address.
It can be painless, so it isn't cruel. And, it has occurred frequently since the dawn of time, so it is hardly unusual. But, innocents die due to many causes. Why have you singled out accidental or false execution as the one to take issue with?
HELP, PROBLEM 486/33MHZ HANGS IN EXTENDED MODE TRYING TO ACCESS DRIVES A: OR B: , SOMETIMES IT WILL DO DIR , SOMETIMES WILL HANG ON ACCESS SOMETIMES WILL WHEN TYING A TEXT FILE. HARDWARE: AMERICAN MEGATREND MOTHERBOARD AMI BIOS 91 CONNER 85MB HARD DRIVE TRIDENT 1 MEG SVGA
I like Alomar. But I'd like to differ with your opinion about "a city which is likely to pour in the votes...". I attended many games last year during the balloting. I know that a great number of the attendees DID NOT fill out their ballots, but left them, beer soaked and torn on the floor of the stands. Toronto gets no more and no less votes than any other city for the All Star game. Unfortunately, this is not a one time thing. I've attended games during the last four seasons, and it has happened every time. The apathetic attitude to All Star ballots really offends me.
I personally will never forget Mike Schmidt's home run against the Expos in 1980 that decided the NL East. It was also his career high 48th.
Ok, it seems that everyone else in canada was treated to the REAL ABC telecast while only the people on ROGERS TV in Surrey BC were treated to two channels with Don "I stink as a Commentator" Whitman doing the play-by-play.
[...] ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [...] My Problem: I wasn't aware of the fact that I would need an *SCSI*-CD-ROM for Windows NT when ordering the Beta-SDK-Package. So my question: Is there any driver available that will allow me to use my Mitsumi (Non-SCSI) CD-ROM for installation ? If there is one, from which place (ftp-site) can I get it ? Many thanks in advance Stefan Kuehnel --- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- /\ Stefan K"uhnel | |/ kuehnel@rvs.uni-hannover.de |\ kuehnel@swl.uni-hannover.de (neu ab. 17.04.1993) | \/ Die oben wiedergegebene Meinung ist meine private und nicht die des RRZN, des LG RVS der UH oder einer anderen Institution.
The people who post to this particular newsgroup are either too cowardly, too arrogant, or too apathetic to discuss this issue since I have yet to see any discussion grace my computer screen. While it holds PARTICULAR interest to the African-American community, everyone has something to gain from discussing it. As any knowledgable person should know, Christianity has been used in this country to tighten the spiritual, emotional, & mental hold slavery placed on the minds, souls & hearts of African-Americans. This was most effectively done by the display of white icons of Jesus in slave churches to encourage the godly superiority of slaveowners. It wasn't enough that the slaveowner was your provider, but he was also your GOD, to be looked upon with unconditional love & loyalty and to be worshipped with great pride. But how culturally & biblically accurate are these icons? Pictures & statues of a Black Jesus have been found in European countries, as that of a Black Madonna. But what about Biblical physical descriptions of Jesus, His hair being compared to that of wool, His feet to that of brass? And think about the area of the world where all Biblical actions took place. I welcome all intelligent commentary on this important topic; flamers need not reply. Sherlette P.S. I expect at least THIS type of response: "It doesn't matter what color His skin was; His actions & what He did for mankind are what counts." This is true; I am not questioning this. But He walked the earth for 3 decades as a HUMAN; this part of His existence intrigues me. And as for saying that "it doesn't matter..." to a member of a physically emancipated people who is still struggling for MENTAL emancipation, believe me: IT MATTERS.
I tried to do so, but people told me that even if I used DISPKT, the packets would still be incompatible. Is this true ?
Re: Space billboards Even easier to implement than writing messages on the Moon, once upon a time a group of space activists I belonged to in Seattle considered a "Goodyear Blimp in orbit". The idea was to use a large structure that could carry an array of lights like the Goodyear Blimp has. Placed in a low Earth orbit of high inclination, it could eventually be seen by almost everyone on Earth. Only our collective disapproval of cluttering up space with such a thing stopped us from pursuing it. It had quite feasible economics, which I will not post here because I don't want to encourage the idea (if you want to do such a thing, go figure it out for yourself). Dani Eder
-> >Now let me get this straight. After a nice, long rant about -> >how people need to take personal responsibility for their -> >economic and social lives, all of a sudden 1960's radicals -> >(such as me, I guess) are responsible for poor people's -> >lifestyles? Tell me how that works--or do you think that poor -> >people are just too dumb to think for themselves? -> > -> >There are many reasons for the disintegration of the family -> >and support systems in general among this nation's poor. -> >Somehow I don't think Murphy Brown--or Janis Joplin--is at -> >the top of any sane person's list. -> > -> >You want to go after my generation's vaunted cultural -> >revolution for a lasting change for the worse, try so-called -> >"relevant" or "values" education. Hey, it seemed like a good -> >idea at the time. How were we to know you needed a real -> >education first--I mean, we took that for granted. -> -> The 1960's generation were the most spoiled and irresponsible. -> -> The Depression had create mothers and fathers that were determined that their -> kids would not want for anything -- going overboard and creating a nation of -> brats. -> -> Consider the contrast between two famous events in July of 1969. -> -> Apollo 11 and Woodstock. -> -> Which group had large numbers of people that could not feed themselves and -> reverted to the cultural level of primitives (defecation in public etc.). -> -> And which group assembled, took care of itself, and dispersed with no damage, -> no deaths, no large numbers of drug problems .... -> Wasn't Woodstock also called the biggest parking lot in history? They rejected society and went back to nature in their parent's cars.
Hm, do you think Dusseldorf fans would like it if their team joined the NHL? Or do we have to include Koln as well (Cologne to you Anglophiles) to make them happy?:-)
Why use a ground launch pad. It is entirely posible to launch from altitude. This was what the Shuttle was originally intended to do! It might be seriously cheaper. Also, what about bio-engineered CO2 absorbing plants instead of many LOX bottles? Stick 'em in a lunar cave and put an airlock on the door.
Here is a disturbing thought. Now, we no longer live in the days of big filing cabinets. We live in the electronic age. I asked myself, how big could the escrow database get? How hard might it be to steal the whole thing, particularly were I an NSA official operating with the tacit permission of the escrow houses? (We can pretend that such will not happen, but thats naive.) Well, lets see. Ten bytes of each escrow half. Lets asume ten bytes of serial number -- in fact, I believe the serial number is smaller, but this is an order of magnitude calculation. We assume 250*10^6 as the population, and that each person has a key. I get five gigabytes for each of the two escrow databases. Fits conveniently on a single very valuable Exabyte tape. This can only get easier with time, but who cares -- I can already hold all the clipper keys in the country in my pocket on two 8mm tapes. Admittely, they will think of safeguards. They won't put the whole database on one disk, prehaps. Maybe they will throw stumbling blocks in the way. This changes nothing -- they keys will be needed every day by hundreds if not thousands of law enforcement types, so convenience will dictate that the system permit quick electronic retrieval. At some point, with or without collusion by the agencies, those exabyte tapes are going to get cut. Dorothy Denning and David Sternlight will doubtless claim this can't happen -- but we know that "can't" is a prayer, not a word that in this instance connotes realism. With two exabyte tapes in your pocket, you would hold the keys for every person's conversations in the country in your hands. Yeah, you need the "master key" two -- but thats just ten bytes of information that have to be stored an awful lot of places. Come to think of it, even if the NSA getting a copy of the database isn't a threat to you because unlike me you have no contraversial political views, consider foreign intelligence services. You know, the ones that David Sternlight wants to protect us from because of the evil industrial espionage that they do. The French apparently do have a big spying operation in friendly countries to get industrial secrets, so he isn't being completely irrational here (although why our companies couldn't use cryptosystems without back doors is left unexplained by those that point out this threat.) Presumably, foreign intelligence services can get moles into the NSA and other agencies. We have proof by example of this: its happened many times. Presumably, someday they will get their hands on some fraction of the keys. You can't avoid that sort of thing. Don't pretend that no one unauthorized will ever get their hands on the escrow databases. We crypto types are all taught something very important at the beginning of intro to cryptography -- security must depend on the easily changed key that you pick to run your system, and not on a secret. The escrow databases aren't the sorts of secrets that our teachers told us about, but they are the sort of big secrets they would lump into this category. Imagine trying to replace 100 million Clipper chips. I cannot believe that the NSA or whomever it is thats doing this doesn't realize all this already. They are too smart. There are too many of them who have made their bones in the real world. I suspect that they know precisely what they are doing -- and that what they are doing is giving us the appearance of safety so that they can continue to surveil in spite of the growth of strong cryptography. I suspect that they realize that they can't put things off forever, but they can try to delay things as long as possible. Who knows. Maybe even some of the higher ups, the inevitable bureaucratic types that rise in any organization, really do believe that this scheme might give people some security, even as their subordinates in Fort Meade wring their hands over the foolishness of it all. -- Perry Metzger pmetzger@shearson.com
Time for a new discussion, maybe ? I asked in these groups some time ago what about the TC++/VE, and got no answers, so I decided to try. My brother who lives in the US bought and sent it to me, and I'm still trying to get used to it. Before I put my good/bad points list, consider I am a Turbo Pascal/DOS programmer, and sometimes try to make something in Unix with C (just some exercises from university). I used to make some programs in Microsoft C version 5 (!!) because we used some third-party libraries that required that. - I like Borland. It seems to me much more easier to use than Microsoft, specially the debugger. I tried to learn Codeview sometimes, but never felt confortable with it. - TC++ V/E seems very nice to create simple apps, like the examples on the ObjectWindows book. So far, no problems. Lets see next week or so, when I will try something more complex. - It works nice even in my "weak" machine 386/16Mhz, 6 Mb Ram. But..... - The manual for the Resource Workshop seems to be from a different version from the Workshop itself. Some of the windows that appear on the manual have more itens than in the manual. - I think I will run into trouble since I got this TC++/VE from my brother as a present. I didnt wanted to buy the Japanese version because 1) I suspect that the manuals will be in Japanese :-( and 2) I believe it will be far more expensive here. So he bought it as a present and sent to me, I send the registration card to the Japanese branch of Borland, but... who knows. So, I'd like to ask some questions for you all; - I know that there are some Microsoft guys around here in this group. Is there anybody from Borland ? Is there any e-mail address that we can contact the technical support ? Not for stupid questions, but to ask for example, why the RW manual seems to be different from the RW itself ? - Is there anybody else using it around here ? - Will the book of Petzold be useful for me ? I intend to use RW and ProtoGen to make the interfaces and then work on the code itself. Answers to my e-mail or comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools, please. Thanks in advance,
Hmmm. Care to be more vague?
The final stages of denial... I can hardly imagine what the result would have been if the Clinton administration had actually supported this plan, instead of merely acquiescing with repugnance as they've so obviously doing. I don't believe the chip originated with the Clinton administration either, but the Clinton administration has embraced it and brought it to fruition. Both of the major parties have what they consider excellent reasons for limiting your freedoms and violating your privacy, and even seem to feel that they're doing you a favor. If this is really surprising to anyone it means they've been willfully ignoring quite a bit of previous evidence. There's only one political party (not calling anarchists a party) that considers your freedom and privacy goals worthy in and of themselves. If you're voting for the big two, you're supporting a reduction of those rights (given their goals and their histories), regardless of whether you personally support that reduction. To paint Clinton and Gore as unwitting tools is really stretching things.
I thought I'd post my predicted standings since I find those posted by others to be interesting. Sorry this is after Opening Day. I certify that these were completed before the first pitch. :-) AL East 1. New York Yankees - the most (only?) improved team in this division 2. Toronto Blue Jays - Stewart and Morris? No way. 3. Milwaukee Brewers - they always seem to do better than I expect 4. Baltimore Orioles - Pitching, but Devareaux, Anderson, and Hoiles will drop 5. Cleveland Indians - Still don't seem to know what they are doing 6. Detroit Tigers - All key players but Fryman are another year past peak 7. Boston Red Sox - Any team with Clemens and Viola might be beter than 7th Al West - this division was the toughest for me to pick. Whoever of the top 4 gets pitching should win it. 1. Minnesota Twins - young pitchers seem to have best chance for success 2. Texas Rangers - I don't know why I have them here. Jose Canseco? 3. Chicago White Sox - Frank Thomas but no pitching. 4. Oakland A's - LaRussa is the best manager and would keep any team close 5. Seattle Mariners - I like Pinella, but don't see much here 6. Kansas City Royals - will score no runs 7. California Angels - will win no games NL East 1. Montreal Expos - good all around, plus no Wallach! 2. St. Louis Cardinals - (Jeffries + Whiten) >> (Jose + Clark), no Galarraga 3. Pittsburgh Pirates - youngsters will take up more slack than expected 4. New York Mets - some good players, still not a "team" 5. Philadelphia Phillies - they don't impress me 6. Florida Marlins - they know what they're doing 7. Chicago Cubs - they don't know what they're doing NL West - The 2 best teams in baseball are in this division. 1. Atlanta Braves - Awesome starters, but offense could be a concern 2. Cincinnati Reds - Would not surprise me if they won it all 3. Houston Astros - Any team that signs Uribe won't contend. Closer to 4 than 2 4. San Diego Padres - Plantier could be the Sheffield of 1993 5. Los Angeles Dodgers - better pitching than the Giants 6. San Francisco Giants - because the Rockies just stink 7. Colorado Rockies - will become the Seattle Mariners of the NL. NLCS Montreal d. Atlanta (Braves fans, yes I'm probably contradicting what I said in my NL West comment.) ALCS New York d. Minnesota World Series New York d. Montreal - Hating the Yankees will be fashionable again NL MVP: Barry Bonds, or maybe McGriff NL Cy Young: Jose Rijo AL MVP: Frank Thomas will deserve it (again), but Fielder might win it AL Cy Young: Roger Clemens (at least will deserve it (again)) --
# #Unfortunately, homosexuals don't believe in this concept of freedom. # #They believe that they have a right to FORCE people to hire them, # #rent to them, and do business with them, regardless of the feelings # #or beliefs of the other person. # # Allow me to point out that Clayton is once again unfairly lumping an # entire class of people, as if they all have one will. Having completely # dived into the abyss of believing that there are no queers in the world # who think differently from the child-molestation-advocating minority on # soc.motss, he doesn't even notice that he's starting a sentence with # "They believe" when the referent of that "they" is millions of people. # "...so few as to be irrelevant..." If you don't want to be lumped together as a group, stop insisting on being treated as a member of a group. # # Force people to hire? No. Require people to give them a fair # # look? Yes. # # #You give them a fair look. You decide that you don't want to hire # #the guy wearing the NAMBLA T-shirt. He files a lawsuit. You lose. # #Yes, such laws force you to hire homosexuals. # # Pedophiles, as well? Sexual orientation is not defined by the anti-discrimination law that was passed last year. Pedophilia isn't a sexual orientation? # And, Cramer, let me describe how you'd have it, and see if this is # accurate. I apply for a job at a computer company. They see I'm # wearing some article of homosexual adornment, I dunno, maybe a # "Silence = Death" pin or something. They turn me down because of # that. I can't do a darned thing and have to go look somewhere else. # Am I correct in assuming that you wholeheartedly approve of the # company's actions, or at least that you wholeheartedly support their # right to take that action? I wholeheartedly support their right to take this action. I wouldn't do it myself, unless it was something like the NAMBLA T-shirt. # How about: a black man applies for a job at a bank. The bank decides, # based on statistics, a black person would be more likely to steal # money, and denies the man the job. Would you support the bank's right # to this freedom? If not, explain how this differs. I support their right to do so (just like I support your right to engage in sodomy with consenting adults), but I think they are doing something wrong. I wouldn't do business with such a bank. # Clayton has repeatedly said that California's statutes classify # pedophilia as a sexual orientation, and that discriminating on the # basis of sexual orientation is illegal. # # If true, I'm frankly amazed. But I don't trust Clayton to give me # the whole story. Would someone clarify for me whether this is true, # what sort of discrimination Clayton's talking about (jobs? housing? # hate crimes?), and whether the effect of the law is really that # a daycare has to hire an admitted pedophile. # -- # Jamie McCarthy Internet: k044477@kzoo.edu AppleLink: j.mccarthy Here's the law that was passed and signed by the governor: The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 1 SECTION 1. The purpose of this act is to codify 2 existing case law as determined in Gay Law Students v. 3 Pacific Telephone and Telegraph, 24 Cal. 3d 458 (1979) 4 and Soroka v. Dayton Hudson Corp., 235 Cal. App. 3d 654 5 (1991) prohibiting discrimination based on sexual 6 orientation. 7 SEC. 2. Section 1102. is added to the Labor Code, to 8 read: 9 1102.1. (a) Sections 1101 and 1102 prohibit 10 discrimination or disparate treatment in any of the terms 11 and conditions of employment based on actual or 12 perceived sexual orientation. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 13 (b) This section shall not apply to a religious 14 association or corporation not organized for private 15 profit, whether incorporated as a religious or public 16 benefit corporation.
Rex Wang (wangr@vccsouth22.its.rpi.edu) spews forth stupidly: PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE tell me that you don't actually ATTEND Rensselaer, and that you just work for ITS. Or that this was tounge-in-cheek. Does this mean that I should be cutting off my alumni contributions, or increasing them?
: : :::Didn't Christ tell his disciples to arm them selves, shortly :::before his crusifiction? (I believe the exact quote was along the :::lines of, "If you have [something] sell it and buy a sword.") : ::This from a guy who preached love, deference of power to God and ::renunciation of worldly life in exchange for a life of the spirit? If ::Jesus did in fact command his disciples to arm themselves, I would ::take that as yet another reason to reject Christian doctrine, for ::whatever it's worth. Like most religions, the doctrine has good and bad in it. I would certainly reject the current implementations of the doctrine. : :No. The above is a classic example of taking a scripture out of context. :It's taken from Luke 22:36. But note vs 37; "For I tell you that this :which is written must be accomplished in me, namely, 'and he will be reckoned :with lawless ones'...". He then stated that two swords were enough :for the group to carry to be counted as lawless. So having more than the politically correct number of weapons was cause to be arresed and killed even then, huh? :Jesus' overiding message was one of peace (turn other cheek; live by :sword die by sword; etc). Yes, of course, as in Matthew 10:34-35 "Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to the earth; it is not peace I have come to bring but a sword..." : RJL
Archive-name: cryptography-faq/part07 Last-modified: 1993/4/15 FAQ for sci.crypt, part 7: Digital Signatures and Hash Functions This is the seventh of ten parts of the sci.crypt FAQ. The parts are mostly independent, but you should read the first part before the rest. We don't have the time to send out missing parts by mail, so don't ask. Notes such as ``[KAH67]'' refer to the reference list in the last part. The sections of this FAQ are available via anonymous FTP to rtfm.mit.edu as /pub/usenet/news.answers/cryptography-faq/part[xx]. The Cryptography FAQ is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt, sci.answers, and news.answers every 21 days. Contents: * What is a one-way hash function? * What is the difference between public, private, secret, shared, etc.? * What are MD4 and MD5? * What is Snefru? * What is a one-way hash function? A typical one-way hash function takes a variable-length message and produces a fixed-length hash. Given the hash it is computationally impossible to find a message with that hash; in fact one can't determine any usable information about a message with that hash, not even a single bit. For some one-way hash functions it's also computationally impossible to determine two messages which produce the same hash. A one-way hash function can be private or public, just like an encryption function. Here's one application of a public one-way hash function, like MD5 or Snefru. Most public-key signature systems are relatively slow. To sign a long message may take longer than the user is willing to wait. Solution: Compute the one-way hash of the message, and sign the hash, which is short. Now anyone who wants to verify the signature can do the same thing. Another name for one-way hash function is message digest function. * What is the difference between public, private, secret, shared, etc.? There is a horrendous mishmash of terminology in the literature for a very small set of concepts. When an algorithm depends on a key which isn't published, we call it a private algorithm; otherwise we call it a public algorithm. We have encryption functions E and decryption functions D, so that D(E(M)) = M for any message M. We also have hashing functions H and verification functions V, such that V(M,X) = 1 if and only if X = H(M). A public-key cryptosystem has public encryption and private decryption. Checksums, such as the application mentioned in the previous question, have public hashing and public verification. Digital signature functions have private hashing and public verification: only one person can produce the hash for a message, but everyone can verify that the hash is correct. Obviously, when an algorithm depends on a private key, it's meant to be unusable by anyone who doesn't have the key. There's no real difference between a ``shared'' key and a private key: a shared key isn't published, so it's private. If you encrypt data for a friend rather than ``for your eyes only'', are you suddenly doing ``shared-key encryption'' rather than private-key encryption? No. * What are MD4 and MD5? MD4 and MD5 are message digest functions developed by Ron Rivest. Definitions appear in RFC 1320 and RFC 1321 (see part 10). Code is available from [FTPMD]. Note that a transcription error was found in the original MD5 draft RFC. The corrected algorithm should be called MD5a, though some people refer to it as MD5. * What is Snefru?
And the Lord's servant must not quarrel; instead, he must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful. Those who oppose him he must gently instruct, in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth, and that they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the devil, who has taken them captive to do his will. IITimothy 2:24-26
I was having the same problems compiling X11R5 on a IPC sunos 4.1.3. If you compile with 'make -k World' it will not stop on the ld errors. As was stated in another post the clients with the errors still run correctly.
With yet another tax being floated by the Clinton administration to pay for new ``free'' social programs, I've really begun to suspect that the Canadians, long resentful of their place in the American shadow, brainwashed an American draft dodger who fled to Canada some time between 1966 and 1968, tutored him in the ways of Canadian socialism, awarded him with smokeless marijuana cigarettes when he got the correct answers, then returned him to the states (under the control of the domineering wife assigned to his case) to attain high public office and destroy the evil individualistic and free market forces in America, thus shaping America in the Canadian image.
/ iftccu:talk.politics.guns / jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu / 6:26 am Apr 14, 1993 / I suppose that depends on how you define 'vast' majority.... You are correct about 'majority.' Somewhere between 1 out of three and one out of 10 will at some period in their lives experience a violent assault. The risk is generally higher than emergency medical problems like heart attack and stroke. 'Vast' is probably too loose a term. With approximately 1,000,000 Americans using firearms each year, over a 30 year period we get (roughly, since some may have to do this more than once) 30 MILLION Americans with experience in using firearms for self defense. 30/250 yields 12 percent of the population. (Yes, I know that is a REAL rough estimate. We're closer to 270 million now, but many of these are minors and should be included etc, thus the percentage if anything is low.) At any rate, most minority groups in this range are not usually referred to as 'tiny' minorities, so I don't see how the other part of the group can be referred to as the 'vast' majority. A little more work might support a 'simple' majority of Americans never use, own or display a firearm. Certainly when you are talking about OWNERSHIP you are wrong. Nearly half of your fellow citizens own one or more firearms. Please provide a list of other means that are as effective. Then you might convince your local police departments to switch. Good luck.
Is there a FAQ on Cyrix 486DLC? Could anyone please repost it or email to me, if I missed it? Thanks in advance. ... Alexander Poylisher, Internet: apoylis@inode.com; FidoNet: 1:2603/106
I just had an idea. I'm not sure if its been done and I'm just remembering it unconsiously, but I thought that in dialog boxes and whatever in windowing systems, there should be a way to intuitivly set some things checked or unchecked or filled in a certain way. My idea: tape. You know, like putting a piece of tape over a light switch? Just an idea, if you like it, use it.
/////// And we thought the unfortunate people in the Branch Dividians were Brainwashed ?? They don't hold a candle to this guy...... D:d :wq
(oh boy. it's the [in]famous Phill Hallam-Baker.) } } } |>... but like "basic plus" cable, you have to tell them that you don't } |>want it ... for example, Hutterite colonies in western Canada are not } |>part of it (Mennon and Hutter were fundamentalist Protestants from } |>Germany whose followers left for the New World ... Mennonites are a } |>very diverse lot while Hutterites are similiar to the Amish). The } |>American idea being floated today gives you no option but to live } |>off the land ... } |> } |>>the selfish bastards that they are. unfortunately, that number has } |>>diminished recently, but once President Pinocchio gets through } |>>with us, i hope for a reversal of trend. } } Well here we have the right hoping for more selfish bastards. Pity they } don't look at what 12 years of the Regan/Bush "selfish Bastard" ecconomy } has done to the country. how about what 25 years of tax-and-spend, big government, institutionalized dependency, and out-of-control good intentions at others' expense has done to the country? } } Elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselves, } thats why they are selfish bastards. Bush and Regan gave tax breaks for the } ultra rich and paid for them by borrowing against the incomes of the middle } class. yeah, right. and Clinton is any different? please. he is just a better lia... i mean, politician. you think Slick and his gang of elitist socialist academics will lead us to the promised land? don't hold your breath.
I apologize for the long delay in getting a response to this posted. I've been working reduced hours the past couple of weeks because I had a son born (the day after Umar's article was posted, btw). I did respond within a couple of days, but it turns out that a a coincidental news software rearrangement caused postings from this site to silently disappear rather than going out into the world. This is a revision of that original response. [this was in response to the claim that "Rushdie made false statements about the life of Mohammed", with the disclaimer "(fiction, I know, but where is the line between fact and fiction?) - I stand by this distinction between fiction and "false statements"] I had not seen that claim, or I might have been less sweeping. You have made what I consider factual misstatements about events in the book, which I have raised in the past, in the "ISLAM: a clearer view" thread as well as the root of the "Yet more Rushdie [Re: ISLAMIC LAW]" thread. My statement was not that you had not read the book, but that you had not convinced me that you [inter alia] had. As I said before, if you want to defend your position, then produce evidence, and respond to the evidence I have posted; so far you have not. Of course, my statement was not directly aimed at you, but broadly at a number of Muslim posters who have repeated propaganda about the book, indicating that they haven't read it, and narrowly at Gregg Jaeger, who subsequently admitted that he hadn't in fact read the book, vindicating my skepticism in at least that one case. So far, the only things I have to go on regarding your own case are a) the statements you made concerning the book in the "a clearer view" posting, which I have challenged (not interpretation, but statements of fact, for instance "Rushdie depicts the women of the most respected family in all of Islam as whores"), and b) your claim (which I had not seen before this) that you have indeed read it cover to cover. I am willing to try to resolve this down to a disagreement on critical interpretation, but you'll have to support your end, by responding to my criticism. I have no doubt as to the ability of a particular Muslim to go through this book with a highlighter finding passages to take personal offense at, but you have upheld the view that "TSV *is* intended as an attack on Islam and upon Muslims". This view must be defended by more than mere assertion, if you want anyone to take it seriously. And I appreciate it, but welcome to the club. I am defending my honest opinion that this book should not be construed as a calculated (or otherwise) insulting attack on Islam, and the parallel opinion that most of the criticism of the book I have seen is baseless propaganda. I have supported my statements and critical interpretationa with in-context quotes from the book and Rushdie's essays, which is more than my correspondents have done. Of course, you are more than welcome to do so.
You can include postscript epsi files in xfig (encapsulated postscript info files). You can't actually edit the postscript file, but you're able to draw over the postscript file. There a eps to epsi converter: eps2epsi (perl program), Succes,
Ps.92:12: "The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree."
Yes, very serious. I claim that I can substantiate my statement that Rudman says he doesn't believe Perot was investigating him. You claim Perot was investigating him. If you will state that you were in error on this point, provided I produce the source, I'll go dig it up. Now give me one reason why I should go to the trouble if you won't agree to this? It is simple enough you know. But I don't have time to waste if you'll just blow it off with more of the tripe you usually post.
Here is a review of some of the off-ice things that have affected the AHL this year. ST JOHN'S MAPLE LEAFS PROBLEMS The St John's Maple Leafs sophomore season has been plagued by problems. On-ice, the Leafs won the Atlantic Division title but off ice was less happy. A strike by public workers has forced the leafs out of the Newfoundland city for much of the last half of the seaosn (since mid-Jan). They have played "home" games in places like Montreal, Cornwall and Charlottetown. Their playoff "home" games will be played in the Metro Center in Halifax, NS. One demostration got violent. Workers attacked a Leafs' bus and rocked it and broke windows in the St John's Memorial Stadium. Despite the problems, Toronto officials insist that the Leafs will return to St John's once the strike ends. =================================================== SENATORS SOLD The New Haven Senators have been sold by Peter Shipman to the Ottawa Senators NHL organization. They are the only Canadian NHL team with an American AHL affiliate, and have made it clear they intend to move the team to somewhere in the Canadian Atlantic Provinces. This sale and move has yet to be approved by the AHL head office, but is expected to pass easily at the general meeting in May. The quote in the story from Jack Butterfield made it clear the league was more interested in the stability of the AHL franchise accompanied by NHL ownership, rather than maintaining the 56-year history of the AHL in New Haven. The Senators are currently in serious negotiations with Charlottetown New Brunswick and are expected to move there. ================================================== DALLAS HELPS HAWKS STAY IN MONCTON After announcing that they would pull their affiliation out of Moncton, the Winnipeg Jets changed their mind. The Jets announced the move when they said that they would be slashing their minor league roster from 20-something to around a dozen; and they wanted to share with an existing AHL or IHL franchise. Enter the Dallas Lone Stars. Dallas agreed to supply the remaining 6 or 8 players to the Moncton franchise. Thus keeping the Hawks in the New Brunswick city. The deal is for one year and will be extended to three years if the season ticket base increases to over 3000. The Hawks only sold 1400 for this year. ============================================================ SAINT JOHN FLAMES OFFICIAL The Calgary Flames have officially signed a deal with the city of Saint John, NB. The Saint John Blue Flames will play in the 6200 Exhibition Center. The Flames still have to apply for an expansion frnachise from the AHL but are expected to have no trouble. ========================================================= CAPS FOLLOW JACKS TO MAINE Despite rumors to the contrary, the Capitals will follow the Baltimore Skipjacks to Maine. The Caps' current farm team, the Baltimore Skipjacks, announced that they would move to Maine and become the Portland Pirates. There was much doubt as to if the Caps would follow but they announced a limited deal with Portland. They would supply a dozen or so players including 2 goalies. They become the third team to announce a limited farm team along with Moncton and the Capital District Islanders. ====================================================== AHL GAME OF THE WEEK In early January, the AHL started a game of the week. The game, produced by, I believe, Pyman Productions, was televised across the Canadian Maritimes and northeastern US. The first few weeks saw two games of the week, one in Canada and another in the US but since then, there has been only one. Sunday afternoon and night games were covered and shown on Sportschannel NY and NE in the US and, I believe, Atlantic Sports Network in Canada (but I'm not sure about that). I am not sure if playoff games will be covered. ===================================================== UTICA GONE? SYRACUSE ADDED? There were heavy rumors that the Utica Devils will not be around next season. There were rumors that they might be headed to a midwestern city and that the city of Syracuse is trying to lure them. ===================================================== WHAT THE AHL MIGHT LOOK LIKE NEXT YEAR ONE OPTION ANOTHER OPTION Northern Division Southern Division ADIRONDACK RED WINGS ADIRONDACK SPRINGFIELD INDIANS SPRINGFIELD PROVIDENCE BRUINS PROVIDENCE CD ISLANDERS CDI PORTLAND PIRATES HERSHEY BINGHAMTON Southern Division ROCHESTER HERSHEY BEARS HAMILTON BINGHAMTON RANGERS UTICA ROCHESTER AMERICANS HAMILTON CANUCKS Atlantic Division UTICA (?) DEVILS PORTLAND ST JOHN'S Atlantic Division SAINT JOHN ST JOHN'S MAPLE LEAFS MONCTON MONCTON HAWKS HALIFAX HALIFAX CITADELS FREDERICTON CAPE BRETON OILERS CAPE BRETON FREDERICTON CANADIENS CHARLOTTETOWN SAINT JOHN BLUE FLAMES CHARLOTTETOWN SENATORS (move is unofficial as yet)
Does anybody know what Delaunay Triangulation is? Is there any reference to it? Is it useful for creating 3-D objects? If yes, what's the advantage? Thanks in advance.
Archive-name: space/constants Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:04 $ CONSTANTS AND EQUATIONS FOR CALCULATIONS This list was originally compiled by Dale Greer. Additions would be appreciated. Numbers in parentheses are approximations that will serve for most blue-skying purposes. Unix systems provide the 'units' program, useful in converting between different systems (metric/English, etc.) NUMBERS 7726 m/s (8000) -- Earth orbital velocity at 300 km altitude 3075 m/s (3000) -- Earth orbital velocity at 35786 km (geosync) 6371 km (6400) -- Mean radius of Earth 6378 km (6400) -- Equatorial radius of Earth 1738 km (1700) -- Mean radius of Moon 5.974e24 kg (6e24) -- Mass of Earth 7.348e22 kg (7e22) -- Mass of Moon 1.989e30 kg (2e30) -- Mass of Sun 3.986e14 m^3/s^2 (4e14) -- Gravitational constant times mass of Earth 4.903e12 m^3/s^2 (5e12) -- Gravitational constant times mass of Moon 1.327e20 m^3/s^2 (13e19) -- Gravitational constant times mass of Sun 384401 km ( 4e5) -- Mean Earth-Moon distance 1.496e11 m (15e10) -- Mean Earth-Sun distance (Astronomical Unit) 1 megaton (MT) TNT = about 4.2e15 J or the energy equivalent of about .05 kg (50 gm) of matter. Ref: J.R Williams, "The Energy Level of Things", Air Force Special Weapons Center (ARDC), Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico, 1963. Also see "The Effects of Nuclear Weapons", compiled by S. Glasstone and P.J. Dolan, published by the US Department of Defense (obtain from the GPO). EQUATIONS Where d is distance, v is velocity, a is acceleration, t is time. Additional more specialized equations are available from: ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/FAQ/MoreEquations For constant acceleration d = d0 + vt + .5at^2 v = v0 + at v^2 = 2ad Acceleration on a cylinder (space colony, etc.) of radius r and rotation period t: a = 4 pi**2 r / t^2 For circular Keplerian orbits where: Vc = velocity of a circular orbit Vesc = escape velocity M = Total mass of orbiting and orbited bodies G = Gravitational constant (defined below) u = G * M (can be measured much more accurately than G or M) K = -G * M / 2 / a r = radius of orbit (measured from center of mass of system) V = orbital velocity P = orbital period a = semimajor axis of orbit Vc = sqrt(M * G / r) Vesc = sqrt(2 * M * G / r) = sqrt(2) * Vc V^2 = u/a P = 2 pi/(Sqrt(u/a^3)) K = 1/2 V**2 - G * M / r (conservation of energy) The period of an eccentric orbit is the same as the period of a circular orbit with the same semi-major axis. Change in velocity required for a plane change of angle phi in a circular orbit: delta V = 2 sqrt(GM/r) sin (phi/2) Energy to put mass m into a circular orbit (ignores rotational velocity, which reduces the energy a bit). GMm (1/Re - 1/2Rcirc) Re = radius of the earth Rcirc = radius of the circular orbit. Classical rocket equation, where dv = change in velocity Isp = specific impulse of engine Ve = exhaust velocity x = reaction mass m1 = rocket mass excluding reaction mass g = 9.80665 m / s^2 Ve = Isp * g dv = Ve * ln((m1 + x) / m1) = Ve * ln((final mass) / (initial mass)) Relativistic rocket equation (constant acceleration) t (unaccelerated) = c/a * sinh(a*t/c) d = c**2/a * (cosh(a*t/c) - 1) v = c * tanh(a*t/c) Relativistic rocket with exhaust velocity Ve and mass ratio MR: at/c = Ve/c * ln(MR), or t (unaccelerated) = c/a * sinh(Ve/c * ln(MR)) d = c**2/a * (cosh(Ve/C * ln(MR)) - 1) v = c * tanh(Ve/C * ln(MR)) Converting from parallax to distance: d (in parsecs) = 1 / p (in arc seconds) d (in astronomical units) = 206265 / p Miscellaneous f=ma -- Force is mass times acceleration w=fd -- Work (energy) is force times distance Atmospheric density varies as exp(-mgz/kT) where z is altitude, m is molecular weight in kg of air, g is local acceleration of gravity, T is temperature, k is Bolztmann's constant. On Earth up to 100 km, d = d0*exp(-z*1.42e-4) where d is density, d0 is density at 0km, is approximately true, so d@12km (40000 ft) = d0*.18 d@9 km (30000 ft) = d0*.27 d@6 km (20000 ft) = d0*.43 d@3 km (10000 ft) = d0*.65 Atmospheric scale height Dry lapse rate (in km at emission level) (K/km) ------------------------- -------------- Earth 7.5 9.8 Mars 11 4.4 Venus 4.9 10.5 Titan 18 1.3 Jupiter 19 2.0 Saturn 37 0.7 Uranus 24 0.7 Neptune 21 0.8 Triton 8 1 Titius-Bode Law for approximating planetary distances: R(n) = 0.4 + 0.3 * 2^N Astronomical Units (N = -infinity for Mercury, 0 for Venus, 1 for Earth, etc.) This fits fairly well except for Neptune. CONSTANTS 6.62618e-34 J-s (7e-34) -- Planck's Constant "h" 1.054589e-34 J-s (1e-34) -- Planck's Constant / (2 * PI), "h bar" 1.3807e-23 J/K (1.4e-23) - Boltzmann's Constant "k" 5.6697e-8 W/m^2/K (6e-8) -- Stephan-Boltzmann Constant "sigma" 6.673e-11 N m^2/kg^2 (7e-11) -- Newton's Gravitational Constant "G" 0.0029 m K (3e-3) -- Wien's Constant "sigma(W)" 3.827e26 W (4e26) -- Luminosity of Sun 1370 W / m^2 (1400) -- Solar Constant (intensity at 1 AU) 6.96e8 m (7e8) -- radius of Sun 1738 km (2e3) -- radius of Moon 299792458 m/s (3e8) -- speed of light in vacuum "c" 9.46053e15 m (1e16) -- light year 206264.806 AU (2e5) -- \ 3.2616 light years (3) -- --> parsec 3.0856e16 m (3e16) -- / Black Hole radius (also called Schwarzschild Radius): 2GM/c^2, where G is Newton's Grav Constant, M is mass of BH, c is speed of light Things to add (somebody look them up!) Basic rocketry numbers & equations Aerodynamical stuff Energy to put a pound into orbit or accelerate to interstellar velocities. Non-circular cases?
Could you use some sort of mechanical chest compression as an aid. Sorta like the portable Iron Lung? Put some sort of flex tubing around the 'aquanauts' chest. Cyclically compress it and it will push enough on the chest wall to support breathing????? You'd have to trust your breather, but in space, you have to trust your suit anyway.
The Adaptec 1540-series use bus mastering. This means that the CPU doesn't sit waiting for data bytes, it can go off and do other computing - if you have an advanced multi-tasking OS, that is. DOS just sits and waits anyway. Why don't you start with the spec-sheet of the ISA bus first? :-) IDE was designed to plug into ISA virtually unaided - in essence, IDE *is* ISA, on a ribbon cable. Therefore it's specs are the same as ISA - 8MHz clock, 16 bit width, 5MB/sec. This is why I've concluded that IDE on VL-bus is a waste of a fast slot. The card's job would to slow the VL-bus transactions to ISA speed. Heck, that's what ISA slots do - I'll just use one of those instead.
I'm trying to create a button that has both a label and a bitmap using the MenuButton widget. Is this possible? Right now, all I get is the bitmap -- no sign of the label. Any help would be appreciated.
I have 1 4Mx9 70ns 36pin SIMM for Sale. It is in perfect condition. It will not work in my system because it requires 72 pin SIMMS. I would like to get what I paid for it. $115 + 3 for insured shipping.
[more about the Messier-Samuelsson incident] I agree with Rick that Ulf's cross check wasn't illegal. It was the kind of check you see a dozen times during a game without being called. Slo-mos sometimes have a tendency to make things look worse than they really are. Besides, if Messier can't take the heat, he should stay out of the kitchen. Well Matt, Mattias Timmander hasn't been playing with the MoDo elite league team yet (just the MoDo junior team), so I predict he needs a few more years here before he can join the B's. I saw him play in the Swedish championship game for junior players this year, and he played very well, a physical game, but not the kind of rough stuff that Ulfie does (I suspect you would like to have a Ulf type-of-player on the B's team too? :) As for Mariusz Czerkawski, he has had a *great* season for Hammarby in division 1. He scored -if I remember correctly- 93 points this season, and then we have to keep in mind that a 50+ point season in Sweden is considered *very good* due to the limited number of games. Mariusz is Djurgarden property (he was just on loan to Hammarby), so he will play in Elitserien next season, unless the B's can get him of course. I would say that Mariusz has to be one of the most exciting player to watch in Swedish hockey this season. Staffan
The Phillies were picked to be in first. Someone replied that the people who picked them were the same people who picked the Mets last year. My reply: Yeah, that may be true, but this IS the Phillies.
Tom Barrasso wore a great mask, one time, last season. He unveiled it at a game in Boston. It was all black, with Pgh city scenes on it. The "Golden Triangle" (Pgh's downtown area where the 3 rivers meet) graced the top, along with a steel mill on one side and the Civic Arena (I think) on the other. On the back of the helmet was the old Pens' logo (the really fat little penguin with the blue scarf) the current (at the time) Pens logo, and a space for the "new" (now current) logo. Tommy had designed the mask, and his mother (an artist) painted it for him. But while wearing the mask, the Pens got thumped by the Bruins. The very next game, Tommy was back to the old paint job. A great mask done in by a goalie's superstition.
> Hey guys! > I work on many stations and would like this name and current logname > to be in a title of Xterm when it's open and a machine name only > when it's closed. In other words, I want $HOST and $LOGNAME to appear > as a title of opened XTerm and $HOST when XTerm is closed. > How can I do it? [Apologies if I'm answering something already answered in the FAQ. Our news feed has been losing a lot of articles lately - so I haven't seen the FAQ lately to check.] Two ways: 1) When you start the xterm, you can use command line options: -n ICON_NAME To set the icon label -T WINDOW_TITLE To set the window title -title WINDOW_TITLE Equivalent to -T WINDOW_TITLE 2) You can use escape sequences to change things on the fly: The basic escape sequence is: ESC ] <P> ; <SOME_ARBITARY_TEXT> BEL where ESC and BEL are the ASCII ESCAPE and BELL characters, <P> is an ASCII decimal digit -- '2', '1', or '0', depending on whether you are trying to set the window or icon title, or both, and <SOME_ARBITARY_TEXT> is your desired label string. Hence, this command will set the window & icon title: echo "\033]0;YOUR_TITLE_GOES_HERE\007\c" To set just the icon title: echo "\033]1;YOUR_TITLE_GOES_HERE\007\c" To set just the window title: echo "\033]2;YOUR_TITLE_GOES_HERE\007\c" Of course, you may have to fiddle with exact syntax, depending on how the echo command works on your system and what shell you are using (I've shown System-V semantics under Bourne or Korn shells). [Hint for Sun OS users: use /usr/5bin/echo instead of /bin/echo or Csh's built-in echo. Otherwise you'll have to embed literal ESC and BEL characters in the string instead of using convenient octal sequences.] If you want your titlebar updated continously, say to show your current directory, hostname, or somesuch, then you'll have to see if you can coerce your shell into spitting out the appropriate escape sequences when it prompts for commands. Sometimes you can just put the appropriate escape sequence in the prompt string itself, sometimes not ...
Hi, I have a problem, I hope some of the 'gurus' can help me solve. Background of the problem: I have a rectangular mesh in the uv domain, i.e the mesh is a mapping of a 3d Bezier patch into 2d. The area in this domain which is inside a trimming loop had to be rendered. The trimming loop is a set of 2d Bezier curve segments. For the sake of notation: the mesh is made up of cells. My problem is this : The trimming area has to be split up into individual smaller cells bounded by the trimming curve segments. If a cell is wholly inside the area...then it is output as a whole , else it is trivially rejected. Does any body know how thiss can be done, or is there any algo. somewhere for doing this. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks, Ani.
How about posting one of her replies to your letters?
I'm currently looking for information about different graphics formats, especially PPM, PCX BMP and perhaps GIF. Does anyone know if there exist any files at some site that describes these formats ??? Thanks !
True, all you need to define is one statement that defined one polarity, and all the other states are considered the other polarity. Then again what is the meaning of nil, false or true :-) ? Cheers, Kent
ONLY if you weight Americans equal to SAlvadorans.
It has actually come up (or it will in a week or two) in NZ. I'll post the outcome when the trial finishes (which could take months BTW). Overall it looks like you can't be forced to reveal a password, if anyone can provide a convincing legal argument to the contrary (ie an actual court case) I'd be most interested... Peter.
Has anyone used the Number Nine (# 9) Video Graphics adaptor with Windows or Windows NT? What do you think???
Hi. According to my always questionable newspaper, there's a silver dollar being minted in Canada, the back of which commemorates the anniversary of the Stanley Cup. Now, I know full well what coins are used every day in Canada. I can easily fish a few out of my pocket change right now, in fact. My question is, since the loon is the only dollar coin that I know is legal tender, is this just a commemorative coin with no monetary exchange value, or what? Is it the sort of thing that only hockey buffs and coin collectors might covet, with no chance of it being circulated? If it is an uncirculated coin, what's the current cost and what's its potential value? Just curious. If no one knows, I'll take this to soc.culture.canada and rec.collecting (or whatever it is). Thanks again
James Sledd asks: 1. What is the nature of eternal life? 2. How can we as mortals locked into space-time conceive of it? 2a. If the best we can do is metaphor/analogy, then what is the best metaphor? C S Lewis's essay THE WEIGHT OF GLORY deals with this question. I recommend it enthusiastically. You might also read the chapter on "Heaven" in his book THE PROBLEM OF PAIN. He gives a fictional treatment in his book THE GREAT DIVORCE. I have found all of these very helpful. You might also be helped by the treatment in Dante's DIVINE COMEDY. Heaven occupies the last third of the poem, but I cannot imagine reading it other than from the beginning. I urge you to use the translation by Dorothy L Sayers, available from Penguin Paperbacks.
I heard third-hand (not the best form of information) that there was recently published results of a study on Multiple-Personality-Disorder Syndrome patients revealing some interesting clues that the root cause of allergy may have a psychological trigger or basis. What I heard about this study was that in one 'personality', a MPDS patient exhibited no observable or clinical signs of inhalant allergy (scratch tests were used, according to what I heard), while in other personalities they showed obvious allergy symptoms, including testing a full ++++ on scratch tests for particular inhalants. If this is true, it is truly fascinating. But, I'd like to know if this study was ever done, and if so, what the study really showed, and where the study is published. Any help out there? Jon Noring -- Charter Member --->>> INFJ Club.
Then not murdering would have no moral significance, since there would be nothing voluntary about it. You are starting to get the point. Mimicry is not necessarily the same as the action being imitated. A Parrot saying "Pretty Polly" isn't necessarily commenting on the pulchritude of Polly. See above. They do. I and other posters have given you many examples of exactly this, but you seem to have a very short memory. I'm saying: "There must be the possibility that the organism - it's not just people we are talking about - can consider alternatives." It's right there in the posting you are replying to.
: >> The death penalty was conceived as a deterrent to crime, but the legal : >> shenanigans that have been added (automatic appeals, lengthy court : >> battles, etc.) have relegated that purpose to a very small part of what : >> it should be. Hence the question is, do we instate the death penalty as : >> it was meant to be, and see if that deters crime, or do we get rid of : >> it entirely? I doubt the death penalty was supposed to be a "deterrent" to crime. If so, why doesn't every crime carry a death penalty ? That would be effictive wouldn't it ??? The death penalty is a punishment, much like a $50 fine for speeding is a punishment. Anyway, somebody with murder on the mind doesn't much care about the consequences. I think another problem is that people dont think they will get caught. If I wanted to kill another person, I wouldn't care what the penalty was if I didn't think I would get caught. If it was to be strictly a deterrent, it should have been more along the lines of torture.
This won't work if there is a checksum on the keys you don't know about. Neither will registering a clipper chip and then substituting a "counterfeit" one if the serial number contains a checksum. Chances are the government has thought of this, and "just anyone" won't be permitted access to enough of the internals to make a "fake" clipper chip. Chances are that the government has classified some details of the internals at a very high level, and manufacturers are required to observe security safeguards and clearances corresponding to that level. While not perfect, it would prevent Joe Hacker from rolling his own spoofing chip, since not many counterfeiters can survive a background investigation. Some of the more notorious self-styled dissidents here, for example, have already got their heads so high above the tall grass that they'd have little chance of getting a clearance. Of course it's not impossible that someone do this, but probably extremely difficult. Chances are there will also be very heavy criminal penalties for phony clipper chips, on some national security/classified info grounds or other, thus making the game not worth the candle.
CNN just claimed he bought 104 "semi-automatic assault rifles". And they say Koresh wasn't god-like... He managed to buy or build a collection of fully-automatic semi-automatic rifles... Quite a feat, I would say. ;-) They're still making charges of "sexual abuse" and such, or course. Nobody seems to have noticed that the Treasury department has nothing to do with sex crimes. Or maybe the feds have recently instituted a TAX on sex crimes... Yeah, that's why the BATF was there, looking for unregistered *guns* ("this is my weapon, this is my gun, this is for fighting, this is for..."). I also heard that they're claiming to be cautious because of Koresh's "heated ammunition stockpile". I seem to recall that smokeless powder tends to decompose at even moderate temperatures. I would be rather surprised, after a fire of that nature, if *any* of his "stockpile" is unexploded, or unburned. I seem to recall that aluminum powder is a common component of fireworks... The folks on rec.pyro could probably tell you. I think *anything* is legal if you have the proper license. If he had a "curios and relics" permit, I believe he could legally own handgrenades to go with his launcher. -- Charles Scripter * cescript@phy.mtu.edu Dept of Physics, Michigan Tech, Houghton, MI 49931
DEG has many german-born forwards in the team. In fact the majority of players are german-born. 1992-93 DEG had 11150 average in 11800 spectator arena. My Possible-NHL(European league)-site list: Switzerland : Berne, Zurich (Lugano and 1-2 others) Germany : Dusseldorf, Cologne, Berlin, Munich (Mannheim, Rosenheim) Sweden : Stockholm, Gothenburg (Malmo, Gavle) Finland : Helsinki (Turku, Tampere) Italy : Milan France : Paris (Chamonix, Ruoen?) Norway : (Oslo) Austria : (Vienna, Villach) Chech : (Prag) Slovakia : (Bratislava) Russia : (Moscow, St. Petersburg) Great Britain: ? Netherlands : ?
I saw a Lifetime Medical Television show a few months back on travel medicine. It briefly mentioned some drugs which when started two or three days before getting to altitude could assist in acclimitazation. Unfortunately all that I can recall is that the drug stimulated breathing at night??? I don't know if that makes sense, it seems to me that the new drug which stimulates red blood cell production would be a more logical approach, erythropoiten (sp?). Alas, I didn't record the program, but wish I had, since I live at over 7000ft. and my mother gets sick when visiting. Please let me know if you get more informative responses.
Buck Showalter just can't win. Bob Wickman's pitching the game of his life through eight innings (Yanks lead 6-1), so Buck decides to let the kid try and get his first complete game. Wickman manages to get two outs, but in between, four funs score, and all of a sudden it's 6-5, and Wickman just can't get the third out. So Buck goes to the bullpen, and Farr gets out the first guy he faces. Last night, Jimmy Key is pitching another in a long string of games of his life (this guy just keeps getting better!) through eight innings (Yanks lead 4-0). This time, Buck thinks, "I don't want a repeat of that near-fiasco with Wickman, so I'll give my bullpen some work." Steve Howe, whose ERA was 54.00 coming into the game, left with it at 81.00. He didn't do too good. Then Farr comes in. He gives up a two-run homer, and the Royals win it, 6-5. What's going on? This is already the third or fourth time this year that the bullpen has blown a lead. Farr & Howe have done it twice together, Monteleone's done it once, and I think even Habyan did it once. What's the deal? We finally have terrific starting pitching, so all of a sudden, our bullpen turns to shit! What's Buck gonna do? And what's George gonna do if this continues to happen?
Long time, no see. Andreas -- Andreas - Siperian Sirri Siberian Stint
: : I am a Mormon. I believe in Christ, that he is alive. He raised himself : [Text deleted] : : I learned that the concept of the Holy Trinity was never taught by Jesus : Christ, that it was "agreed to" by a council of clergymen long after Christ : was ascended, men who had no authority to speak for him. : If Jesus never taught the concept of the Trinity, how do you deal with the following: Mat 28 18 Then Jesus came to them and said, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Mat 28 19 Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in¹ the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, Mat 28 20 and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age." Also Jesus speaking: Act 1 5 For John baptized with¹ water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit." I believe that you may have overlooked some key verses, that are crucial to the Christian faith.
If the heading is true, Mr. Frank should be ashamed of himself. Nothing makes me gag more than people who don't respect the rights of others to voice their opinions. My idol Lenny Bruce once commented about "that asshole Time Magazine" when they advocated censorship of his material. Time actually sided with the cops' and their arresting of Bruce at his shows, whereby he routinely would say "cocksucker", then the cops would rush the stage to arrest him. My, how the times haven't changed... I can't help but think of how Lenny would be received in today's politically correct arena. Heck, I even support the right of neo nazis to speak their opinions and march down the streets. And before Mr. Frank or anyone else makes any wisecracks about anti-Semitism...I'm Jewish, a longtime member of AIPAC and the JNF, and have contributed over $1000 apiece to these fine groups. I'm a regular contributor to every pro-Israel group I can find, but I still support the right of people like Arf to speak up and vomit his propaganda. I want to know just WHO these people are !!! I'm basing all this on the assumption that Mr. Frank did indeed write to some sysadmin requesting Mr. Teel to be admonished. If this is not the case, I hereby retract these nasties directed toward him. If not, I stand against Mr. Frank and his trashing of the First Amendment.
How about 250MB/s for 64-bit VLB or 350MB/s for QuickRing {Apple's implimentation of VLB (Byte 10/92:132)} QuickRing is interesting in that it allows interleaving with other card so that the 350MB/s can be divided among many cards at the same time {NuBus 90 and MCA are about the only card interfaces able to DO anything with that kind of speed and even NuBus 90 ditzes around at ~30MB/s with a burst mode: 80MB/s. "MCA {Also called Micro Channel} IBM's 16 and 32-bit bus; "allows use of more than one CPU in a computer" (DCT) and anything can talk to anything, >>as fast as the two components involved can handle it.<< Never took off because it was incompatible with ISA and EISA. Planned to be bus interface of IBM PowerPC 601 (Carl Jabido).
Having met Peter Kingston (of WBT) some years back, he struck me as an exemplery and dedicated Christian whose main concern was with translation of the Word of God and the welfare of the people group he was serving. WBT literature is concerned mainly with providing Scripture in minority languages. The sort of criticism leveled at an organisation such as this along the lines of "ideological manipulation and cultural interference" is probably no more than Christianising and education - in this WBT will stand alongside the early Christian missionaries to parts of Africa, or those groups who worked among native Americans a couple hundred years ago. I think you need to substantiate these attacks as being a legitimate criticism of priorities other than spreading the gospel among underdeveloped people.
Let's start over. I'm not arguing about who is the better goaltender. I'd take Soderstrom right now. What I am saying is that Roussel can be a #1 netminder. The GAA difference is less than half a goal per game (less than that after last night), their save percentages are close, and their records are similar. And with that, I just don't see how you can label Roussel as the most disappointing player on the Flyers this season. You say Soderstrom played against better competition. That may very well be, but there is no way of knowing how Roussel would have performed in those games. Besides, against the better scoring teams like Pittsburgh, the defense is more keyed up than they are against San Jose. But I'm not just judging Roussel on that game alone. I've seen him play for the past two seasons in Philly and before that in Hershey. It's just my opinion, but I think he's got what it takes. Of course, I thought that about Mark LaForest, too. But I never did about Wendell Young. So I'm batting .500 in judging Hershey talent since the Hextall-era. As for the Rangers game, you can say he was saved by a mistake by the offensive player if you like. But Rou had his leg in position to make the save. If he didn't, it wouldn't have mattered if the Rangers player didn't get the puck up or not. It would have been a goal. On a breakaway that's what the goalie wants to do, take away as much as possible and force the shooter to beat him. I seem to remember Roussel doing an excellent job against Pittsurgh on opening night to give the Flyers a tie against the two-time defending champs. And not to take anything away from Soderstrom because he was senational in that game agains the Habs. But you can't tell me that a Montreal player had an open net to shoot at some point during that game and just flat out missed it. Mistakes, both on offense and defense are part of the game. Or there'd never be shutouts. Anyway, I'm happy the Flyers have both Soderstrom and Roussel and I'm not going to argue about it anymore. Besides, with the current 7-game winning streak and expectations soaring for next year, I don't want to piss you off to the point that you don't sell me any tickets next season:-).
Naw, the owners of WordPerfect are Mormons, and by Tony Rose's and Robert Weiss' standards, Mormons aren't Christians. :-)
Um, what? Eddie Murray was a superb first baseman for a *long* time. Winfield as produced consistently for almsot 20 years, and excellently on several occasions. Dave Kingman's *best* year was like Darryl Strawberry's *typical* year with the Mets. Darrell Evans, too, did a whole lot more than just hit homers, which *is* all that Kong did. Whom are you talking about? Yes, Eddie Murray is marginal, but that's because he's 38 years old. He wasn't marginal for a *long* time. Not. Smith has hung around for a long time AND fielded the position better than anyone else ever has. Yount stopped being a shortstop about a decade ago, in case you hadn't noticed. One of his two MVP awards was as a centerfielder. Like whom? There are many players in the Hall who aren't anywhere near as goos as the guys you're running down. That's already the case, by some standards. But the *bad* players in the Hall are all from the 20's and 30's. Recent picks have generally been excellent. No, but who cares? Was Stan Musial anywhere near as good as Babe Ruth? Not really. But he obviously belongs there. The Hall has generally had about the top 1% of major leaguers. As more players come through the game, more will be in that top 1%. And, yes, it's pretty easy to argue that Smith,. Yount, Evans, Winfield, etc. are in the top 1%. Dave Kingman on the other hand, was a liability throughout most of his career. Of course, Garvey *hasn't* gotten a lot of HOF press, so I don't know what you mean. As for Ryan, is his W-L better than Morris'? That's what a lot of voters tend to look at. And Morris *was* awfully good for a decade, and doesn't lead MLB history in walks allowed, either.
I looked for diab in my .newsrc and came up with nuthin. Anyone have any good sources for where I can read? In particular, I'm interested in finding out more about intravenous insulin injection for hepatic vein liver activation. (Whew! Wotta mouthful!) Anything that smells like a pointer would be helpful: newsgroup, mailinglist, etc.... Many thanks.
why does my keyboard not have a cents key ? C like to have my 2 cents worth or $ 0.02 (boaring) -David =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Also note (from <branstad@tis.com> and <walker@tis.com>): % whois -h rs.internic.net tis-dom Trusted Information Systems, Inc. (TIS-DOM) 3060 Washington Road, Route 97 Glenwood, MD 21738 Domain Name: TIS.COM Administrative Contact: Walker, Stephen T. (STW3) walker@TIS.COM (301) 854-6889 Technical Contact, Zone Contact: Dalva, David I. (DID1) dave@TIS.COM (301) 854-6889 Record last updated on 02-Jul-92. Domain servers in listed order: TIS.COM 192.33.112.100 LA.TIS.COM 192.5.49.8 And "dockmaster" is an infamous address ...
They don't have a conflict because technically LPT1: does not use IRQ7!. The Parallel printer processor (the actual number escapes me) contains a printer control register which enables the chip to transmit an interrupt to the interrupt controller as IRQ7, then onto the main processor as Int 0x0F. By default the parallel printer processor does not enable it's interrupt line therefore no Int 0x0F's will be sourced from the printer controller chip, thus enabling other devices to use the actual IRQ7. Note, this applies to COM ports also which by default do not route interrupts to the system bus, although COM's software usually enable this feature as it make monitoring COM port activity easier than polling the serial UART, thus probably getting the sound card slighty confused!.
This may be a stupid question, but how does the government know which keys to ask for? Will owners be required to REGISTER their phones, faxes, modems, etc., and inform the government when they are moved to a different phone number? Will there be penalities if the public does not do this? Will identification (the National Health Care ID, perhaps) be required when purchasing a Clipper-equipted phone? Or will each chip transmit identifying information at the start of a conversation? Identification which could be used to automatically log who calls whom? (The _phone_ company keeps records, but this information would be accessable by a well-placed van near a microwave relay station). This raises the question of how the two phones agree on a communications encryption key. Will it be something that is derived from information exchanged at the start of the conversation -- and hence derivable by an eavesdropper?
Hmmm...intersting (and long) message, but TWICE? Well, I don't care for libertarianism, but that is a philisophical disagreement, not a tactical one. Reform of existing laws would be an awfully good idea. You wouldn't believe some of the outrageous things the guardians of our two party system do to shut out dissent. ============================================================================ David Matthew Deane (deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu)
: Announce that a reward of $1 billion would go to the first corporation : who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year. : Then you'd see some of the inexpensive but not popular technologies begin : to be developed. THere'd be a different kind of space race then! I'm an advocate of this idea for funding Space Station work, and I throw around the $1 billion figure for that "reward." I suggest that you increase the Lunar reward to about $3 billion. This would encourage private industry to invest in space, which should be one of NASA's primary goals. -- Ken Jenks, NASA/JSC/GM2, Space Shuttle Program Office kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (713) 483-4368
Could some kind soul point me in the right direction for the FAQ list for this group. Thanks. -------------------- Saad Mufti Personal Library Software
Not quite correct. Biblical teaching expects us to celebrate the resurrection of Christ not once a year but every time someone is baptized. Col. 2:12-Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead." Rom. 6:4-Therefore we are buried with him in baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life." Those really want to celebrate the resurrection should by faith walk in newness of life after baptism. It is not necessary to celebrate a pagan goddess in the process. Paul answered your question in Romans 9. In v. 4 he stated that the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises were given to the Israelites. It is a package deal. He goes on to identify those who are true Israelites. Vs 6-8 makes it plain that the true Israelites are not those who are born that way but those who accept the promise of God. Paul continued to emphasize that he was an Israelite in 2 Cor. 11:22, then in Gal 3:29 he says that all those who belong to Christ are Abraham's seed, and heirs to all the promises given to the Israelites. The promises come with the law. It is all or nothing. Why is it that you only want to discard one part of the law? Certainly you would want your husband to be faithful to you. Or do you believe that adultery is no longer forbidden? Same law. BTW please give a reference for your statement that the Gentiles are only required to observe the basis commandmants. Could you list those please. Acts 15 deals with circumcision and the law of Moses which was added because of transgression of God's eternal law (Gal 3:19; Rom 4:15)
This is fascinating. Atheists argue for abortion, defend homosexuality as a means of population control, insist that the only values are biological and condemn war and capital punishment. According to Benedikt, if something is contardictory, it cannot exist, which in this case means atheists I suppose. I would like to understand how an atheist can object to war (an excellent means of controlling population growth), or to capital punishment, I'm sorry but the logic escapes me. And why just capital punishment, what is being questioned here, the propriety of killing or of punishment? What is the basis of the ecomplaint?
Oh, that must explain Matthew 18: 1) In that hour came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, "Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?" 2) And he called to him a little child, and set him in the midst of them, 3) and said, "Verily I say unto you, Except ye turn, and become as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. 14) Even so it is not the will of your father who is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish. Nice thing about the Bible, you don't have to invent a bunch of convoluted rationalizations to understand it, unlike your arguments for original sin. Face it, original sin was thought up long after the Bible had been written and has no basis from the scriptures.
They must be shipping that good Eau Clair acid to California now.
Hi... I need information on scaring. Particularly as a result of grazing the skin I really wanted to know of 1. would a scar occur as a result of grazing 2. if yes, then would it disappear? 3. how long does a graze take to heal? 4. will hair grow on it once it has healed? 5. what is 'scar tissue'? 6. should antiseptic cream be applied to it regularly? 7. is it better to keep it exposed and let fresh air at it? Please help - any info - no matter how small will be appreciated greatly.
I seem to recall that there was an article in Radio Electronics about this subject. In fact I have a copy of the article in front of me, but I can't find anywhere in the article a refrence as to what month it was in. The system they describe uses an automobile ignition coil for the high voltage. The article even includes some information on what kind of film to use and where to get it. Hope this helps.
Your statement is a common misconception, but it just isn't true. In the German Weimar system, the Chancellor was not necessarily the leader of the largest Reichstag party; the Chancellor was appointed by the President and generally was the leader of a coalition of parties who could form an effective majority in the Reichstag. Beyond that, the implication that Hitler rose to the Chancellorship because a majority of Germans wanted Nazi rule is false as well. Before President Hindenburg appointed Hitler Chancellor in January 1933, the German people did not show a particular desire to be led either by Hitler or by the Nazi party. These are the results of the March 1932 election for President, the closest Hitler ever came to direct election: Hindenburg 49.6%, Hitler 30.1%, Thaelmann 13.2%, Duesterberg 6.8%. In the runoff election in April the results were: Hindenburg 53%, Hitler 36.8%, Thaelmann 10.2%. So we can see that Hitler personally was supported by only about a third of German voters. Similarly, the Nazi party never received more than 37% of the vote in Reichstag elections. That occurred in July 1932. In the November 1932 election the Nazis *lost* two million votes and 34 seats, down from 230 to 196 out of the 608 in the Reichstag. Comparitively, the Socialists had 121 and the Communists 100. The Communists had gained 11 seats, and the German National party, which had supported the previous government, had picked up a million of the Nazis' lost votes to gain 15 seats (up to 52). I think the other large party was the Catholic Center party (I don't know how many seats they had but I think they were declining), and there were numerous other small parties. Thus the Nazi vote was on the decline at the time Hitler was appointed Chancellor. What brought Hitler to power was *not* the demand of the German people for Hitler or the Nazis to run things, but the inability of the other parties to put their differences behind them in favor of forming an effective government for the country. Germany did not have an enduring democratic tradition, and their parliamentary system lacked effective center parties that favored the interests of the majority of the population. Instead what they had was a number of small parties who were unable to put aside their own specific objectives in order to combine against the Nazis, who were out to end the democratic process. In fact, part of the problem was that some of the other parties with substantial representation, like the Communists, were also out to end the democratic process, but with different results in mind, and generally didn't mind seeing parliamentary democracy go under. Germany had already had a non-Nazi Chancellor with a majority coalition for five months while the Nazis had been the largest Reichstag party, and there certainly was no danger of a revolution in favor of the Nazis. If anything the Nazis were starting to get desperate because they had failed to get enough support to make Hitler President and their popular vote had begun to decline. Hitler was not Hindenburg's first choice to be Chancellor, not even his second choice. First, von Papen had been Chancellor since June 1932. After the November election when the Nazis *lost* seats, Hindenburg first prevailed on von Papen to remain as Chancellor. But there were intrigues behind his back and support for him was lacking. So then Hindenburg turned to von Schleicher, who became Chancellor for two months. Eventually he too was unable to hold together a working coalition of parties to oppose the Nazis, who refused to participate in any government that was not led by a Nazi Chancellor. Some of the Nazi leadership, particularly Gregor Strasser who was the #2 man in the party at the time, wanted to participate in a coalition government. But others, knowing the party's support was waning, figured that their best hope to gain power lay in undermining the democratic process. Nevertheless, the country was governed for seven months by Chancellors who were not Nazis, even though the Nazis were the largest Reichstag party. The failure of these men to achieve a working coalition was due to the inability of their coalition parties to work together. Here's how William Shirer puts it in _The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich_: The cardinal error of the Germans who opposed Nazism was their failure to unite against it. At the crest of their popular strength, in July 1932, the National Socialists had attained but 37 percent of the vote. But the 63 percent of the German people who expressed their opposition to Hitler were much too divided and shortsighted to combine against a common danger which they must have known would overwhelm them unless they united, however temporarily, to stamp it out. True, the German people supported Hitler after he became Chancellor. But that doesn't change the fact that there was not overwhelming support for him *before* he was in power. The German people were not crying out for Hitler to take over, no matter how bad economic conditions were. The leftist parties (Socialists/Communists) probably had more support in total than the Nazis. Hitler used the fact that others were passively or actively willing to see the government paralyzed as a means to taking it over.
There was a very useful article in one of the 1989 issues of Transactions On Graphics. I believe Maureen Stone was one of the authors. Sorry not to be more specific. I don't have the reference here with me. The article actually was more general than this, giving a way to decide whether a given (cubic) Bezier curve contains cusps, intersection points or whatever wierdness. The same treatment is also available in SIGGRAPH 89 course notes for the course called "Math for Siggraph" or something like that.
I am looking for software to draw a graph. I want to just give it a list of nodes and edges between the nodes and have the program come up with some reasonable positioning of it. Thanks in advance.
: {much deleted] : : : The fact that this happened while eating two sugar coated cereals made : by Kellog's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to : something in the coating or the cereals. Of the four of us in our : immediate family, Kathryn shows the least signs of the hay fever, running : nose, itchy eyes, etc. but we have a lot of allergies in our family history : including some weird food allergies - nuts, mushrooms. : Many of these cereals are corn-based. After your post I looked in the literature and located two articles that implicated corn (contains tryptophan) and seizures. The idea is that corn in the diet might potentiate an already existing or latent seizure disorder, not cause it. Check to see if the two Kellog cereals are corn based. I'd be interested.
: The Bible says there is a God; if that is true then our atheism is : mistaken. What of it? Seems pretty obvious to me. Socrates said : there were many gods; if that is true then your monotheism (and our : atheism) is mistaken, even if Socrates never existed. Jim, I think you must have come in late. The discussion (on my part at least) began with Benedikt's questioning of the historical acuuracy of the NT. I was making the point that, if the same standards are used to validate secular history that are used here to discredit NT history, then virtually nothing is known of the first century. You seem to be saying that the Bible -cannot- be true because it speaks of the existence of God as it it were a fact. Your objection has nothing to do with history, it is merely another statement of atheism.
Their Hiten engineering-test mission spent a while in a highly eccentric Earth orbit doing lunar flybys, and then was inserted into lunar orbit using some very tricky gravity-assist-like maneuvering. This meant that it would crash on the Moon eventually, since there is no such thing as a stable lunar orbit (as far as anyone knows), and I believe I recall hearing recently that it was about to happen.
Ok, so if everyone is cheating.. is there any tests that run some macro (to load a huge drawing, etc...) on the SAME machine that might then tell us what the REAL world results are? I mean, run the tests on the same machine with different video cards running word, excel, or something like that to see how fast the cards are? -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- swyatt@brahms.udel.edu !!! no disclaimer...I blame everything on someone else
Is posible to make copies of these photographs (or any other aerospace photographs at NASM) if you pay a copyright fee?
I posted this several days ago for Dave Butler. He may have missed it - my Usenet board has changed a little. Just in case he missed it, here it is again. Dave Butler writes... From: daveb@pogo.wv.tek.com (Dave Butler) Subject: Re: NEW BIBLICAL CONTRADICTIONS [Fallaciously] ANSWERED (Judas) Date: Thu Apr 1 20:52:11 1993 "I can basically restrict this post to showing the type of evidence Mr DeCenso has presented, and answering his two questions (and a couple of his spurious insults and false claims)." MY REPLY... O.K. DB... [By the way Mr DeCenso, you really should have looked in the index of your Bauer-Arndt-Gingrich Greek lexicon. You would have found that the word in Acts for "lot" is "kleros," not "CHORION" as stated by Mr Archer, and nowhere in the very large discussion of kleros in done the to "Theological Dictionary of the New Testament" by Bromley, is the meaning "burial plot" discussed. It discusses the forms of "kleros" (eg: kleros, kleroo, etc), and the various meanings of "kleros" (eg: "plot of land," and "inheritance"), but mentions nothing about CHORION or "burial plot." (Why does this not surprise me?) Thus it would seem to be a very good thing you dumped Archer as a reference.] DB later corrected himself... _____________________________________________________________________ From: daveb@pogo.wv.tek.com (Dave Butler) Subject: Re: NEW BIBLICAL CONTRADICTIONS [Fallaciously] ANSWERED (Judas) Date: Fri Apr 2 02:32:11 1993 I owe the group an apology. It is my habit to check my articles before and after their submission for errors. In my last article I stated: I was wrong. I admit that I do not have a handle on Greek grammar, and thus confused "kleros", the second to last word in Acts 1:17 as being the plot of land discussed. In actuality it is "chorion", which is the last word Acts 1:18. Unfortunately my Greek dictionary does not discuss "chorion" so I cannot report as to the nuances of the word. I don't know if someone else would have caught this, though I am sure that someone would be able to do so, but I have an aversion to disseminating mistakes, especially when someone else might use that mistake to prove a point" _____________________________________________________________________ MY REPLY... Vary noble of you Dave. I didn't want to have to go to x number of sources to show you wrong. (Although I am researching CHORION a little). DB... "Of course the only other reference Mr DeCenso has given is Bullinger. And Bullinger uses such ridiculous exegisis that when I accused Mr DeCenso of actually believing Bullinger, he replied that I misquoted him: of > my response to see what I REALLY said in my posting of this article. [Actually Mr DeCenso, you said that there was "benefit" to our argument, in that it caused to to rediscover Bullinger's exegisis. I did not realize that you would find such garbage beneficial, unless you were convinced by it]." MY REPLY... Thank you for correcting your restating of my points. DB... "and Mr DeCenso also replied: Thus I apologize for thinking that even Mr DeCenso could find such "drek" convincing....he should specify which parts of Bullinger he finds convincing and quit hiding behind a disingenuous mask of "This is what Bullinger believed, not necessarily what I believe." So which is it Mr DeCenso? Do you find the exegisis convincing or not?)" MY REPLY... One of my purposes in debating these alleged contradictions with you and others is to diseminate many different views of possible reconciliations raised by various Bible scholars and students alike. When I present MY VIEWS, I will clearly distinguish them from now on. DB... "Of course without Archer and Bullinger we find that Mr DeCenso has presented no Greek exegisis at all, and Mr DeCenso has made a big thing about my not referring back to the actual Greek. Thus we find this demand on his part for quality Greek exegisis to be a hypocritical requirement." MY REPLY... Good point. But in your declaring that these passages are contradictory, you have produced only superficial reasonings and observations. Nor have you dug deeper. I'm glad you have begun in this post. I will begin Greek studies on these passages in more depth than I thought necessary, as well. DB... "It would be appropriate to look at what Mr DeCenso has actually USED as evidence. Now we know what he claims for a standard, as he has stated it often enough: But are these actual standards he has used, or simply empty hyperbole. Let's see, he has used (a), and since he is trying to reconcile it to other passages, we see that he has also used (b). On the other hand he has presented no use of: (d) historical context or (e) historical content or (f) other pertinent historical info or (g) cultural context or (h) cultural content or (i) other pertinent cultural info or (j) grammatical construction or even (k) Hebrew and Greek word studies [remember, Archer and Bullinger don't count] Thus we find his vaunted criteria for exegisis is just empty mouthings." MY REPLY... Question: Do you find such criteria important? If so, do you plan on starting to use them to the best of your ability, or will you continue to present shallow observations (I don't mean this in a bad way). At this point in our _debates_, I have not found it necessary to present a total exegetical analysis of these passages, since we seem to keep beating around the bush and not getting into the core of the verses. I do not believe it necessary to use many of the above criteria to refute your arguments re: Judas in Acts and Matthew, but I will do my best from this point on to use several of the above criteria, since you desire me to. I hope you will also. It will greatly enhance our study of these passages. DB... "The only thing he has actually used, beyond the passage itself, is any other passage. Thus Mr DeCenso should be honest and note that most of his list is red herring and his only real criteria seems to be: MY REPLY... The reason is simple...you are mistating the passages. You claim that the PASSAGES contradict one another; I do not see the PASSAGES contradicting one another. (1) They may very well be complimentary, as many scholarly sources mention; (2) Matthew may not be presenting Judas' death, as you claim. But we'll look at your defense of this later. Also, the "reward of iniquity" in the Acts PASSAGE may not be the 30 pieces of silver in Matthew's PASSAGES. (Although you have a valiant attempt later at stating why you believe it is). At this beginning stages in our debates, we are laying some Scriptural groundwork, which will be expanded upon through deeper exegesis. DB... "Of course the only reason I can see to so drastically reinterpret a passage as he has done with Judas' death, is to make it agree with another passage so that both could be considered correct." MY REPLY... One of the reasons I have given a different exegetical view of the passages is that you seem to think the majority of scholarship is wrong in concluding these passages are complimentary. However, I see no problem in Tony Rose's explanation of Judas' death... _____________________________________________________________________ HOW WOULD YOU EXPLAIN THE INACCURACY BETWEEN JUDAS HANGING HIMSELF IN MATTHEW 27:5 AND "FALLING HEADLONG HE BURST OPEN" ============================================================= This question of the manner in which Judas died is one with which we are constantly confronted in our travels. Many people point to the apparent discrepancy in the two accounts as an obvious, irreconcilable error. Some have gone so far as to say that the idea of an inerrant Bible is destroyed by these contradictory accounts. However, this is not the case at all. Matthew relates that Judas hanged himself, while Peter tells us he fell and was crushed by the impact. The two statements are indeed different, but do they necessarily contradict each other? Matthew does not say that Judas did not fall; neither does Peter say that Judas did not hang himself. This is not a matter of one person calling something black and the other person calling it white. Both accounts can be true and supplementary. A possible reconstruction would be this: Judas hanged himself on a tree on the edge of a precipice that overlooked the valley of Hinnom. After he hung there for some time, the limb of the tree snapped or the rope gave way and Judas fell down the ledge, mangling his body in the process. The fall could have been before *or* after death as either would fit this explanation. This possibility is entirely natural when the terrain of the valley of Hinnom is examined. From the bottom of the valley, you can see rocky terraces 25 to 40 feet in height and almost perpendicular. There are still trees around the ledges and a rocky pavement at the bottom. Therefore, it is easy to conclude that Judas struck one of the jagged rocks on this way down, tearing his body open. It is important to remember that we are not told how long Judas remained hanging from the tree or how advanced was the decomposition of his body before his fall. Louis Gaussen relates a story of a man who was determined to kill himself. This individual placed himself on the sill of a high window and pointed a pistol at his head. He then pulled the trigger and leaped from the window at the same time. On the other hand, a person could say that this man took his life by shooting himself, while another could rightly contend he committed suicide by jumping form the tall building. In this case, both are true, as both are true in the case of Matthew's and Peter's accounts of the death of Judas. It is merely a situation of different perspectives of the same event. _____________________________________________________________________ Your only reason for rejecting this is, I believe, your attempt to discredit inerrancy. You haven't related how this is IMPOSSIBLE or highly unlikely. Here's what you said in an earlier post... _____________________________________________________________________ DB [quoting Tony Rose]... "The added text in this version is so heavy that, assuming you are truly so opposed to such tactics, you should find it not credible. But you seem to find Tony Rose's eisegesis satisfactory, while clearly rejecting David Joslin's." _____________________________________________________________________ Here, you discredit Tony's explanation based on what you deem too "heavy" for the passages. But you haven't addressed why you feel that way. You can say it's a vain attempt to reconcile the contradiction, but that doesn't tell me it didn't happen, nor have you shown why you reject that possibility. Questions: Is Matthew lying or is Luke lying? Or are they both lying? Or are either or both of them misinformed? Why do you think there is such an alleged contradiction? I do not think you have ever told us what you believe in this respect. DB... "At present though, Mr DeCenso only asks two questions of me: Actually I find question (1) to be a rather stupid request, but I will answer it because he now restricts himself to two points. First I would point out that hanging is a very efficient manner for ending a life. In fact it is a bit of a fluke when someone survives hanging (except in fantasy cowboy movies), and even then it usually referred to as an attempted hanging." MY REPLY... I work at an agency that investigates child abuse and neglect. Today, I got a call re: a child that attempted suicide by hanging himself because his mother is on crack. He failed in his attempt and is in a child's psych ward at a local hospital. Hanging attempts are not always successful. To assume that because most hangings are successful, this one was also is "begging the question", if I may quote you. [Last night, listening to _The Bible Answer Man_ broadcast, The Christian Research Institute's show, one of the scholars on there used several of these terms that you use. I am not all that familiar with them. The man on the BAM show teaches Comparative Religion and Logic. It was interesting] DB... "This is so prevalent that, so that to say a man hung himself with no other qualifiers is synonymous with stating that he killed himself." MY REPLY... Qualifiers are important at times, as we'll see in an OT passage I'll mention below. Does hanging ALWAYS have this outcome? Did Matthew, who is the only source we have re: Judas hanging himself, state that Judas died as a result? To say it's synonymous means it has the same meaning as. A boy (age 14) hung himself. But he lived. This is only one of probably thousands of documented cases we can discover. DB... "Now I am not alone in this thought; in fact, since Mr DeCenso so respects Christian scholarly (including Greek scholars) opinion, I did some research." MY REPLY... Thank you, Dave. DB... "Interestingly, not one of the Christian references I read, interpreted the hanging as being anything but a fatal suicide. ^^^^^^^^^^^ MY REPLY... [^^^ above, mine] So it's OK to use Christian sources to back your points? What about Tony's position. Do you value it or even consider it as a valid possibility? Also, is it possible that the sources you read may be wrong, or lying, or deceived in other parts of their books? If so, should we do, as we have done with Archer, toss them to the side and not value anything they say, including their "interpretation" of the hanging of Judas? I am sure _you_ would find some errors and maybe even some deception in those sources. You also noted they "interpreted" the hanging as meaning he died. Although that is very possibly true, do you find that in the text itself? Remember, that's the first criteria we must examine. DB... "This included: "The Biblical Knowledge Commentary" by Woodward and Zuck" MY REPLY... Which I own. It's a good source of commentary info. But not inerrant. DB... "The Interpreters on Volume Commentary on the Bible" by Laydon "The one volume Bible Commentary" by J R Dunelow "Word meanings of the Testament" Ralph Earl "The Abingdon Bible Commentary" published by Abingdon "Harpers Bible Commentary" by William Neal (Actually I could have presented many more as well) MY REPLY... I appreciate your doing this research, Dave. Maybe we are getting somewhere in how we both should approach these alleged contradictions - more in depth study. DB... "In each case, these references specifically describe that the interpretation of Matt 27:5 as successful, suicide and thus I can only conclude that the ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Greek word "apagchw"(ie: hang oneself) is translated as a successful hanging." MY REPLY... [^^^ above, mine] No you can't only conclude this, although, as Tony says, this was a highly probable outcome. But Matthew does not state death as being a result. The Greek word is APAGCHO. Matthew 27:5 is it's only occurrence in the New Testament. In the Septuagint (the Greek translation of the OT used at the time of Jesus), it's only used in 2 Samuel 17:23 : "Now when Ahithophel saw that his advice was not followed, he saddled a donkey, and arose and went home to his house, to his city. Then he put his household in order, and hanged himself, and died; and he was buried in his father's tomb." ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Notice that not only is it stated that Ahithophel "hanged himself" [Gr. Sept., APAGCHO], but it explicitly adds, "and died". Here we have no doubt of the result. In Matthew, we are not explicitly told Judas died. Also, there is nothing in the Greek to suggest success or failure. It simply means "hang oneself". DB... "But Mr DeCenso, you are more than welcome to disagree and show more reputable ^^^^^^^^^ Christian scholars that insist that the hanging was not successful." MY REPLY... [^^^above, mine] "Reputable"? You mean ones that have never erred? As far as insisting that the hanging was unsuccessful, that can't be done, even by me. ^^^^^^^^^ As I said in an earlier post... _____________________________________________________________________ Although I still agree with Tony's exegesis as being the most probable explanation regarding Judas' death (taking into account several criteria), I've recently noticed some new things in Matthew. MAT 27:5-8 Then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed, and went and hanged himself. But the chief priests took the silver pieces and said, "It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, because they are the price of blood." And they consulted together and bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers in. Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day. First of all, notice that the text does not say that Judas died as a result of hanging. All it says is that he "went and hanged himself." Luke however, in Acts, tells us that "and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his entrails gushed out." This is a pretty clear indication (along with the other details given in Acts - Peter's speech, the need to pick a new apostle, etc.) that at least after Judas' fall, he was dead. So the whole concept that ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Matthew and Luke both recount Judas' death is highly probable, but not clear ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ cut. ^^^ _____________________________________________________________________ I also wrote... _____________________________________________________________________ MY REPLY... Here we have a stickler, Dave, that I have to say I just recently noticed. Let's look at the passage in Matthew: MAT 27:4 saying, "I have sinned by betraying innocent blood." And they said, "What is that to us? You see to it!" MAT 27:5 Then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed, and went and hanged himself. MAT 27:6 But the chief priests took the silver pieces and said, "It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, because they are the price of blood." MAT 27:7 And they consulted together and bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers in. MAT 27:8 Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day. Notice verse 5..."Then he...went and hanged himself." Matthew does not say Judas died, does it? Should we assume he died as a result of the hanging? ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ What does Acts say? ACT 1:18 (Now this man purchased a field with the wages of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his entrails gushed out. ACT 1:20 "For it is written in the book of Psalms: 'Let his dwelling place be desolate, And let no one live in it'; and, 'Let another take his office.' Here we may have a graphic explanation of Judas' death....So, my line of reasoning to dispel your contradiction myth re:the "two" accounts of Judas' death is this...Matthew doesn't necessarily explain how Judas died; he does ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ say Judas "hanged himself", but he didn't specifically say Judas died in the hanging incident. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ However, Acts seems to show us his graphic demise. Therefore, there is no contradiction between Matthew and Acts re: Judas' `death'. ....... MY REPLY... ...we do know from Matthew that he did hang himself and Acts probably records his death. Although it's possible and plausible that he fell from the hanging and hit some rocks, thereby bursting open, I can no longer assume that to be the case. Therefore, no contradiction. Matthew did not say Judas died as a ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ result of the hanging, did he? Most scholars believe he probably did, but...? ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ______________________________________________________________________ I quoted all that to show that I highly regard the scholars' explanations, but in looking at the texts initially, we can't assume Judas died. It is, however, highly probable. ^^^^^^ DB... "By the way, while all agree that Judas died from the hanging, the books had different ways of dealing with the contradiction we are discussing. One simply ignored it entirely and simply referred back to Matthew's version as the correct version in both Matt and Acts. "The Biblical Knowledge Commentary" suggested the hypotheses that Judas hung and then when he rotted, his belly exploded (which doesn't explain his headlong fall), or that his branch or rope broke, and he fell to his death and his gut gushed out (which doesn't explain how a hanging man, would fall headlong rather than feet first)." MY REPLY... The outcome of any fall is dependent upon many factors...how high the person was suspended before the fall, any obstructions such as tree branches that may have deviated the fall, how steep an incline of rocky surfaces the victim fell upon, thus possibly rolling or bouncing of several rocks, etc. In a superficial examination of the Acts passage and the Matthew passage, we are not given a lot of info on the geographical specifics, but Tony in the above quoted post gave us some... _____________________________________________________________________ A possible reconstruction would be this: Judas hanged himself on a tree on the edge of a precipice that overlooked the valley of Hinnom. After he hung there for some time, the limb of the tree snapped or the rope gave way and Judas fell down the ledge, mangling his body in the process. The fall could have been before *or* after death as either would fit this explanation. This possibility is entirely natural when the terrain of the valley of Hinnom is examined. From the bottom of the valley, you can see rocky terraces 25 to 40 feet in height and almost perpendicular. There are still trees around the ledges and a rocky pavement at the bottom. Therefore, it is easy to conclude that Judas struck one of the jagged rocks on this way down, tearing his body open. _____________________________________________________________________ DB... Now truthfully, I do not see what is comforting about Matthew confusing the source of the Potter's field prophesy, but on the other hand the author is correct: Matthew does make that confusion. Of course a Biblical inerrantist who claim that every word of the Bible is guaranteed true by God, will have to thereby add one more contradiction to the death of Judas (ie: where the prophesy of the Potter's field came from)." MY REPLY... Please, when we are done with this study on his death, remind me to discuss this with you. DB... As to your second question Mr DeCenso, you ask how we could be sure that the money with which Judas purchased the land, was indeed for the betrayal, rather than some other source. I would point out that in Acts, where it specifically mention "the reward of iniquity" [Acts 1:18], it also specifically mentions what act of iniquity they were talking about (ie: Acts 1:16 "...concerning Judas who was guide to those who arrested Jesus."). Now I would point out that when the Bible describes an act of "iniquity," and then immediately discusses "*the* reward of iniquity," it would be rather inane to suggest that it was an action of iniquity other than the one discussed." MY REPLY... Dave, we are getting somewhere, aren't we! ACT 1:15 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples (altogether the number of names was about a hundred and twenty), and said, ACT 1:16 "Men and brethren, this Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus; ACT 1:17 "for he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry." ACT 1:18 (Now this man purchased a field with the wages of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his entrails gushed out. ACT 1:19 And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem; so that field is called in their own language, Akel Dama, that is, Field of Blood.) ACT 1:20 "For it is written in the book of Psalms: 'Let his dwelling place be desolate, And let no one live in it'; and, 'Let another take his office.' Notice that in verse 16, the word "iniquity" is not used. Rather, it states that Judas "became a guide to those who arrested Jesus". But the writer DID NOT stop there...vs. 17, "for he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry." What part did Judas play in their ministry? ^^^^^^ JOH 12:6 This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and had the money box; and he used to take what was put in it. JOH 13:29 For some thought, because Judas had the money box, that Jesus had said to him, "Buy those things we need for the feast," or that he should give something to the poor. So, now we know what part Judas played - he was a treasurer, per se. Right after Peter stated that Judas played a part in this ministry (treasurer, according to John), THEN Luke adds the parenthetical explanation of "wages of iniquity" - money that should have been put into the ministry, but was stolen by Judas to purchase a field. I believe this is a better exegetical explanation of what the "wages of iniquity" are. What do you think, Dave? DB... "Now since I have given you clear answers (and even references), perhaps you could unequivocally state what type of inerrantist you are (instead of asking me what type I think you are, as you did to Mr Joslin)." MY REPLY... I will gladly admit that I am a Complete Inerrantist, although I do not have that big a problem with the Limited Inerrancy view. Frank
#In <1qvabj$g1j@horus.ap.mchp.sni.de> frank@D012S658.uucp (Frank O'Dwyer) # #>In article <C5qGM3.DL8@news.cso.uiuc.edu> cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (Mike # #Am I making a wrong assumption for the basis of morals? Where do they come #from? The question came from the idea that I heard that morals come from #whatever is societally mandated. It's only one aspect of morality. Societal morality is necessarily very crude and broad-brush stuff which attempts to deal with what is necessary to keep that society going - and often it's a little over-enthusiastic about doing so. Individual morality is a different thing, it often includes societal mores (or society is in trouble), but is stronger. For example, some people are vegetarian, though eating meat may be perfectly legal. # #>#Merely a question for the basis of morality #># #>#Moral/Ethical behavior = _Societally_ _acceptable_ _behavior_. #># #>#1)Who is society # #>Depends on the society. # #Doesn't help. Is the point irrelevant? No. Often the answer is "we are". But if society is those who make the rules, that's a different question. If society is who should make the rules, that's yet another. I don't claim to have the answers, either, but I don't think we do it very well in Ireland, and I like some things about the US system, at least in principle. # #>#2)How do "they" define what is acceptable? # #>Depends. #On.... Again, this comes from a certain question (see above). Well, ideally they don't, but if they must they should do it by consensus, IMO. # #>#3)How do we keep from a "whatever is legal is what is "moral" "position? # #>By adopting a default position that people's moral decisions #>are none of society's business, # #So how can we put people in jail? How can we condemn other societies? Because sometimes that's necessary. The hard trick is to recognise when it is, and equally importantly, when it isn't. # and only interfering when it's truly #>necessary. # #Why would it be necessary? What right do we have to interfere? IMO, it isn't often that interference (i.e. jail, and force of various kinds and degrees) is both necessary and effective. Where you derive the right to interfere is a difficult question - it's a sort of liar's paradox: "force is necessary for freedom". One possible justification is that people who wish to take away freedom shouldn't object if their own freedom is taken away - the paradox doesn't arise if we don't actively wish to take way anyone's freedom. # # The introduction of permissible interference causes the problem #>that it can be either too much or too little - but most people seem #>to agree that some level of interference is necessary. # #They see the need for a "justice" system. How can we even define that term? Only by consensus, I guess. # Thus you #>get a situation where "The law often allows what honour forbids", which I've #>come to believe is as it should be. # #I admit I don't understand that statement. What I mean is that, while thus-and-such may be legal, thus-and-such may also be seen as immoral. The law lets you do it, but you don't let yourself do it. Eating meat, for example.
Graeme> Yes, that's known as "Bresenhams Run Length Slice Algorithm for Graeme> Incremental lines". See Fundamental Algorithms for Computer Graphics, Graeme> Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg 1985. Graeme> Hmm. I don't think I can help you with this, but you might Graeme> take a look at the following: Graeme> "Double-Step Incremental Generation of Lines and Circles", Graeme> X. Wu and J. G. Rokne, Computer Graphics and Image processing, Graeme> Vol 37, No. 4, Mar. 1987, pp. 331-334 Graeme> "Double-Step Generation of Ellipses", X. Wu and J. G. Rokne, Graeme> IEEE Computer Graphics & Applications, May 1989, pp. 56-69 Another paper you might want to consider is: @article{fungdraw, title="A Run-Length Slice Line Drawing Algorithm without Division Operations", author="Khun Yee Fung and Tina M. Nicholl and A. K. Dewdney", journal="Computer Graphics Forum", year=1992, volume=11, number=3, pages="C-267--C-277" } Khun Yee
The only difference is the time the driver gets loaded. mouse.sys will be loaded during the config.sys and therefor before the command.com. mouse.com will be loaded during autoexec.bat and so after the command.com. mouse.com could be started from the commandline after the booting and it could - perhaps - be unloaded, if no other driver is loaded after it. The working of both drivers is totally the same. When I ran dos, I preferred loading most of the drivers in autoexec.bat, because some programs won't run with some drivers and I could choose the ones I needed during startup. But with DRDOS6, this advantage is gone, because DRDOS lets you choose in config.sys which drivers should be loaded. Michael
Oh, that was just a bet.
Almost all window managers (twm, mwm, olwm and their derivates) support escape sequences for it. For your purpose put following into your .login (if you're using csh or tcsh), for sh you have to modify it. if ( "$term" == "xterm" ) then echo "^[]2;${LOGNAME}@${HOST}^G^[]1;${HOST}^G" endif Note, ^[ stands for <Esc>, in vi you can enter it by pressing Ctrl-V and the <Esc>. Same for ^G, it means Ctrl-G. In vi: press Ctrl-V and then Ctrl-G. The first sequence puts the string into the title bar the second in the icon. BTW, you can also put the current working directory in the title bar if you make an alias for cd: alias cd 'cd \!* ; echo "^[]2;${LOGNAME}@${HOST}: ${cwd}^G"' greetings, Thomas
Does this organization have an official e-mail address these days? (an address for any of the SF Bay Area Lodges, e.g. Thelema would do.) 93... A.Lizard
I may be interesting to see some brief selections posted to the net. My understanding is that SSPX does not consider ITSELF in schism or legitimately excommunicated. But that's really beside the point. What does the Roman Catholic church say? Excommunication can be real apart from formal excommunication, as provided for in canon law. After all we Orthodox don't cinsider ourselves schismatic or excommunicated. But the Catholic Church considers us dissident. If this is inappropriate for this group or beyond the charter, I'm sure OFM will let us know. Larry Overacker (llo@shell.com) -- ------- Lawrence Overacker Shell Oil Company, Information Center Houston, TX (713) 245-2965 llo@shell.com
I have before me a pertinent report from the United States General Accounting Office: National Aero-Space Plane: Restructuring Future Research and Development Efforts December 1992 Report number GAO/NSIAD-93-71 In the back it lists the following related reports: NASP: Key Issues Facing the Program (31 Mar 92) GAO/T-NSIAD-92-26 Aerospace Plane Technology: R&D Efforts in Japan and Australia (4 Oct 91) GAO/NSIAD-92-5 Aerospace Plane Technology: R&D Efforts in Europe (25 July 91) GAO/NSIAD-91-194 Aerospace Technology: Technical Data and Information on Foreign Test Facilities (22 Jun 90) GAO/NSIAD-90-71FS Investment in Foreign Aerospace Vehicle Research and Technological Development Efforts (2 Aug 89) GAO/T-NSIAD-89-43 NASP: A Technology Development and Demonstration Program to Build the X-30 (27 Apr 88) GAO/NSIAD-88-122 On the inside back cover, under "Ordering Information" it says "The first copy of each GAO report is free. . . . Orders may also be placed by calling (202)275-6241 " Dani
KS> From: keith@actrix.gen.nz (Keith Stewart) KS>My wife has become interested through an acquaintance in Post-Polio Syndrome KS>This apparently is not recognised in New Zealand and different symptons ( eg KS>chest complaints) are treated separately. Does anone have any information I'm not sure that this condition is "recognised" anywhere (in the sense of a disease with diagnostic criteria, clear boundaries between it and other diseases, unique pathologic or physiologic features, etc), but here goes with what many neurologists agree on. Post-polio syndrome patients have evidence of motor neuron disease by clinical examination, EMG, and muscle biopsy. The abnormalities are mostly chronic (due to old polio) but there is evidence of ongoing deterioration. Clinically, the patients complain of declining strength and endurance with everyday motor tasks. Musculoskeletal pain is a nearly universal feature that doubtless contributes to the impaired performance. The examination shows muscle weakness and atrophy. The EMG shows evidence of old denervation with reinnervation (giant and long-duration motor unit action potentials) *and* evidence of active denervation (fibrillation potentials). The biopsy also shows old denervation with reinnervation (fiber-type grouping) *and* evidence of active denervation (small, angulated fibers with dense oxidative enzyme staining) - but curiously, little or no group atrophy. Post-polio patients do not have ALS. In ALS, there is clinically evident deterioration from one month to the next. In post-polio, the patients are remarkably stable in objective findings from one year to the next. Of course, there are patients who had polio before who develop genuine ALS, but ALS is no more common among polio survivors than among people who never had polio. The cause of post-polio syndrome is unknown. There is little evidence that post-polio patients have active polio virus or destructive immunologic response to virus antigen. There is no solid evidence that patients with post-polio have anything different happening to the motor unit (anterior horn cells, motor axons, neuromuscular junctions, and muscle fibers) than patients with old polio who are not complaining of deterioration. Both groups can have the same EMG and biopsy findings. The reason for these "acute" changes in a "chronic" disease (old polio) is unknown. Possibly spinal motor neurons (that have reinnervated huge numbers of muscle fibers) start shedding the load after several years. There are a couple of clinical features that distinguish post-polio syndrome patients from patients with old polio who deny deterioration. The PPS patients are more likely to have had severe polio. The PPS patients are *much* more likely to complain of pain. They also tend to score higher on depression scales of neuropsychologic tests. My take on this (I'm sure some will disagree): after recovery from severe polio there can be abnormal loading on muscles, tendons, ligaments, bones, and joints, that leads to inflammatory and/or degenerative conditions affecting these structures. The increasing pain, superimposed on the chronic (but unchanging) weakness, leads to progressive impairment of motor performance and ADL. I am perhaps biased by personal experience of having never seen a PPS patient who was not limited in some way by pain. I do not believe that PPS patients have more rapid deterioration of motor units than non-PPS patients (i.e., those with old polio of similar severity but without PPS complaints).
Archive-name: space/schedule Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:23 $ SPACE SHUTTLE ANSWERS, LAUNCH SCHEDULES, TV COVERAGE SHUTTLE LAUNCHINGS AND LANDINGS; SCHEDULES AND HOW TO SEE THEM Shuttle operations are discussed in the Usenet group sci.space.shuttle, and Ken Hollis (gandalf@pro-electric.cts.com) posts a compressed version of the shuttle manifest (launch dates and other information) periodically there. The manifest is also available from the Ames SPACE archive in SPACE/FAQ/manifest. The portion of his manifest formerly included in this FAQ has been removed; please refer to his posting or the archived copy. For the most up to date information on upcoming missions, call (407) 867-INFO (867-4636) at Kennedy Space Center. Official NASA shuttle status reports are posted to sci.space.news frequently. WHY DOES THE SHUTTLE ROLL JUST AFTER LIFTOFF? The following answer and translation are provided by Ken Jenks (kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov). The "Ascent Guidance and Flight Control Training Manual," ASC G&C 2102, "During the vertical rise phase, the launch pad attitude is commanded until an I-loaded V(rel) sufficient to assure launch tower clearance is achieved. Then, the tilt maneuver (roll program) orients the vehicle to a heads down attitude required to generate a negative q-alpha, which in turn alleviates structural loading. Other advantages with this attitude are performance gain, decreased abort maneuver complexity, improved S-band look angles, and crew view of the horizon. The tilt maneuver is also required to start gaining downrange velocity to achieve the main engine cutoff (MECO) target in second stage." This really is a good answer, but it's couched in NASA jargon. I'll try to interpret. 1) We wait until the Shuttle clears the tower before rolling. 2) Then, we roll the Shuttle around so that the angle of attack between the wind caused by passage through the atmosphere (the "relative wind") and the chord of the wings (the imaginary line between the leading edge and the trailing edge) is a slightly negative angle ("a negative q-alpha"). This causes a little bit of "downward" force (toward the belly of the Orbiter, or the +Z direction) and this force "alleviates structural loading." We have to be careful about those wings -- they're about the most "delicate" part of the vehicle. 3) The new attitude (after the roll) also allows us to carry more mass to orbit, or to achieve a higher orbit with the same mass, or to change the orbit to a higher or lower inclination than would be the case if we didn't roll ("performance gain"). 4) The new attitude allows the crew to fly a less complicated flight path if they had to execute one of the more dangerous abort maneuvers, the Return To Launch Site ("decreased abort maneuver complexity"). 5) The new attitude improves the ability for ground-based radio antennae to have a good line-of-sight signal with the S-band radio antennae on the Orbiter ("improved S-band look angles"). 6) The new attitude allows the crew to see the horizon, which is a helpful (but not mandatory) part of piloting any flying machine. 7) The new attitude orients the Shuttle so that the body is more nearly parallel with the ground, and the nose to the east (usually). This allows the thrust from the engines to add velocity in the correct direction to eventually achieve orbit. Remember: velocity is a vector quantity made of both speed and direction. The Shuttle has to have a large horizontal component to its velocity and a very small vertical component to attain orbit. This all begs the question, "Why isn't the launch pad oriented to give this nice attitude to begin with? Why does the Shuttle need to roll to achieve that attitude?" The answer is that the pads were leftovers from the Apollo days. The Shuttle straddles two flame trenches -- one for the Solid Rocket Motor exhaust, one for the Space Shuttle Main Engine exhaust. (You can see the effects of this on any daytime launch. The SRM exhaust is dirty gray garbage, and the SSME exhaust is fluffy white steam. Watch for the difference between the "top" [Orbiter side] and the "bottom" [External Tank side] of the stack.) The access tower and other support and service structure are all oriented basically the same way they were for the Saturn V's. (A side note: the Saturn V's also had a roll program. Don't ask me why -- I'm a Shuttle guy.) I checked with a buddy in Ascent Dynamics. He added that the "roll maneuver" is really a maneuver in all three axes: roll, pitch and yaw. The roll component of that maneuver is performed for the reasons stated. The pitch component controls loading on the wings by keeping the angle of attack (q-alpha) within a tight tolerance. The yaw component is used to determine the orbital inclination. The total maneuver is really expressed as a "quaternion," a grad-level-math concept for combining all three rotation matrices in one four-element array. HOW TO RECEIVE THE NASA TV CHANNEL, NASA SELECT NASA SELECT is broadcast by satellite. If you have access to a satellite dish, you can find SELECT on Satcom F2R, Transponder 13, C-Band, 72 degrees West Longitude, Audio 6.8, Frequency 3960 MHz. F2R is stationed over the Atlantic, and is increasingly difficult to receive from California and points west. During events of special interest (e.g. shuttle missions), SELECT is sometimes broadcast on a second satellite for these viewers. If you can't get a satellite feed, some cable operators carry SELECT. It's worth asking if yours doesn't. The SELECT schedule is found in the NASA Headline News which is frequently posted to sci.space.news. Generally it carries press conferences, briefings by NASA officials, and live coverage of shuttle missions and planetary encounters. SELECT has recently begun carrying much more secondary material (associated with SPACELINK) when missions are not being covered. AMATEUR RADIO FREQUENCIES FOR SHUTTLE MISSIONS The following are believed to rebroadcast space shuttle mission audio: W6FXN - Los Angeles K6MF - Ames Research Center, Mountain View, California WA3NAN - Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC), Greenbelt, Maryland. W5RRR - Johnson Space Center (JSC), Houston, Texas W6VIO - Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), Pasadena, California. W1AW Voice Bulletins Station VHF 10m 15m 20m 40m 80m ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- ----- W6FXN 145.46 K6MF 145.585 7.165 3.840 WA3NAN 147.45 28.650 21.395 14.295 7.185 3.860 W5RRR 146.64 28.400 21.350 14.280 7.227 3.850 W6VIO 224.04 21.340 14.270 W6VIO 224.04 21.280 14.282 7.165 3.840 W1AW 28.590 21.390 14.290 7.290 3.990 W5RRR transmits mission audio on 146.64, a special event station on the other frequencies supplying Keplerian Elements and mission information. W1AW also transmits on 147.555, 18.160. No mission audio but they transmit voice bulletins at 0245 and 0545 UTC. Frequencies in the 10-20m bands require USB and frequencies in the 40 and 80m bands LSB. Use FM for the VHF frequencies. [This item was most recently updated courtesy of Gary Morris (g@telesoft.com, KK6YB, N5QWC)] SOLID ROCKET BOOSTER FUEL COMPOSITION Reference: "Shuttle Flight Operations Manual" Volume 8B - Solid Rocket Booster Systems, NASA Document JSC-12770 Propellant Composition (percent) Ammonium perchlorate (oxidizer) 69.6 Aluminum 16 Iron Oxide (burn rate catalyst) 0.4 Polybutadiene-acrilic acid-acrylonitrile (a rubber) 12.04 Epoxy curing agent 1.96 End reference Comment: The aluminum, rubber, and epoxy all burn with the oxidizer.
Has anyone looked into the possiblity of a Proton/Centaur combo? What would be the benefits and problems with such a combo (other than the obvious instability in the XSSR now)?
FYI...I just posted this on alt.psychoactives as a response to what the group is for...... A note to the users of alt.psychoactives.... This group was originally a takeoff from sci.med. The reason for the formation of this group was to discuss prescription psychoactive drugs....such as antidepressents(tri-cyclics, Prozac, Lithium,etc), antipsychotics(Melleral(sp?), etc), OCD drugs(Anafranil, etc), and so on and so forth. It didn't take long for this group to degenerate into a psudo alt.drugs atmosphere. That's to bad, for most of the serious folks that wanted to start this group in the first place have left and gone back to sci.med, where you have to cypher through hundreds of unrelated articles to find psychoactive data. It was also to discuss real-life experiences and side effects of the above mentioned. Oh well, I had unsubscribed to this group for some time, and I decided to check it today to see if anything had changed....nope....same old nine or ten crap articles that this group was never intended for. I think it is very hard to have a meaningfull group without it being moderated...too bad. Oh well, obviously, no one really cares. Bill Claussen Would anyone be interested in starting a similar moderated group?
What does "DC" stand for? Couldn't be an antichiropractic posting from a chiropractor, could it? My curiosity is piqued. Prostate CA is an especially troublesome entity for chiropractors. It so typically causes bone pain due to spinal metastases that it gets manipulated frequently. Manipulating a cancer riddled bone is highly dangerous, since it can then fracture. I've seen at least three cases where this happened with resulting neurologic damage, including paraplegia. This is one instance where knowing how to read x-rays can really help a chiropractor stay out of trouble. DO chiropractors know what bony mets from prostate look like? -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
I remember hearing a few years back about a new therapy for hyperactivity which involved aggressively eliminating artificial coloring and flavoring from the diet. The theory -- which was backed up by interesting anecdotal results -- is that certain people are just way more sensitive to these chemicals than other people. I don't remember any connection being made with seizures, but it certainly couldn't hurt to try an all-natural diet.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy. I'm sure there's an FAQ, as I have made at least 10 answers to questions on it in the last year or so. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
^^^^^ No: It is old. You said AMORC *IS*, not *was*... :-) Nothing personal, OK? Good! :-) Maybe you didn't know that it's over by now. There is no more pending legal actions from no where, period. So yes, there was a situation and it has been resolved by BOTH parties. As long as humans handle anything, it is subjected to "breaking" :-) BTW, Gary L. Stewart has a P.O. Box in TX calling his org ARC: Ancient Rosae Crucis. I guess he couldn't take the "MO" from AMORC :-)
This statement is just so blatantly disgusting and free of any implicit neural activity that I will almost completely ignore it. Sigh. It's so amusing to watch bigots point fingers at what they imagine to be other bigots. I do believe this person meant "bean *counting*". And are you trying to suggest that only Hispanics eat beans? Or that they even have a monopoly on eating beans? Or that this person is seriously promoting what is obviously a tongue-in-cheek .sig? You must have a brain somewhere, if you can cause your fingers to type. Use it. Drywid
Help: I am running some sample problems from O'Reilly volume 4, Xt Intrisics Programming Manual, chapter 3. popup dialog boxes and so on. In example 3.5, page 76 : "Creating a pop-up dialog box" The application creates window with a button "Quit" and "Press me". The button "Press me" pops up a dialog box. The strange feature of this program is that it always pops up the dialog box much faster the first time. If I try to pop it up a 2nd time (3rd, 4th .... time), it is *much* slower. Has anyone any experience with these sample programs, or why I get this behaviour - fast response time for the first time but slow response time from 2nd time onwards ? Anyone can give me some ideas on how to program popups so that each time they popup in reasonable fast response time ?
Sorry I missed you Raymond, I was just out in Dahlgren last month... I'm the Virtual Reality market manager for Silicon Graphics, so perhaps I can help a little. Unfortunately, while SGI systems were used to create the special effects for both Terminator 2 and Lawnmower Man, those are film-quality computer graphics, rendered in software and written to film a frame at a time. Each frame of computer animation for those films took hours to render on high-end parallel processing computer systems. Thus, that level of graphics would be difficult, if not impossible, to acheive in real time (30 frames per second). It depends upon how serious you are and how advanced your application is. True immersive visualization (VR), requires the rendering of complex visual databases at anywhere from 20 to 60 newly rendered frames per second. This is a similar requirement to that of traditional flight simulators for pilot training. If the frame rate is too low, the user notices the stepping of the frames as they move their head rapidly around the scene, so the motion of the graphics is not smooth and contiguous. Thus the graphics system must be powerful enough to sustain high frame rates while rendering complex data representations. Additionally, the frame rate must be constant. If the system renders 15 frames per second at one point, then 60 frames per second the next (perhaps due to the scene in the new viewing direction being simpler than what was visible before), the user can get heavily distracted by the medium (the graphics computer) rather than focusing on the data. To maintain a constant frame rate, the system must be able to run in real-time. UNIX in general does not support real-time operation, but Silicon Graphics has modified the UNIX kernel for its multi-processor systems to be able to support real-time operation, bypassing the usual UNIX process priority-management schemes. Uniprocessor systems running UNIX cannot fundamentally support real-time operation (not Sun SPARC10, not HP 700 Series systems, not IBM RS-6000, not even SGI's uniprocessor systems like Indigo or Crimson). Only our multiprocessor Onyx and Challenge systems support real-time operation due to their Symmetric Multi-Processing (SMP) shared-memory architecture. From a graphics perspective, rendering complex virtual environments requires advanced rendering techniques like texture mapping and real-time multi-sample anti-aliasing. Of all of the general purpose graphics systems on the market today, only Crimson RealityEngine and Onyx RealityEngine2 systems fully support these capabilities. The anti-aliasing is particularly important, as the crawling jagged edges of aliased polygons is an unfortunate distraction when immersed in a virtual environment. You can use the general purpose graphics libraries listed above to develop VR applications, but that is starting at a pretty low level. There are off-the- shelf software packages available to get you going much faster, being targeted directly at the VR application developer. Some of the most popular are (in no particular order): - Division Inc. (Redwood City, CA) - dVS - Sens8 Inc. (Sausalito, CA) - WorldToolKit - Naval Postgraduate School (Monterey, CA) - NPSnet (FREE!) - Gemini Technology Corp (Irvine, CA) - GVS Simation Series - Paradigm Simulation Inc. (Dallas, TX) - VisionWorks, AudioWorks - Silicon Graphics Inc. (Mountain View,CA) - IRIS Performer There are some others, but not off the top of my head... There are too many to list here, but here is a smattering: - Fake Space Labs (Menlo Park,CA) - BOOM - Virtual Technologies Inc. (Stanford, CA) - CyberGlove - Digital Image Design (New York, NY) - The Cricket (3D input) - Kaiser Electro Optics (Carlsbad, CA) - Sim Eye Helmet Displays - Virtual Research (Sunnyvale, CA) - Flight Helmet display - Virtual Reality Inc. (Pleasantville,NY) - Head Mtd Displays, s/w - Software Systems (San Jose, CA) - 3D Modeling software - etc., etc., etc. Read some of the VR books on the market: - Virtual Reality - Ken Pimental and Ken Texiera (sp?) - Virtual Mirage - Artificial Reality - Myron Kreuger - etc. Or check out the newsgroup sci.virtual_worlds Feel free to contact me for more info. Regards, Josh --
< <> Here's a simple way to convert the Clipper proposal to an unexceptionable <> one: Make it voluntary. < <As usually, you are not reading. The proposal -does- say that it is a <"voluntary program". This doesn't make it more desirable, though... < <> That is--you get high quality secure NSA classified technology if you agree <> to escrow your key. Otherwise you are on your own. < <"Secure"? How do you know? Because NSA is trying to make you believe it? <"Trust us." Yeah, right. < <"Otherwise you are on your own"? How do you know that tomorrow they <will not outlaw encrypring devices that don't use "their" technology? <Because they are promising you? Gee, they are not doing even that - <read the proposal again. One minor nitpick: It is not a proposal. It is a *DECISION* ... from their point of view it is a DONE DEAL. The chips are being manufactured, it obviously has been budgeted, the whole thing. THAT IS WHAT IS SO UPSETTING. THIS WAS ALL DONE IN SECRET. Because they DIDN'T want the people to know what was going on until it is too late. Otherwise, I agree with you 100 percent. How come it always takes someone who has lived under the Eastern Bloc to remind us about how precious and fragile our liberties are? Please, keep up the good work. Hopefully you will wake SOMEONE up... < <Regards, <Vesselin <-- <Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg <Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226 Fachbereich Informatik - AGN << PGP 2.2 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C <e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de D-2000 Hamburg 54, Germany
So which are you advocating? That You know Nothing About American History, Or that You Know Nothing About the Bible? Is this a Restoration of the "Know Nothing" Party? ciao drieux ps: what WAS the "Free Negro Sailor Act" about, and what was the Supreme Court's Ruling On it... and More Importantly, how does this Complicate the Mythology that all blacks were slaves????
Hello,
HI, I am looking for an X app that will display dxf files. These are ascii text files that are normally associated with autocad. I have a large 9 meg. file of the state of wisconsin that i would like to views and or cut into smaller chunks. I also would like to find a complete file layout for dxf files. Any information would be appreciated.
: I would like to get your opinions on this: when exactly does an engaged : couple become "married" in God's eyes? Some say that if the two have : publically announced their plans to marry, have made their vows to God, and : are unswervingly committed to one another (I realize this is a subjective : qualifier) they are married/joined in God's sight. The way I read Scripture, a couple becomes married when they are *physically* married, i.e. when they first have sexual intercourse. e.g. the end of Genesis 2 (quoted from memory) ``for this reason, a man shall leave his parents and be joined to his wife, and they will become one flesh'' (Jesus also quotes this scripture referring to marriage). If you read through Genesis in particular, you will often come across the phraseology: ``[man] lay with [woman], and she became his wife''. This implies that she became his wife when they lay together, i.e. at the point of intercourse. Compare this with Jewish tradition: Joseph, when he heard that Mary was pregnant, had it in mind to divorce her quietly -- but Mary and Joseph were *betrothed*, not married. i.e., they were in a binding relationship (which required a divorce to get out of), but *marriage* would not occur until Mary and Joseph went to bed together. Compare with Christ and the Church (Ephesians 5, Revelation 19): the church is described as the ``bride'' of Christ, but the *marriage* of the Lamb takes place when Jesus returns. i.e., we are in a binding love-relationship with Jesus, but we are still looking forward to the time when the marriage will take place. I see this as the spiritual equivalent of sexual intercourse, because it represents the most intimate fellowship possible between man and God. In summary, engagement should be honoured as a binding relationship, but it is not marriage. A civil ceremony is not marriage either. Marriage occurs at the point when the betrothed couple go to bed together. (I don't mean to demean the civil or church ceremony -- ours was great! I don't mean to be too pedantic.) Historically, I think I am correct in stating that the civil ceremony (i.e. a marriage recognised by the state), has only been around in the West since Napoleon, who introduced it to keep tabs on the people (although I'm ready to be corrected on that point!) This view obviously raises some questions: What about those who have had sex with one or more partners, without considering marriage. Are those people also ``married''? If it is true that marriage occurs at the point of intercourse, is it necessary to be married in the eyes of the state? (I would say Yes, because this honours the laws of our nations in the West. Although it is not illegal to sleep together though unmarried in most Western countries, I believe that it is God- honouring to proclaim our marriage to the state and to our friends before actually consummating our marriage. Its to do with our being salt and light, and also to do with how people will perceive us; i.e. it is culturally insensitive to declare yourself married without going through a civil ceremony.) -- ----- Michael Davis (cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk)
I am running Windows 3.1, Windows for Work Groups and just loaded Dos 6. What`s happening appears as a graphics problem with File Manager. I've added some menubar buttons but there appears to be a gray boxed region that covers the top 2/3'rds of the button row. These buttons are in a row below the pulldown menus. the pulldown menus look fine, and the disk label region looks fine, but you only see the bottom few pixels of the task buttons. Anyone else experience this? Thanks.
(reference line trimmed) Well, I'd say that a murderer is one who intentionally committed a murder. For instance, if you put a bullet into a gun that was thought to contain blanks, and someone was killed with such a gun, the person who actually performed the action isn't the murderer (but I guess this is actually made clear in the below definition). What do you mean by "reasonable?" [...] Yes, it is bad to include the word being defined in the definition. But, even though the series is recursively infinite, I think the meaning can still be deduced. [math lesson deleted] Okay, let's look at this situation: suppose there is a longstanding feud between two families which claim that the other committed some travesty in the distant past. Each time a member of the one family kills a member of the other, the other family thinks that it is justified in killing a that member of the first family. Now, let's suppose that this sequence has occurred an infinite number of times. Or, if you don't like dealing with infinities, suppose that one member of the family goes back into time and essentially begins the whole thing. That is, there is a never-ending loop of slayings based on some non-existent travesty. How do you resolve this? Well, they are all murders. Now, I suppose that this isn't totally applicable to your "problem," but it still is possible to reduce an uninduced system. And, in any case, the nested "murderer" in the definition of murder cannot be infintely recursive, given the finite existence of humanity. And, a murder cannot be committed without a killing involved. So, the first person to intentionally cause someone to get killed is necessarily a murderer. Is this enough of an induction to solve the apparently unreducable definition? See, in a totally objective system where all the information is available, such a nested definition isn't really a problem.
Yes, a point well-taken ... however, even in areas that finally got some games, there's something nagging in the back of your skull when the network that has the national rights in its pocket says on its sports news, "There's an awesome overtime going on in Quebec City, and we'll *try* to get you an update through the show ..." when you know that it's on a satellite's feedhorn somewhere up there ... From today's Times, ABC got great ratings in Chicago and St. Louis (a 4.2), and the Kings-Flames got a 2.9 on the West Coast, but only a 2.2 in metro New York (i.e., the Devils squandered their newfound support from a year ago when they played the Rangers )-;). In comparison, Seniors Golf did better ... I fear that the overall national numbers will not be so great ... I can't tell if ABC did any advance marketing or not, 'cos I don't watch much TV ... the NHL should have made sure that it was solid on cable before going on the air. Even ESPN could've sold second rights to third party systems (i.e., non-SportsChannel) since they are not making any extra money by sitting on the games ... hockey fans will not necessarily be watching pre-season beach volleyball if playoffs games aren't being shown somewhere ... gld
:Of course, one again faces the question of how one circumscribes government :power (and keeps it circumscribed) in a complex society when it is in the :interest of neither capitalists nor consumers to refrain from using :government power for their own ends. But apart from that little :conundrum... Without having a complete answer to this question, I should think it obvious that the first step should be to convince people this would be a desirable result. There are still quite a lot of people who feel that the command economies of eastern Europe failed due to corruption rather than essential weaknesses of caommand economies, and you still have a majority in this nation that favors keeping unenforced and unenforcible laws on the books in order to "send a signal". :It would seem that a society with a "failed" government would be an ideal :setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented. Now why do you suppose :that never seems to occur?... I fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. Constant combat isn't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing. Also, they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable society anyway. :I wouldn't call it "vague." I'd call it elastic. All "regulation" is :not necessarily the same. By opposing all government regulation, some :libertarians treat every system from a command economy to those that :regulate relatively free markets as identical. That's one reason :many of the rest of us find their analysis to be simplistic. Umm, is there any distinction between "vague" and "elastic" in this context aside from one having a more positive connotation than the other? At any rate, we've been through all this before. :Steve Hendricks | DOMAIN: steveh@thor.ISC-BR.COM :"One thing about data, it sure does cut| UUCP: ...!uunet!isc-br!thor!steveh : the bulls**t." - R. Hofferbert | Ma Bell: 509 838-8826 Incidentally, this is a libertarian newsgroup, you can get away with saying, "bullshit" here. You're welcome,
After having OpenWindows (Version 3 for SunOS 4.1) or Xwindows running continuously on my machine for 3-4 days, the following message appears when trying to open a new window, or to run any program that needs to open windows. XView error: Cannot open connection to window server: :0.0 (Server package) I would greatly appreciate any suggestions to solve this problem.
>say they have a "history of untrustworthy behavoir[sic]"?
: I have normal procomm plus for dos, but I've been considering buying : the windows version....it got really great reviews in computer shopper. : I have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here : using it, but the screen seems to have a problem keeping up with the : modem....he has a 14,400 modem on a 486 50 Mhz machine. I can't : see it having trouble keeping up. His pcplus for dos works great, re: What to do after the high speed modem arrives. Edition 01 Apr 93 This article applies only to Windows 3.0 and 3.1, and not to NT, OS/2 or DOS apps not running under Windows. One of the unadvertised limitations of most current Windows PCs is that their RS-232C (serial, COM) performance is seriously deficient. Almost everyone who purchases a high-speed modem (V.32bis, V.32, PEP or HST) discovers the problem the first time they try to download a file or accept an incoming FAX (at 9600+) after upgrading the modem. Overrun and retry errors abound, even when the only active application is the datacomm or FAX program. If the transfer completes at all, it may take even longer than with the old 2400bps modem. There are three reasons for the problem: 1. The Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitters (UARTs) used in most PCs are primitive Ns8250 devices with single-byte FIFO buffers. If the operating system/driver cannot read and flush each character at high interrupt rates, the next incoming character overwrites the FIFO and the previous one is lost. DOS, being a fairly single-minded environment during datacomm, can usually keep up. Windows can't. 2. Windows has more operating system overhead than plain DOS, and interrupts often take longer to service. Overruns are much more likely than under DOS. As soon as you report to your PC/modem vendor that you are losing data, you may be advised that "you need to upgrade to a 16550". More likely, since there seems to be a conspiracy of ignorance about this issue, you'll get no useful advice at all. Most of the store-front and mail-order sources I spoke with in attempting to solve my own problem had never heard the term "16550" and many didn't even know what a UART was. 3. Even your PC has Ns16550A UARTs (and PS/2's do), or if you can upgrade your mother/COM board or add a new COM board, you may STILL experience errors and overruns because the standard MicroSoft Windows COM drivers don't take full advantage of the 16550. Windows 3.1 is improved in this regard over 3.0, but I still recommend a driver upgrade. Applications like ProComm+/Win (which is what I use) cannot get around this problem by themselves. If you have a modem CARD, you may not have a problem, as the modem part of the card can be designed to be aware of the state of the UART, and avoid overrunning it; however, I wouldn't want to bet that the card designers were that clever, and will insist on a 16550 UART if I ever buy a modem card. Some modem cards don't even have conventional UARTs, but if they are to work with standard Windows drivers, they need to simulate one. Use MSD.EXE (below) to see what the modem card is, or is pretending to be. The Hardware Situation. The UARTs on most PC COM ports are based on National Semiconductor Ns8250 or Ns16450 chips (or megacells inside VLSI chips where you can't replace them). You can ID the UART type on your system by running the MicroSoft diagnostic program \WINDOWS\MSD.EXE. Be sure to run it in DOS *before* bringing up Windows. The Windows serial API may prevent MSD from accurately identifying a 16550 if you run it from a Windows DOS prompt. The Ns16550 UART has separate 16-byte transmit and receive FIFOs with configurable trigger levels, and can run reliably at clock rates up to 460,800 bps, although with current modem technology, there's no point in pushing your luck by going over 115,200 bps. The 16550 has shorted access cycle times than the 16450 or 8250. The 16550 also has DMA capability, but it is not clear that any PC drivers ever use this. For more technical info, see National Semiconductor Application Note AN-491. So, what UART component do you have? Try to locate the UART on your mother board, multi-function I/O card, COM board or ISA/MCA modem card. If you can't find a socketed component with the numbers "8250" or "16450", your COM ports are probably buried in VLSI, and you won't be able to perform a chip replacement. If you can DISABLE your VLSI COM ports (as I chose to do), you can at least add an aftermarket COM board. If you have one or more socketed 8250 or 16450 chips, you can buy plug-in Ns16550AFN or PC16C550CN (low power CMOS version) ICs from several suppliers typically for $9 to $15 each. The "N" chip is the normal 40-pin dual-in-line package. Other styles are available, but avoid any Ns16550 chips without the "A" (the 16C550C are presumably all OK). Early Ns chips have bugs, although National will reportedly exchange those of their own manufacture for free. Clone chips are available from various IC makers other than National. The manual for the TurboCom drivers states support for the following (apparently equivalent) chips: National Semiconductor: 16550A, 16551, 16552 Chips&Technology: 82C607 Texas Instruments: t16c550a Silicon Systems: 73M550 VLSI 16C550 TurboCom warns about the pre-"A" Ns16550 and Western Digital 16C550, says that problems have been reported with early IBM PS/2 55SX and 70 systems (IBM reportedly will upgrade them). If you DON'T have socketed 8250/16450 chips, you'll need to buy an after- market COM or multi-function board. If this is a modem card situation, you may be hosed. To add a new COM or multi-function card, you'll need to either disable the COM1/2 port(s) you are replacing, or re-assign them to COM3/4 (although watch out for IRQ conflicts without TurboCom). Although cheaper cards are available, in the interest of getting the problem solved quickly I elected buy the Modular Circuit Technology MCT-AIO+ card from: JDR Microdevices 2233 Samaritan Drive San Jose CA 95124 (800) 538-5000 voice US (408) 559-1200 voice other (800) 538-5005 FAX US The MCT-AIO+ (and the "+" is important) sells for $89.95. It is an 8-bit ISA card providing: Port Type Connector Address and IRQ Comments COM DB9M COM 1,2,3 IRQ 2,3,4,5 Ns16550AFN in socket COM ribbon COM 2,3,4 IRQ 2,3,4,5 Ns16550AFN in socket Parallel DB25F LPT1,2,3 IRQ 5,7 Game ribbon The kit includes a ribbon cable and DB25F connector for the secondary COM port, a ribbon cable/connector for the game port, two bulkhead plates for the ribbon-based connectors and a 9F-to-25F adaptor cable. Each port can be individually disabled, and the COM ports have TX, RX, RTS, CTS, DTR, DCD, and DSR jumpers. JDR also sells a Super-I/O m-f card that also has IDE. I have heard from several people about less expensive m-f I/O cards with 16550s: TSD Systems (407) 331-9130 $19.95 for the card, plus $9.95 per 16550. Greenfield Trading and Distributors (518) 271-2473 (voice), (518) 271-7811(FAX). Their card is $33 w/one 16550, $45 w/2, and they sell 16550AFNs for $13. R&S DATA SYSTEMS, INC. 820 East Highway 434 Longwood, FL 32750 PHONE: (407) 331-1424 FAX: (407) 331-8606 2COM/LPT/Game card w/2 16550s for $39 I have no personal experience with any of the firms except JDR. Meanwhile, back at the MCT card from JDR... I only needed two serial ports, and am running out of IRQs on my PC, so I disabled my built-in VLSI-based 8250 ports. However, with the TurboCom driver (below), I could have set the internals as COM3 and 4, using IRQ sharing. The Software Situation Simply upgrading to 16550 UARTs will not completely solve common overrun problems. The standard MS serial drivers don't take full advantage of the 16550. The Windows 3.0 drivers are even less capable, and the Windows 3.1 drivers have the following limitations: - They enable only the receive FIFO, and only at rates above 2400 bps. - They never enable the transmit FIFO, which results in an interrupt rate of 10x during uploads. - They set the trigger level at 14 bytes (too high - it's easy for 2 more bytes to arrive before the driver can read the FIFO). - The Ports menu of the Control Panel only allows speeds up to 19200. With a V.32bis modem, sparse data and text can easily compress 3:1 or more, suggesting that a host DTE connect rate of 57,600 bps would be effective. - The API won't accept rates above "CBR_128000". - The API won't let DOS programs know there is a 16550 there, and even if it did, DOS programs that aren't 16550-aware get little benefit from a 16550 port with the standard drivers. - They don't allow IRQ sharing for COM3,4. - The BIOS doesn't initialize COM3,4 properly in many systems. - Windows provides no workaround for apps that don't provide port speed options above 19200 bps. These problems are reportedly NOT solved in Windows NT or DOS 6.0, and may or may not be addressed in any Windows releases after 3.1 (but before 4.0). Rumors suggest they "may" be solved in Windows "4.0". You can get replacement drivers that solve all of those problems by buying a copy of "TurboCom", current version 1.2, from: Bio-Engineering Research Pacific CommWare Division 180 Beacon Hill Lane Ashland OR 97520-9701 (503) 482-2744 voice (503) 482-2627 FAX (503) 482-2633 BBS MCImail: 344-5374 CompuServe: 71521,760 Price was around $50 as I recall. Bio-Eng is not set up to accept credit cards, so I had to send a check. Egghead and 1-800-Software list TurboCom but as far as I know, they don't stock it. Bio is not a software company per se. They apparently needed reliable hi-speed serial connections for an in-house instrument application, wrote their own driver, discovered a market for it, revised it to be a general purpose COM driver suite. They recently upgraded it for Windows 3.1. It is run-time licensed. I now have my host (DTE) connect rate set to 57,600 bps most of my datacomm apps, and I am having ZERO problems with downloads. I routinely see transfer rates that exceed 2,000 bps. I am also using 115,200 bps when linking an HP95LX to my PC, with lossless bi-directional I/O. Uploads to various remote systems are another matter, because many hosts are still using antique UARTs and drivers. Note that 19200 is still the highest rate that the Windows 3.1 Port menu in Control Panel will allow in configuring a COM port. TurboCom gets around this by allowing you to specify, on each port, a factor that will set the real UART rate to a multiple of the rate passed through the Windows APIs and dialog boxes. I also have CTS/RTS hardware flow control enabled, and I suggest that you do the same. Even if you only ever transfer 7-bit ASCII data, Xon/XOff is not a sufficiently reliable method of flow control. The informal (DEC) standard for Xon/Xoff hysteresis is that the sender may transmit another 16 (yes, sixteen) bytes after receipt of the Xoff from the receiving system or device. The 16 byte FIFO in the 16550 is clearly not big enough to let us rely exclusively on Xon/Xoff. A well-respected datacomm engineer has informed me that the 16550's can't really do CTS/RTS all by itself in the DOS/Windows environment, so using data rates above 115,200 may still be risky. Even with hardware flow control, a 16550 with TurboCom can still experience overruns in very busy systems, with lots of apps running and serious swapping in progress. If this is your situation, you may need to buy a co-processed COM board, but this will cost you more than a 16550/TurboCom upgrade. A review of two such boards, and a review of TurboCom, can be found in the Feb'93 issue of "Windows Sources" magazine. I suggest trying a 16550/TurboCom upgrade first, and experiment with process priorities and time slices if you are a "power user" whose thrashing system still runs into comm problems. Closing Soapbox Comments The state of RS-232C serial datacomm support is an embarrassment across the computer industry. Because it is the oldest standard I/O interface, the job of designing hardware and writing software often seems to be assigned to the least senior or lowest ranked engineers at computer companies. The design of the average serial port is at least ten years behind the state of the art. In my last job, with a major workstation vendor, I lobbied for improved serial ports when they were doing the initial designs of a new system. That family of machines was subsequently introduced with 16550 ports. However, this is the exception. Few computer companies seem to have any champions for decent I/O. You may as well learn what you can about serial I/O, because this situation shows no sign of improving soon. When V.FAST arrives, I expect cries of outrage from Windows users world-wide whose 8250 PCs "sort of" work today with V.32, but will fail miserably with V.FAST. Without a hardware-buffered UART (like the 16550) and without software drivers that use that UART to best advantage, a V.FAST modem will be a waste of money. Regards, 1001-A East Harmony Road Bob Niland Suite 503 Internet: rjn@csn.org Fort Collins CO 80525 CompuServe: 71044,2124 (303) 223-5209 Copyright 1993 Robert J. Niland All Rights Reserved Permission is granted for automatic redistribution of this article, via electronic, magnetic and optical media, in an unedited form, through any Usenet newsgroup where the article is posted by the author. Permission is granted for each CompuServe and Usenet reader subscriber and each person who received this article from Compuserve, an ftp site authorized by the author or via electronic mail from the author, to retain one electronic copy and to make hardcopy reproductions of this edition of this article for personal non-commercial use, provided that no material changes are made to the article or this copyright statement. All other copying, storage, reproduction or redistribution of this article, in any form, is prohibited without the express written consent of the author, Robert J. Niland.
: I'm searching for a phonetic TrueType font for Windows 3.1. If : anybody knows one, please mail me! : : Thanks. : : dw : : : ################################################################## : Dipl.-Inform. Dietmar Weidlich # IfADo, Ardeystr. 67 # : weidlich@arb-phys.uni-dortmund.de # D-4600 Dortmund 50 # : Phone ++49 231 1084-250 # >> Dr. B.: "Koennten Sie das # : Fax ++49 231 1084-401 # MAL EBEN erledigen?" << # Yes, I'm looking for phonetic font(s) too! So if you know one, please mail me too!
I agree, although I would have no idea how to go about doing it. But you've got my vote. --I'm outta here like Vladimir --Alan
There is a certain truth to this statement. Only I would use the word "medicine" instead of drug. With regard to the condition of the human soul, Christianity is first and foremost a healing medicine. It also strengthens and enables one, as healing takes hold, to grow in new strength and health to live and be and to do that for which God created us. Christ's medicine, rightly allowed to work, brings one nearer to reality and offers the clarity of understanding and the strength of spirit with which to meet it in a healthy human way. (small spelling correction added)
Apparently not. In response to his claim that it "terrifies" gay people not to be able to "indoctrinate children to our lifestyle" (or words to that effect), I sent Roger a very calm, carefully-written, detailed letter explaining simply why the BSA policy does, indeed terrify me. I did not use inflammatory language and left myself extremely open for an answer. Thus far, I have not received an answer. I can conclude only that Roger considers his position either indefensible or simply not worth defending. In fact, that's exactly the point: people can control their behavior. Because of that fact, there is no need for a blanket ban on homosexuals. You tell me.
I hope you realize how trivial it is to manufacture these compounds. Given about $10k in lab equipment and chemicals (which are commercially available) and given the knowledge that I have (graduating BS, Ch, 1993) I could synthesize enough of these compounds to make a serious dent in the population of several major US cities. As also noted, the knowledge is there for the production of nuclear weapons. It's not even that restricted. The only thing is the expense. Now I'm not going around making these things, but it's not 'cause of any law; I simply don't get any marginal benefit out of killing anyone. Any law you enact in this respect is only going to give you the ability to add a charge against someone who does make and use said weapons. In the case of chemical agents, I seriously doubt that you would even know that someone had set up a lab until after the weapons had been used. Part of the trouble with the chemical-weapons ban treaty between the US and the USSR is that many of the precursors to chemical weapons such as GB and Sarin, etc., is that they have very valid commercial uses, and it is very easy to divert those precursors to chemical weapons manufacture without anyone knowing about it.
:) No...I was one of the lucky ones. Very little acne as a teenager. I didn't have any luck with clearasil. Even though my skin gets oily it really only gets miserable pimples when it's dry. Frequent lukewarm water rinses on the face might help. Getting the scalp thing under control might help (that could be as simple as submerging under the bathwater till it's softened and washing it out). Taking a one a day vitamin/mineral might help. I've heard iodine causes trouble and that it is used in fast food restaurants to sterilize equipment which might be where the belief that greasy foods cause acne came from. I notice grease on my face, not immediately removed will cause acne (even from eating meat). Keeping hair rinse, mousse, dip, and spray off the face will help. Warm water bath soaks or cloths on the face to soften the oil in the pores will help prevent blackheads. Body oil is hydrophilic, loves water and it softens and washes off when it has a chance. That's why hair goes limp with oilyness. Becoming convinced that the best thing to do with a whitehead is leave it alone will save him days of pimple misery. Any prying of black or whiteheads can cause infections, the red spots of pimples. Usually a whitehead will break naturally in a day and there won't be an infection afterwards. Tell him that it's normal to have some pimples but the cosmetic industry makes it's money off of selling people on the idea that they are an incredible defect to be hidden at any cost (even that of causing more pimples).
In my case I am alive thanks to a gun, that is provable.. even in your twisted logic. No... Wrong again brain trust.. Huh? What planet are you from? Wrong... Not as long as freedom remains .. PS: Get a Dictionary..
I wouldn't trust Mitre for another reason: remember "The Cuckoo's Egg"? How great was their security, eh? NSA - well, with the list of known "turncoats", does it make you wonder how many more unknown still are there? (:-) (:-( -- Regards, Uri. uri@watson.ibm.com scifi!angmar!uri
Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Honor one another above yourselves.
Hello, I am trying to hook an Apple Imagewriter to my IBM Clone. I seem to have a problem configuring my lpt port to accept this. How can you adjust baud, parity, etc. to fit the system? I tried MODE, but it did not work. If anyone can help, post of e-mail. Thanx.
Tommy Frandsen's VGAlib (which is probably what you're talking about) will do the standard VGA modes, some tweaked modes and then the Tseng ET4000 Super VGA modes. I have an ET4000 and I'm viewing GIF's at 640x480/256 (I have a lousy/small monitor) with dpg-view on Linux. I think I had to change some constants in the dpg-view sources to make it use the ET4k modes. VGAlib's sources seem to be designed for easy addition of new Super VGA support; each mode is an array of register values and there's a program that dumps an array declaration of this kind describing the current mode. Haven't tried it though... (Btw, my version of VGAlib is 1.2.)
It is a bit unfair to call blame the Clinton Administration alone...this initiative was underway under the Bush Administration...it is basically a bipartisan effort of the establishment Demopublicans and Republicrats...the same bipartisan effort that brought the S&L scandal, and BCCI, etc.
know he now. And Michael Jackson, Jack Nicholson, and Bill Cosby wouldn't be making near as much money if they weren't entertainers. So what's your point? for a hurting. Will they? You can't usually take away one of the team's best players and still expect them to win. Or do you think the Pirates will continue to win without Barry Bonds. athletic working So. Again, Jack Nicholson gets paid much more than most hard working citizens (and much more than Rickey Henderson for that matter). when the million--also, The reason the latter often happens is that many of these folks start making the real big salaries late in their career, when they are on the decline. (There are exceptions, of course. Dave Parker fell apart after making his first million because he put most of that million up his nose.)
Hi I am looking for Image Analysis software running in DOS or Windows. I'd like to be able to analyze TIFF or similar files to generate histograms of patterns, etc. Any help would be appreciated! __________________________________________________________________________
Koberg, Just a couple of minor corrections here... 1) The Churches of Christ do not usually believe in speaking in tongues, in fact many of them are known for being strongly opposed to Pentecostal teaching. You are probably thinking of Church of God in Christ, the largest African-American Pentecostal denomination. 2) I'm not sure what you mean by "signifying believers" but it should be pointed out that the Assemblies of God does not now, nor has it ever, held that speaking in tongues is the sign that one is a Christian. The doctrine that traditional Pentecostals (including the A/G) maintain is that speaking in tongues is the sign of a second experience after becoming a Christian in which one is "Baptized in the Holy Spirit" That may be what you were referring to, but I point this out because Pentecostals are frequently labeled as believing that you have to speak in tongues in order to be a Christian. Such a position is only held by some groups and not the majority of Pentecostals. Many Pentecostals will quote the passage in Mark 16 about "these signs following them that believe" but they generally do not interpret this as meaning if you don't pactice the signs you aren't "saved". 3) I know it's hard to summarize the beliefs of a movement that has such diversity, but I think you've made some pretty big generalizations here. Do "Neo-Pentecostals" only believe in tongues as a sign and tongues as prayer but NOT tongues as revelatory with a message? I've never heard of that before. In fact I would have characterized them as believing the same as Pentecostals except less likely to see tongues as a sign of Spirit Baptism. Also, while neo-Pentecostals may not be inclined to speak in tongues in the non-Pentecostal churches they attend, they do have their own meetings and, in many cases, a whole church will be charismatic.
Quoting strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) in article <strnlghtC5t3nH.Is1@netcom.com>:
Yes, this is certainly one of the traditional ideas about the Mithraic cult (although not the only one.) It had many elements that seem to have been borrowed by Catholicism (e.g. the Mass, communion, the sharing of a sacred meal, consecration of bread and wine, etc.) For quite an amusing novel that uses this same idea, check out: The Covenant of the Flame by David Morrell. It has some quite interesting occult bits, and lots of killing. I won't spoil it by revealing the ending, but I will say that it is relevant to Mithraism.
J> YOU BLASHEPHEMERS!!! YOU WILL ALL GO TO HELL FOR NOT BELIEVING IN GOD!!!! BE J> PREPARED FOR YOUR ETERNAL DAMNATION!!! Hmm, I've got my MST3K lunch box, my travel scrabble, and a couple of kegs of Bass Ale. I'm all set! Let's go everybody!
without active participation. If you know the Latin, one really beautiful way to hear the Passion is it's being chanted by three deacons: the Narrator chants in the middle baritone range, Jesus chants in the bass, and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor. I heard the Gregorian chant of the Passion on Good Friday. In this liturgy, our Lord is definitely *very* sad. It's as if He has resigned Himself to die for these poor pitiful creatures who are killing Him.
Hello , I think you are probaly right, in spite of the movement it is getting better each day. cheers
I am currently using POVRay on Mac and was wondering if anyone in netland knows of public domain anti-aliasing utilities so that I can skip this step in POV, very slow on this machine. Any suggestions, opinions about post-trace anti-aliasing would be greatly appreciated.
Since when does atheism mean trashing other religions?There must be a God of inbreeding to which you are his only son.
Archive-name: graphics/resources-list/part3 Last-modified: 1993/04/17 Computer Graphics Resource Listing : WEEKLY POSTING [ PART 3/3 ] =================================================== Last Change : 17 April 1993 11. Scene generators/geographical data/Maps/Data files ====================================================== DEMs (Digital Elevation Models) ------------------------------- DEMs (Digital Elevation Models) as well as other cartographic data [huge] is available from spectrum.xerox.com [192.70.225.78], /pub/map. Contact: Lee Moore -- Webster Research Center, Xerox Corp. -- Voice: +1 (716) 422 2496 Arpa, Internet: Moore.Wbst128@Xerox.Com [ Check also on ncgia.ucsb.edu (128.111.254.105), /pub/dems -- nfotis ] Many of these files are also available on CD-ROM selled by USGS: "1:2,000,000 scale Digital Line Graph (DLG) Data". Contains datas for all 50 states. Price is about $28, call to or visit in offices in Menlo Park, in Reston, Virginia (800-USA-MAPS). The Data User Services Division of the Bureau of the Census also has data on CD-ROM (TSO standard format) that is derived from USGS 1:100,000 map data. Call (301) 763-4100 for more info or they have a BBS at (301) 763-1568. [ From Dr.Dobbs #198 March 1993: ] "The U.S. Defense Mapping Agency, in cooperation with their counterpart agencies in CANADA, the U.K., and Australia, have released the Digital Chart of the World (DCW). This chart consists of over 1.5 gigabytes of reasonable quality vector data distributed on four CD-ROMS. .... includes coastlines, rivers, roads, railrays, airports,cities, towns, spot elevations, and depths, and over 100,000 place names." It is ISO9660 compatible and only $200.00 available from: U.S. Geological Survey P.O. Box 25286 Denver Federal Center Denver, CO 80225 Digital Distribution Services Energy, Mines, and Resources Canada 615 Booth Street Ottawa, ON K1A 0E9 Canada Director General of Military Survey (Survey 3) Elmwood Avenue Feltham, Middlesex TW13 7AH United Kingdom Director of Survey, Australian Army Department of Defense Campbell Park Offices (CP2-4-24) Campbell ACT 2601 Australia Fractal Landscape Generators ---------------------------- Public Domain: Many people have written fractal landscape generators. for example for the Mac some of these generators were written by pdbourke@ccu1.aukuni.ac.nz (Paul D. Bourke). Many of the programs are available from the FTP sites and mail archive servers. Check with Archie. Commercial: Vista Pro 3.0 for the Amiga from Virtual Reality Labs -- list price is about $100. Their address is: VRL 2341 Ganador court San Luis Obispo, CA 93401 Telephone or FAX (805) 545-8515 Scenery Animator (also for the Amiga) is of the same caliber with Vista Pro 2. Check with: Natural Graphics P.O. Box 1963 Raklin, CA 95677 Phone (916) 624-1436 Don't forget to ask about companion programs and data disks/tapes. Vista Pro 3 has been ported to the PCs. CIA World Map II ---------------- [ NOTE: this database is quite out of date, and not topologically structured. If you need a standard for world cartographic data, wait for the Digital Chart of the World. This 1:1M database has been produced from the Defense Mapping Agency's ONCs and will be available, together with searching and viewing software, on a number of CD-ROMs later this summer. ] Check into HANAUMA.STANFORD.EDU and UCSD.EDU (see ftp list above) The CIA database consists of coastlines, rivers and political boundaries in the form of line strokes. Also on hanauma.stanford.edu is a 720x360 array of elevation data, containing one ieee floating point number for every half degree longitude and latitude. A program for decoding the database, mfil, can be found on the machine pi1.arc.umn.edu (137.66.130.11). There's another program, which reads a compressed CIA Data Bank file and builds a PHIGS hierachical structure. It uses a PHIGS extension known as polyline sets for performance, but you can use regular polylines. Ask Joe Stewart <joes@lpi.liant.com>. The raw data at Stanford require the vplot package to be able to view it. (was posted in comp.sources.unix). To be more exact, you'll have to compile just the libvplot routines, not the whole package. NCAR data --------- NCAR (National Center for Atmospheric Research) has many types of terrain data, ranging from elevation datasets at various resolutions, to information about soil types, vegetation, etc. This data is not free -- they charge from $40 to $90 or more, depending on the data volume and media (exabyte tape, 3480 cartridge, 9-track tape, IBM PC floppy, and FTP transfer are all available). Their data archive is mostly research oriented, not hobbyist oriented. For more information, email to ilana@ncar.ucar.edu. UNC data tapes with voxel data -------------- There are 2 "public domain" tapes with data for the comparison and testing of various volume rendering algorithms (mainly MRI and CT scans). These tapes are distributed by the SoftLab of UNC @ Chapel Hill. (softlab@cs.unc.edu) The data sets (volume I and II) are also available via anonymous FTP from omicron.cs.unc.edu [128.109.136.159] in pub/softlab/CHVRTD NASA ---- Many US agencies such as NASA publish CD-ROMs with many altimetry data from various space missions, eg. Viking for Mars, Magellan for Venus, etc. Especially for NASA, I would suggest to call the following address for more info: National Space Science Date Center Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt, Maryland 20771 Telephone: (301) 286-6695 Email address: request@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov The data catalog (*not* the data itself) is available online. Internet users can telnet to nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov (128.183.10.4) and log in as 'NODIS' (no password). You can also dial in at (301)-286-9000 (300, 1200, or 2400 baud, 8 bits, no parity, one stop). At the "Enter Number:" prompt, enter MD and carriage return. When the system responds "Call Complete," enter a few more carriage returns to get the "Username:" and log in as 'NODIS' (no password). NSSDCA is also an anonymous FTP site, but no comprehensive list of what's there is available at present. Earth Sciences Data ------------------- There's a listing of anonymous FTP sites for earth science data, including imagery. This listing is called "Earth Sciences Resources on Internet", and you can get it via anonymous FTP from csn.org [128.138.213.21] in the directory COGS under the name "internet.resources.earth.sci" Some sites include: aurelie.soest.hawaii.edu [128.171.151.121]: pub/avhrr/images - AVHRR images ames.arc.nasa.gov [128.102.18.3]: pub/SPACE/CDROM - images from Magellan and Viking missions etc. pub/SPACE/Index contains a listing of files available in the whole archive (the index is about 200K by itself). There's also an e-mail server for the people without Internet access: send a letter to archive-server@ames.arc.nasa.gov (or ames!archive-server). In the subject of your letter (or in the body), use commands like: send SPACE Index send SPACE SHUTTLE/ss01.23.91 (Capitalization is important! Only text files are handled by the email server at present) vab02.larc.nasa.gov [128.155.23.47]: pub/gifs/misc/landsat - Landsat photos in GIF and JPEG format [ It was shut down - nfotis; anyone has a copy of this archive?? ] Others ------ Daily values of river discharge, streamflow, and daily weather data is available from EarthInfo, 5541 Central Ave., Boulder CO 80301. These disks are expensive, around $500, but there are quantity discounts. (303) 938-1788. Check vmd.cso.uiuc.edu [128.174.5.98], the wx directory carries data regarding surface analysis, weather radar, and sat view pics in GIF format (updated hourly) pioneer.unm.edu [129.24.9.217] is the Space and Planetary Image Facility (located on the University of New Mexico campus) FTP server. It provides Anonymous FTP access to >150 CD-ROMS with data/images. A disk with earthquake data, topography, gravity, geopolitical info is available from NGDC (National Geophysical Data Center), 325 Broadway, Boulder, CO 80303. (303) 497-6958. EOSAT (at least in the US) now sells Landsat MSS data older than two years old for $200 per scene, and they have been talking about a similar deal for Landsat TM data. The MSS data are 4 bands, 80 meter resolution. Check out anonymous FTP to ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu in UNIX/PolyView/alpha-shape for a tool that creates convex hulls alpha-shapes (a generalization of the convex hull) from 3D point sets. The GRIPS II (Gov. Raster Image Processing Software) CD-ROM is available from CD-ROM Inc. at 1-800-821-5245 for $49. Code for viewing ADRG (Arc Digitised Raster Graphics) files is available on the GRIPS II CD-ROM. The U.S. Army Engineer Topographic Labs (Juan Perez) code is also available via FTP ( adrg.zip archive in spectrum.xerox.com ) NRCC range data --------------- Rioux M., Cournoyer L. "The NRCC Three-Dimensional Image Data Files", Tech. Report, CNRC 29077, National Research Council Canada, Ottawa, Canada, 1988 [ From what I understand, these data are from a laser range finder, and you can a copy for research purposes ] ========================================================================== 12. 3D scanners - Digitized 3D Data =================================== a. Cyberware Labs, Monterey, CA, manufactures a 3D color laser digitizer which can be used to model parts of, or a complete, human body. They run a service bureau also, so they can digitize models for you. Address: Cyberware Labs, Inc 8 Harris Ct, Suite 3D Monterey, CA 93940 Phone: (408)373-1441, Fax: (408)373-3582 b. Polhemus makes a 6D input device (actually a couple of models) that senses position (3D) and *orientation* (+3D) based on electromagnetic field interference. This equipment is also incorporated in the VPL Dataglove. This hardware is also called ISOTRACK, from Keiser Aerospace. Ascension Technology makes a similar 3D input device. There is a company, Applied Sciences(?), that makes a 3D input device (position only) based on speed of sound triangulation. c. A company that specializes in digitizing is Viewpoint. You can ask for Viewpoint's _free_ 100 page catalog full of ready to ship datasets from categories such as cars, anatomy, aircraft,sports, boats, trains, animals and others. Though these objects are quite expensive, the cataloge is nevertheless of interest for it has pictures of all the available objects in wireframe , polygon mesh. Contact: Viewpoint, 870 West Center, Orem, Utah 84057 ph# 801-224-2222 fax# 801-224-2272 1-800-DATASET ------ Some addresses for companies that make digitizers: Ascension Technology Bird, Flock of Birds, Big Bird: 6d trackers P.O. Box 527, Burlington, VT 05402 Phone: (802) 655-7879, Fax: (802) 655-5904 Polhemus Incorporated Digitizer: 6d trackers P.O. Box 560, Hercules Dr. Colchester, Vt. 05446 Tel: (802) 655-3159 Logitech Inc. Red Baron, ultrasonic 6D mouse 6506 Kaiser Dr. Freemont, CA 94555 Tel: (415) 795-8500w Shooting Star Technology Mechanical Headtracker 1921 Holdom Ave. Burnaby, B.C. Canada V5B 3W4 Tel: (604) 298-8574 Fax: (604) 298-8580 Spaceball Technologies, Inc. Spaceball: 6d stationary input device 600 Suffolk Street Lowell, MA, 01854 Tel: (508) 970-0330 Fax: (508) 970-0199 Tel in Mountain View: (415) 966-8123 Transfinite Systems Gold Brick: PowerGlove for Macintosh P.O. Box N MIT Branch Post Office Cambridge, MA 02139-0903 Tel: (617) 969-9570 email: D2002@AppleLink.Apple.com VPL Research, Inc. EyePhone: head-mounted display DataGlove: glove/hand input device VPL Research Inc. 950 Tower Lane 14th Floor Foster City, CA 94404 Tel: (415) 312-0200 Fax: (415) 312-9356 SimGraphics Engineering Flying Mouse: 6d input device 1137 Huntington Rd. Suite A-1 South Pasadena, CA 91030-4563 (213) 255-0900 ======================================================================== 13. Background imagery/textures/datafiles ========================================= First, check in the FTP places that are mentioned in the FAQ or in the FTP list above. 24-bit scanning: ---------------- Get a good 24-bit scanner, like Epson's. Suggested is an SCSI port for speed. Eric Haines had a suggestion in RT News, Volume 4, #3 : scan textures for wallpapers and floor coverings, etc. from doll house supplies. So you have a rather cheap way to scan patterns that don't have scaling troubles associated with real materials and scanning area. Books with textures: -------------------- Find some houses/books/magazines that carry photographic material. Educorp, 1-619-536-9999, sells CD-ROMS with various imagery - also a wide variety of stock art is available. Stock art from big-name stock art houses, such as Comstock, UNIPHOTO, and Metro Image Base, is available. In Italy, there's a company called Belvedere that makes such books for the purpose of clipping their pages for inclusion in your graphics work. Their address is: Edition Belvedere Co. Ltd., 00196 Rome Italy, Piazzale Flaminio, 19 Tel. (06) 360-44-88, Fax (06) 360-29-60 Texture Libraries: ------------------ a. Mannikin Sceptre Graphics announced TexTiles, a set of 256x256 24-bit textures. Initial shipments in 24-bit IFF (for Amigas), soon in 24-bit TIFF format. Algorithmically built for tiled surfaces. SRP is $40 / volume (each volume = 40 images @ 10 disks). Demo disks for $5 are available. Contact: Mannikin Sceptre Graphics 1600 Indiana Ave. Winter Park, FL 32789 Phone: (407) 384-9484 FAX: (407) 647-7242 b. ESSENCE is a library of 65 (sixty-five) new algoritmic textures for Imagine by Impulse, Inc. These textures are FULLY compatible with the floating point versions of Imagine 2.0, Imagine 1.1, and even Turbo Silver. Written by Steve Worley. For more info contact: Essence Info Apex Software Publishing 405 El Camino Real Suite 121 Menlo Park CA 94025 USA [ What about Texture City ?? ] ========================================================================== 14. Introduction to rendering algorithms ======================================== a. Ray-Tracing: --------------- I assume you have a general understanding of Computer Graphics. No? Then read some of the books that the FAQ contains. For Ray-Tracing, I would suggest: An Introduction to Ray Tracing, Andrew Glassner (ed.), Academic Press 1989, ISBN 0-12-286160-4 Note that I have not read the book, but I feel that you can't be wrong using his book. An errata list was posted in comp.graphics by Eric Haines (erich@eye.com) There's a more concise reference also: Roman Kuchkuda , UNC @ Chapel Hill: "An Introduction to Ray Tracing", in "Theoretical Foundations for Computer Graphics and CAD", ed. R.A.E.Earnshaw, NATO AS, Vol. F-40., pp. 1039-1060. Printed by Springer-Verlag, 1988. It contains code for a small, but fundamentally complete ray-tracer. b. Z-buffer (depth-buffer) -------------------------- A good reference is: _Procedural Elements for Computer Graphics_, David F. Rogers, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1985, pages 265-272 and 280-284. c. Others: ---------- ??? [ More info is needed -- nfotis ] ======================================================================== 15. Where can I find the geometric data for the: ================================================ a. Teapot ? ----------- "Displays on Display" column of IEEE CG&A Jan '87 has the whole story about origin of the Martin Newell's teapot. The article also has the bezier patch model and a Pascal program to display the wireframe model of the teapot. IEEE CG&A Sep '87 in Jim Blinn's column "Jim Blinn's Corner" describes an another way to model the teapot; Bezier curves with rotations for example are used. The OFF and SPD packages have these objects, so you're advised to get them to avoid typing the data yourself. The OFF data is triangles at a specific resolution (around 8x8[x4 triangles] meshing per patch). The SPD package provides the spline patch descriptions and performs a tessellation at any specified resolution. b. Space Shuttle ? ------------------ Tolis Lerios <tolis@nova.stanford.edu> has built a list of Space Shuttle datafiles. Here's a summary (From his sci.space list): model1: A modified version of the newsgroup model (model2) 406 vertices (296 useful, i.e. referred to in the polygon descriptions.) 389 polygons (233 3-vertex, 146 4-vertex, 7 5-vertex, 3 6-vertex). Payload doors non-existent. Units: unknown. Simon Marshall (S.Marshall@sequent.cc.hull.ac.uk) has a copy. He said there is no proprietary information associated with it. model2: The newsgroup model, in OFF format. You can find it in gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au , file pub/off/objects/shuttle.geo hanauma.stanford.edu , /pub/graphics/Comp.graphics/objects/shuttle.data model3: The triangles' model. This model is stored in several files, each defining portions of the model. Greg Henderson (henders@infonode.ingr.com) has a copy. He did not mention any restriction on the model's distribution. model4: The NASA model. The file starts off with a header line containing three real numbers, defining the offsets used by Lockheed in their simulations: <x offset> <y offset> <z offset> From then on, the file consists of a sequence of polygon descriptions 3473 vertices. 2748 polygons (407 3-vertex, 2268 4-vertex, 33 5-vertex, 14 6-vertex, 10 7-vertex, 8 8-vertex, 8 12-vertex, 2 13-vertex, 2 15-vertex, 17 16-vertex, 2 17-vertex, 2 18-vertex, 3 19-vertex, 8 24-vertex). Payload doors closed. Units: inches. Jon Berndt (jon@l14h11.jsc.nasa.gov) seems to be responsible for the model Proprietary info: unknown model5: The old shuttle model. The file consists of a sequence of polygon descriptions. 104 vertices. 452 polygons (11 3-vertex, 41 4-vertex). Payload doors open. Units: meters. We have been using this model at STAR Labs, Stanford University, for some years now. Contact me (tolis@nova.stanford.edu) or my supervisor Scott Williams (scott@star5.stanford.edu) if you want a copy. ======================================================================== 16. Image annotation software ============================= a. Touchup runs in Sunview and is pretty good. It reads in rasterfiles, but even if your image isn't normally stored in rasterfile format you could use screendump to make it a rasterfile. b. Idraw (part of Stanford's InterViews distribution) can handle some image formats in addition to being a MacDraw like tool. I'm not sure exactly what they are. You can ftp the idraw's binary from interviews.stanford.edu. c. Tgif is another MacDraw like tool that can handle X11 bitmap (xbm) and X11 pixmap (xpm) formats. If the image you have is in formats other than xbm or xpm, you can get the pbmplus toolkit to convert things like gif or even some Macintosh formats to xpm. Tgif's sources are available in the pub directory on cs.ucla.edu (Version 2.12 of tgif at patchlevel 7 plus patch8 and patch9) d. Use the editimage facility of KHOROS (see below). This is just one utility in the overall system- you can essentially do all your image processing and macdraw-type graphics using this package. e. You might be able to get by with PBMPlus. pbmtext gives you text output bitmaps which can be overlaid on top of your image. f. 'ice' requires Sun hardware running OpenWindows 3.It's a PostScript-based graphical editor,and it's available for anonymous ftp from Internet host eo.soest.hawaii.edu (128.171.151.12). Requires Sun C++ 2.0 and two other locally developed packages, the LXT library (an Xlib-based toolkit) and a small C++ class library. All files (pub/ice.tar.Z, pub/lxt.tar.Z and pub/ldgoc++.tar.Z) are available in compressed tar format. pub/ice.tar.Z contains a README that gives installation instructions, as well as an extensive man page (ice.1). A statically-linked compressed executable pub/ice-sun4.Z for SPARC systems is also available for ftp. All software is the property of Columbia University and may not be redistributed without permission. ice means Image Composition Environment and it's an imaging tool that allows raster images to be combined with a wide variety of PostScript annotations in WYSIWYG fashion via X11 imaging routines and NeWS PostScript rasterizing. g. Use ImageMagick to annotate an image from your X server. Pick the position of your text with the cursor and choose your font and pen color from a pull-down menu. ImageMagick can read and write many of the more popular image formats. ImageMagick is available as export.lcs.mit.edu: contrib/ImageMagick.tar.Z or at your nearest X11 archive. ======================================================================== 17. Scientific visualization stuff ================================== X Data Slice (xds) ------------------- Bundled with the X11 distribution from MIT, in the contrib directory. Available at ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu [141.142.20.50] (either as a source or binaries for various platforms). National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) Tool Suite ----------------------------------------------------------------- Platforms: Unix Workstations (DEC, IBM, SGI, Sun) Apple MacIntosh Cray supercomputers Availability: Now available. Source code in the public domain. FTP from ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu. Contact: National Center for Supercomputing Applications Computing Applications Building 605 E. Springfield Ave. Champaign, IL 61820 Cost: Free (zero dollars). The suite includes tools for 2D image and 3D scene analysis and visualization. The code is actively maintained and updated. Spyglass -------- They sell commercial versions of the NCSA tools. Examples are: Spyglass Dicer (3D volumetric data analysis package) Platform: Mac Spyglass Transform (2D data analysis package) Platforms: Mac, SGI, Sun, DEC, HP, IBM Contact: Spyglass, Inc. P.O. Box 6388 Champaign, IL 61826 (217) 355-6000 KHOROS 1.0 Patch 5 ------------------ Available via anonymous ftp at pprg.eece.unm.edu (129.24.24.10). cd to /pub/khoros to see what is available. It is HUGE (> 100 MB), but good. Needs Unix and X11R4. Freely copied (NOT PD), complete with sources and docs. Very extensive and at its heart is visual programming. Khoros components include a visual programming language, code generators for extending the visual language and adding new application packages to the system, an interactive user interface editor, an interactive image display package, an extensive library of image and signal processing routines, and 2D/3D plotting packages. See comp.soft-sys.khoros on Usenet and the relative FAQ for more info.... Contact: The Khoros Group Room 110 EECE Dept. University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131 Email: khoros-request@chama.eece.unm.edu MacPhase -------- Analysis & Visualization Application for the Macintosh. Operates on 1D and 2D data arrays. Import/Export several different file formats. Several different plotting options such as gray scale, color raster, 3D Wire frame, 3D surface, contour, vector, line, and combinations. FFTs, filtering, and other math functions, color look up editor, array calculator, etc. Shareware, available via anonymous ftp from sumex-aim.stanford.edu in the info-mac/app directory. For other information contact Doug Norton (e-mail: 74017.461@@compuserve.com) IRIS Explorer ------------- It's an application creation system developed by Silicon Graphics that provides visualisation and analysis functionality for computational scientists, engineers and other scientists. The Explorer GUI allows users to build custom applications without having to write any, or a minimal amount of, traditonal code. Also, existing code can be easily integrated into the Explorer environment. Explorer currently is available now on SGI and Cray machines, but will become available on other platforms in time. [ Bundled with every new SGI machine, as far as I know] See comp.graphics.explorer or comp.sys.sgi for discussion of the package. There are also two FTP servers for related stuff, modules etc.: ftp.epcc.ed.ac.uk [129.215.56.29] swedishchef.lerc.nasa.gov [139.88.54.33] - mirror of the UK site apE --- Back in the 'old good days', you could get apE for nearly free. Now has gone commercial and the following vendor supplies it: TaraVisual Corporation 929 Harrison Avenue Columbus, Ohio 43215 Tel: 1-800-458-8731 and (614) 291-2912 Fax: (614) 291-2867 Cost: $895 (plus tax); runtime version with a site-license for a single user (at a time), no limit on the number of machines in a cluster. $895 includes support/maintenance and upgrades. Source code more. Additional user licenses $360. The name of the package has become apE III (TM). Khoros is very similar to apE on philosophy, as are AVS and Explorer. AVS --- See also: comp.graphics.avs Platforms: CONVEX, CRAY, DEC, Evans & Sutherland, HP, IBM, Kubota, Set Technologies, SGI, Stardent, SUN, Wavetracer Availability: AVS4 available on all the above: For all UNIX workstations. Contact: Advanced Visual Systems Inc. 300 Fifth Ave. Waltham, MA 02154 (617)-890-4300 Telephone (617)-890-8287 Fax avs@avs.com Email Advanced Visual Systems Inc. for: CRAY, HP, IBM, SGI, Stardent, SUN CONVEX for CONVEX Advanced Visual Systems Inc. or CRAY for CRAY DEC for DEC Evans & Sutherland for Evans & Sutherland Advanced Visual Systems Inc. or IBM for IBM Kubota Pacific Inc. for Kubota Set Technologies for Set Technologies Wavetracer for Wavetracer FTP Site: for modules, data sets, other info: avs.ncsc.org (128.109.178.23) WIT --- In a nutshell it's a package of the same genre as AVS,Explorer,etc. It seems more a image processing system than a generic SciVi system (IMHO) Major elements are: - a visual programming language, which automatically exploits the inherent parallelism - a code generator which converts the graph to a standalone program Iconified libraries present a rich set of point, filter, io, transform, morphological, segmentation, and measurement operations. A flow library allows graphs to employ broadcast, merge, synchronization, conditional, and sequencing control strategies. WIT delivers an object-oriented, distributed, visual programming environment which allows users to rapidly design solutions to their imaging problems. Users can consolidate both software and hardware developments within a complete CAD-like workspace by adding their own operators (C functions), objects (data structures), and servers (specialized hardware). WIT runs on Sun, HP9000/7xx, SGI and supports Datacube MV-20/200 hardware allowing you to run your graphs in real-time. For a free WIT demo disk, call, FAX, or e-mail (poon@ee.ubc.ca) us stating your complete name, address, voice, FAX, e-mail info. and desired platform. Pricing: WIT for Sparc, one yr. free upgrades, 30 days technical support....................$5000 US Academic institutions: discounts available Contact: Logical Vision Ltd. Suite 108-3700 Gilmore Way Burnaby, B.C., CANADA V5G 4M1 Tel: 604-435-2587 Fax: 604-435-8840 Terry Arden <poon@ee.ubc.ca> VIS-5D ------ A system for visually exploring the output of 5-D gridded data sets such as those made by weather models. Platforms: SGI IRIS with VGX, GTX, TG, or G graphics, SGI Crimson or Indigo (R4000, Elan graphics suggested), IRIX 4.0.x IBM RS/6000 with GL graphics, AIX version 3 or later; Stardent GS-1000 and GS-2000 (with TrueColor display) In any case, 32 (or more) MB of RAM are suggested. You can get it freely (thanks to NASA support) via anonymous ftp: ftp iris.ssec.wisc.edu (or ftp 144.92.108.63), then ftp> cd pub/vis5d ftp> ascii ftp> get README ftp> bye NOTE: You can find the package also on wuarchive.wustl.edu in the graphics/graphics/packages directory. Read section 2 of the README file for full instructions on how to get and install VIS-5D. Contact: Bill Hibbard (whibbard@vms.macc.wisc.edu) Brian Paul (bpaul@vms.macc.wisc.edu) DATAexplorer (IBM) ------------------ Platforms : IBM Risc System 6000, IBM POWER Visualization Server (SIMD mesh 32 i860s, 40 MHz) Working on (announced) : SGI, HP, Sun Contact: Your local IBM Rep. For a trial package ask your rep to contact : David Kilgore Data Explorer Product Marketing YKTVMH(KILCORE), (708) 981-4510 Wavefront --------- Data Visualizer, Personal Visualizer, Advanced Visualizer. Platforms: SGI, SUN, IBM RS6000, HP, DEC Availability: Available on all the above platforms from Wavefront Technologies. Educational programs and site licenses are available. Contacts: Mike Wilson (mike@wti.com) Wavefront Technologies, Inc. 530 East Montecito Street Santa Barbara, CA 93103 805-962-8117 FAX: 805-963-0410 Wavefront Europe Guldenspoorstraat 21-23 B-9000 Gent, Belgium 32-91-25-45-55 FAX: 32-91-23-44-56 Wavefront Technologies Japan 17F Shinjuku-sumitomo Bldg 2-6-1 Nishi-shinjuku, Shunjuku-Ku Tokyo 168 Japan 81-3-3342-7330 FAX 81-3-3342-7353 PLOT3D and FAST from NASA Ames ------------------------------ These packages are distributed from COSMIC at least (for FAST ask Pat Elson <pelson@nas.nasa.gov> for distribution information). In general, these codes are for US citizens only :-( XGRAPH ------ On the contrib tape of X11R5. Its specialty is display of up to 64 data sets (2D). NCAR ---- National Center for Atmospheric Research. One of the original graphics packages. Runs on Sun, RS6000, SGI, VAX, Cray Y-MP, DecStations, and more. Contact: Graphics Information NCAR Scientific Computing Division P.O. Box 3000 Boulder, CO 80307-3000 (303)-497-1201 scdinfo@ncar.ucar.edu Cost: .edu $750 Unlimited users .gov $750 1 user $1500 5 users $3000 25 users .com users multiply .gov * 2.0 IDL --- An environment for scientific computing and visualization. Based on an array oriented language, IDL includes 2D and 3D graphics, matrix manupulation, signal and image processing, basic statistics, gridding, mapping, and a widget based system for building GUI for IDL applications (Open Look, Motif, or MS-Windows). Environments: DEC (VMS and Ultrix), HP, IBM RS6000, SGI, Sun, Microsoft Windows. (Mac version in progress) Cost: $1500 to $3750, Educational and quantity discounts available. See also: comp.lang.idl-pvwave (the IDL-PVWAVE bundle) Contact: Research Systems Inc. 777 29th Street, Suite 302 Boulder, CO 80303 Phone: 303-786-9900 FAX: 303-786-9909 E-mail: info@rsinc.com Demo available via FTP. Call or E-mail for details. IDL/SIPS -------- "A lot of people are using IDL with a package called SIPS. This was developed at the University of Colorado (Boulder) by some people working for Alex Goetz. You might try contacting them if you already have IDL or would be willing to buy it. It's a few thousand dollars (American) I expect for IDL and the other should be free. Those are the general purpose packages I've heard of, besides what TerraMar has. SIPS _was_ written for AVIRIS imagery. I'm not sure how general purpose it is. You would have to contact Goetz or one of his people and ask. I have another piece of software (PCW) that does PC and Walsh transformations with pseudocoloring and clustering and limited image modification (you can compute an image using selected components). I've used it on 70 megabyte AVIRIS images without problems, but for the best speed you need an external DSP card. It will work without it, but large images take quite a while (50-70 times as long) to process. That's a freebie if you want it" "My favorite is IDL (Interactive Data Language) from Research Systems, Inc. IDL is in my opinion, much better and infinitely easier. Its programming language is very strong and easy -- very Pascal-like. It handles the number-crunching very well, also. Personally, I like doing the number-crunching with IDL on the VAX (or Mathematica, Igor, or even Excel on the Mac if it's not too hairy), then bringing it over to NIH Image for the imaging part. I have yet to encounter any situation which that combination couldn't handle, and the speed and ease of use (compared to IRAF) was incredible. By the way, it's mostly astronomical image processing which I've been doing. This means image enhancement, cleaning up bad lines/pixels, and some other traditional image processing routines. Then, for example, taking a graph of intensity versus position along a line I choose with the mouse, then doing a curve fit to that line (which I might do like in KaleidaGraph.) " [ For IDL call Research Systems , for PV-WAVE call Precision Visuals and for SIPS call University of Colorado @ Boulder . From what I can understand, you can get packaged programs from Research Systems, though -- nfotis ] Visual3 ------- contact Robert Haimes, MIT FieldView --------- An interactive program designed to assist an engineer in investigating fluid dynamics data sets. Platforms: SGI, IBM, HP, SUN, X-terminals Availability: Currently available on all of the above platforms. Educational programs and volume discounts are available. Contact: Intelligent Light P.O. Box 65 Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 (201)794-7550 Steve Kramer (kramer@ilight.com) SciAn ------ SciAn is primarily intended to do 3-D visualizations of data in an interactive environment with the ability to generate animations using frame-accurate video recording devices. A user manual, on-line help, and technical notes will help you use the program. Cost : 0 (Free), source code provided via ftp. Platforms : SGI 4D machines and IBM RS/6000 with the GL card + Z-buffer Where to find it: ftp.scri.fsu.edu [144.174.128.34] : /pub/SciAn A mirror is monu1.cc.monash.edu.au [130.194.1.101] : /pub/SciAn SCRY ---- [ From the README : ] Scry is a distributed image handling system that pro- vides image transport and compression on local and wide area networks, image viewing on workstations, recording on video equipment, and storage on disk. The system can be distri- buted among workstations, between supercomputers and works- tations, and between supercomputers, workstations and video animation controllers. The system is most commonly used to produce video based movie displays of images resulting from visualization of time dependent data, complex 3D data sets, and image processing operations. Both the clients and servers run on a variety of systems that provide UNIX-like C run-time environments, and 4BSD sockets. The source is available for anonymous ftp: csam.lbl.gov [128.3.254.6] : pub/scry.tar.Z Contact: Bill Johnston, (wejohnston@lbl.gov, ...ucbvax!csam.lbl.gov!johnston) or David Robertson (dwrobertson@lbl.gov, ...ucbvax!csam.lbl.gov!davidr) Imaging Technologies Group MS 50B/2239 Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory 1 Cyclotron Road Berkeley, CA 94720 SVLIB / FVS ----------- SVLIB is an X-Windows widget set based on the OSF (Open Software Foundation) Motif widget set. SVLIB widgets are macro-widgets comprising lower level Motif widgets such as buttons, scrollbars, menus, and drawing areas. It is designed to address the reusability of 2D visualization routines and each widget in the library is an encapsulation of a specific visualization technique such as colormap manipulation, image display, and contour plotting. It is targetted to run on UNIX workstations supporting OSF/Motif. Currently, only color monitors are supported. Since SVLIB is a collection of widgets developed in the same spirit as the OSF/Motif user interface widget set, it integrates seamlessly with the Motif widgets. Programmers using SVLIB widgets see the same interface and design as other Motif widgets. FVS is a visualization software for Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) simulations. FVS is designed to accept data generated from these simulations and apply various visualization techniques to present these data graphically. FVS accepts three-dimensional multi-block data recorded in NCSA HDF format. iti.gov.sg [192.122.132.130] : /pub/svlib (Scientific Visualization) /pu/fvs; These directories contain demo binaries for Sun4/SGI Cost : US$200 for academic and US$300 for non-academic institutions. (For each of the above items). You're getting the source for the licence. Contact ------- Miss Quek Lee Hian Member of Technical Staff Information Technology Institute National Computer Board NCB Building 71, Sicence Park Drive Singapore 0511 Republic of Singapore Tel : (65)7720435 Fax : (65)7795966 Email : leehian@iti.gov.sg --------------------------------------------------------- GVLware Distribution: Bob - An interactive volume renderer for the SGI Raz - A disk based movie player for the SGI Icol - Motif color editor --------------------------------------------------------- The Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC) has been developing a set of tools to work with large time dependent 2D and 3D data sets. In the Graphics and Visualization Lab (GVL) we are using these tools along side standard packages, such as SGI Explorer and the Utah Raster Toolkit, to render 3D volumes and create digital movies. A couple of the more general purpose programs have been bundled into a package called "GVLware". GVLware, currently consisting of Bob, Raz and Icol, is now available via ftp. The most interesting program is probably Bob, an interactive volume renderer for the SGI. Raz streams raster images from disk to an SGI screen, enabling movies larger than memory to be played. Icol is a color map editor that works with Bob and Raz. Source and pre-built binaries for IRIX 4.0.5 are included. To acquire GVLware, anonymous ftp to: machine - ftp.arc.umn.edu file - /pub/gvl.tar.Z To use GVLware: mkdir gvl ; cd gvl zcat gvl.tar.Z | tar xvf - more README Some Bob features: Motif interface, SGI GL rendering Renders 64 cubed data set in 0.1 to 1.0 seconds on a VGX Alpha Compositing and Maximum Value rendering, in perspective (only Maximum Value rendering on Personal Iris) Data must be a "Brick of Bytes", on a regularly spaced grid Animation, subvolumes, subsampling, stereo Some Raz features: Motif interface, SGI GL rendering Loads files to a raw disk partition, then streams to screen (requires an empty disk partition to be set aside) Script interface available for movie sequences Can stream from memory, like NCSA XImage Some Icol features: Motif interface Easy to create interpolated color maps between key points RGB, HSV and YUV color spaces, multiple file formats Communicates changes automatically to Bob and Raz Has been tested on SGI, Sun, DEC and Cray systems BTW: Bob == Brick of Bytes Icol == Interpolated Color Raz == ? (just a name) Please send any comments to gvlware@ahpcrc.umn.edu This software collection is supported by the Army Research Office contract number DAALO3-89-C-0038 with the University of Minnesota Army High Performance Computing Research Center. IAP --- Imaging Applications Platform is a commercial package for medical and scientific visualization. It does volume rendering, binary surface rendering, multiplanar reformating, image manipulation, cine sequencing, intermixes geometry and text with images and provides measurement and coordinate transform abilities. It can provide hardcopy on most medical film printers, image database functionality and interconnection to most medical (CT/MRI/etc) scanners. It is client/server based and provides an object oriented interface. It runs on most high performance workstations and takes full advantage of parallelism where it is available. It is robust, efficient and will be submitted for FDA approval for use in medical applications. Cost: $20K for OEM developer, $10K for educational developer and run times starting at $8900 and going down based on quantity. The developer packages include two days training for two people in Toronto. Available from: ISG Technologies 6509 Airport Road Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, L4V-1S7 (416) 672-2100 e-mail: Rod Gilchrist <rod@isgtec.com> ======================================================================== 18. Molecular visualization stuff ================================= [ Based on a list from cristy@dupont.com < Cristy > , which asked for systems for displaying Molecular Dynamics, MD for short ] Flex ---- It is a public domain package written by Michael Pique, at The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA. Flex is stored as a compressed, tar'ed archive (about 3.4MB) at perutz.scripps.edu [137.131.152.27], in pub/flex. It displays molecular models and MD trajectories. MacMolecule ----------- (for Macintosh). I searched with Archie, and the most promising place is sumex-aim.stanford.edu (info-mac/app, and info-mac/art/qt for a demo) MD-DISPLAY ---------- Runs on SGI machines. Call Terry Lybrand (lybrand@milton.u.washington.edu). XtalView -------- It is a crystallography package that does visualize molecules and much more. It uses the XView toolkit. Call Duncan McRee <dem@scripps.edu> landman@hal.physics.wayne.edu: ----------------------------- I am writing my own visualization code right now. I look at MD output (a specific format, easy to alter for the subroutine) on PC's. My program has hooks into GKS. If your friend has access to Phigs for X (PEX) and fortran bindings, I would be happy to share my evolving code (free of charge). Right now it can display supercells of up to 65 atoms (easy to change), and up to 100 time steps, drawing nearest neighbor bonds between 2 defining nn radii. It works acceptably fast on a 10Mhz 286. icsg0001@caesar.cs.montana.edu: ------------------------------ I did a project on Molecular Visualization for my Master's Thesis, using UNIX/X11/Motif which generates a simple point and space-filling model. KGNGRAF ------- KGNGRAF is part of MOTECC-91. Look on malena.crs4.it (156.148.7.12), in pub/motecc. motecc.info.txt Information about MOTECC-91 in plain ascii format. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- motecc.info.troff Information about MOTECC-91 in troff format. motecc.form.troff MOTECC-91 order form in troff format. motecc.license.troff MOTECC-91 license agreement in troff format. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- motecc.info.ps Information about MOTECC-91 in PostScript format. motecc.form.ps MOTECC-91 order form in PostScript format. motecc.license.ps MOTECC-91 license agreement in PostScript format. ditolla@itnsg1.cineca.it: ------------------------ I'm working on molecular dynamic too. A friend of mine and I have developed a program to display an MD run dynamically on Silicon Graphics. We are working to improve it, but it doesn't work under X, we are using the graphi. lib. of the Silicon Gr. because they are much faster then X. When we'll end it we'll post on the news info about where to get it with ftp. (Will be free software). XBall V2.0 ---------- Written by David Nedde. Call daven@maxine.wpi.edu. XMol ---- An X Window System program that uses OSF/Motif for the display and analysis of molecular model data. Data from several common file formats can be read and written; current formats include: Alchemy, CHEMLAB-II, Gaussian, MOLSIM, MOPAC, PDB, and MSCI's XYZ format (which has been designed for simplicity in translating to and from other formats). XMol also allows for conversion between several of these formats. Xmol is available at ftp.msc.edu. Read pub/xmol/README for further details. INSIGHT II ---------- from BIOSYM Technologies Inc. SCARECROW --------- The program has been published in J. Molecular Graphics 10 (1992) 33. The program can analyze and display CHARMM, DISCOVER, YASP and MUMOD trajectories. The program package contains also software for the generation of probe surfaces, proton affinity surfaces and molecular orbitals from an extended Huckel program. It works on Silicon Graphics machines. Contact Leif Laaksonen <Leif.Laaksonen@csc.fi or laaksone@csc.fi> MULTI ----- ns.niehs.nih.gov [157.98.8.8] : /pub - MULTI 3.0 (Multi-Process Molecular Modeling Suite) +MindTool +-------- + It runs under SunView, and requires a fortran compiler and Sun's CGI + libraries. MindTool is a tool provided for the interactive graphic + manipulation of molecules and atoms. Currently, up to 10,000 + atoms may be input. + Available via anonymous FTP, at rani.chem.yale.edu, directory + /pub/MindTool ( Check with Archie for other sites if that's too far ) [ I would also suggest looking at least in SGI's Applications Directory. It contains many more packages - nfotis ] =========================================================================== 19. GIS (Geographical Information Systems software) =================================================== GRASS ----- (Geographic Resource Analysis Support System) of the US Army Construction Engineering Research Lab (CERL). It is a popular geographic and remote sensing image processing package. Many may think of GRASS as a Geographic Information System rather than an Image Processing package, although it is reported to have significant image processing capabilities. Feature Descriptions I use GRASS because it's public domain and can be obtained through the internet for free. GRASS runs in Unix and is written in C. The source code can be obtained through an anonymous ftp from the Office of Grass Integration. You then compile the source code for your machine, using scripts provided with GRASS. I would recommend GRASS for someone who already has a workstation and is on a limited budget. GRASS is not very user-friendly, compared to Macintosh software." A first review of overview documentation indicates that it looks useful and has some pixel resampling functions not in other packages plus good general purpose image enhancement routines (fft). Kelly Maurice at Vexcel Corp. in Boulder, CO is a primary user of GRASS . This gentleman has used the GRASS software and developed multi-spectral (238 bands ??) volumetric rendering, full color, on Suns and Stardents. It was a really effective interface. Vexcel Corp. currently has a contract to map part of Venus and convert the Magellan radar data into contour maps. You can call them at (303) 444-0094 or email care of greg@vexcel.com 192.92.90.68 Host Configuration Requirements If you are willing to run A/UX you could install GRASS on a Macintosh which has significant image analysis and import capabilities for satellite data. GRASS is public-domain, and can run on a high-end PC under UNIX. It is raster-based, has some image-processing capability, and can display vector data (but analysis must be done in the raster environment). I have used GRASS V.3 on a SUN workstation and found it easy to use. It is best, of course, for data that are well represented in raster (grid-cell) form. Availability CERL's Office of Grass Integration (OGI) maintains an ftp server: moon.cecer.army.mil (129.229.20.254). Mail regarding this site should be addressed to grass-ftp-admin@moon.cecer.army.mil. This location will be the new "canonical" source for GRASS software, as well as bug fixes, contributed sources, documentation, and other files. This FTP server also supports dynamic compression and uncompression and "tar" archiving of files. A feature attraction of the server is John Parks' GRASS tutorial. Because the manual is still in beta-test stage, John requests that people only acquire it if they are willing to review it and mail him comments/corrections. The OGI is not currently maintaining this document, so all correspondence about it should be directed to grassx@tang.uark.edu Support Listserv mailing lists: grassu-list@amber.cecer.army.mil (for GRASS users; application-level questions, support concerns, miscellaneous questions, etc) Send subscribe commands to grassu-request@amber.cecer.army.mil. grassp-list@amber.cecer.army.mil (for GRASS programmers; system-level questions and tips, tricks, and techniques of design and implementation of GRASS applications) Send subscribe commands to grassp-request@amber.cecer.army.mil. Both lists are maintained by the Office of Grass Integration (subset of the Army Corps of Engineers Construction Engineering Research Lab in Champaign, IL). The OGI is providing the lists as a service to the community; while OGI and CERL employees will participate in the lists, we can make no claim as to content or veracity of messages that pass through the list. If you have questions, problems, or comments, send E-mail to lists-owner@amber.cecer.army.mil and a human will respond. Microstation Imager ------------------- Intergraph (based in Huntsville Alabama) sells a wide range of GIS software/hardware. Microstation is a base graphics package that Imager sits on top of. Imager is basically an image processing package with a heavy GIS/remote sensing flavor. Feature Description Basic geometry manipulations: flip, mirror, rotate, generalized affine. Rectification: Affine, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th order models as well as a projective model (warp an image to a vector map or to another image). RGB to IHS and IHS to RGB conversion. Principal component analysis. Classification: K-means and isodata. Fourier Xforms: Forward, filtering and reverse. Filters: High pass, low pass, edge enhancing, median, generic. Complex Histogram/Contrast control. Layer Controller: manages up to 64 images at a time -- user can extract single bands from a 3 band image or create color images by combining various individual bands, etc. The package is designed for a remote sensing application (it can handle VERY LARGE images) and there is all kinds of other software available for GIS applications. Host Configuration Requirements It runs on Intergraph Workstations (a Unix machine similar to a Sun) though there were rumors (there are always rumors) that the software would be ported to PC and possibly a Sun environment. PCI --- A company called PCI, Inc., out of Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada, makes an array of software utilities for processing, manipulation, and use of remote sensing data in eight or ten different "industry standard" formats: LGSOWG, BSQ, LANDSAT, and a couple of others whose titles I forget. The software is available in versions for MS-DOS, Unix workstations (among them HP, Sun, and IBM), and VMS, and quite possibly other platforms by now. I use the VMS version. The "PCI software" consists of several classes/groups/packages of utilities, grouped by function but all operating on a common "PCI database" disk file. The "Tape I/O" package is a set of utility programs which read from the various remote-sensing industry tape formats INTO, or write those formats out FROM, the "PCI database" file; this is the only package I use or know much about. Other packages can display data from the PCI database to one or another of several PCI-supported third-party color displays, output numeric or bitmap representation of image data to an attached printer, e.g. an Epson-type dot-matrix graphics printer. You might be more spe- cifically interested in the mathematical operations package: histo- gram and Fourier analysis, equalization, user-specified operations (e.g. "multiply channel 1 by 3, add channel 2, and store as channel 5"), and God only knows what all else -- there's a LOT. I don't have and don't use these, so can't say much about them; you only buy the packages your particular application/interest calls for. Each utility is controlled by from one to eight "parameters," read from a common "parameter file" which must be (in VMS anyway) in your "default directory." Some utilities will share parameters and use the same parameter for a different purpose, so it can get a bit confusing setting up a series of operations. The standard PCI environment contains a scripting language very similar to IBM-PC BASIC, but which allows you to automate the process of setting up parameters for a common, complicated, lengthy or difficult series of utility executions. (In VMS I can also invoke utilities independently from a DCL command procedure.) There's also an optional programming library which allows you to write compiled language programs which can interface with (read from/write to) the PCI data structures (database file, parameter file). The PCI software is designed specifically for remote-sensing images, but requires such a level of operator expertise that, once you reach the level where you can handle r-s images, you can figure out ways to handle a few other things as well. For instance, the Tape I/O package offers a utility for reading headerless multi-band (what Adobe PhotoShop on the Macintosh calls "raw") data from tape, in a number of different "interleave" orders. This turns out to be ideal for manipulating the graphic-arts industry's "CT2T" format, would probably (I haven't tried) handle Targa, and so on. Above all, however, you HAVE TO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE DOING or you can screw up to the Nth degree and have to start over. It's worth noting that the PCI "database" file is designed to contain not only "raster" (image) data, but vectors (for overlaying map information entered via digitizing table), land-use, and all manner of other information (I observe that a remote-sensing image tape often contains all manner of information about the spectral bands, latitude, longitude, time, date, etc. of the original satellite pass; all of this can go into the PCI "database"). I _believe_ that on workstations the built-in display is used. On VAX systems OTHER than workstations PCI supports only a couple of specific third-party display systems (the name Gould/Deanza seems to come to mind). One of MY personal workarounds was a display program which would display directly from a PCI "database" file to a Peritek VCT-Q (Q-bus 24-bit DirectColor) display subsystem. PCI software COULD be "overkill" in your case; it seems designed for the very "high end" applications/users, i.e. those for whom a Mac/PC largely doesn't suffice (although as you know the gap is getting smaller all the time). It's probably no coincidence that PCI is located in Canada, a country which does a LOT of its land/resource management via remote sensing; I believe the Canadian government uses PCI software for some of its work in these areas. SPAM (Spectral Analysis Manager) -------------------------------- Back in 1985 JPL developed something called SPAM (Spectral Analysis Manager) which got a fair amount of use at the time. That was designed for Airborne Imaging Spectrometer imagery (byte data, <= 256 pixels across by <= 512 lines by <= 256 bands); a modified version has since been developed for AVIRIS (Airborne VIsual and InfraRed Imaging Spectrometer) which uses much larger images. Spam does none of these things (rectification, classification, PC and IHS transformations, filtering, contrast enhancement, overlays). Actually, it does limited filtering and contrast enhancement (stretching). Spam is aimed at spectral identification and clustering. The original Spam uses X or SunView to display. The AVIRIS version may require VICAR, an executive based on TAE, and may also require a frame buffer. I can refer you to people if you're interested. PCW requires X for display. MAP II ------ Among the Mac GIS systems, MAP II is distributed by John Wiley. CLRview ------- CLRview is a 3-dimensional visualization program designed to exploit the real-time capabilities of Silicon Graphics IRIS computers. This program is designed to provide a core set of tools to aid in the visualization of information from CAD and GIS sources. It supports the integration of many common but disperate data sources such as DXF, TIN, DEM, Lattices, and Arc/Info Coverages among others. CLRview can be obtained from explorer.dgp.utoronto.ca (128.100.1.129) in the directory pub/sgi/clrview. Contact: Rodney Hoinkes Head of Design Applications Centre for Landscape Research University of Toronto Tel: (416) 978-7197 Email: rodney@dgp.utoronto.ca ========================================================================== End of Resource Listing
What about the ELSA WINNER4000 (S3 928, Bt485, 4MB, EISA), or the Metheus Premier-4VL (S3 928, Bt485, 4MB, ISA/VL) ? As it just happens, SGCS has a Xserver (X386 1.4) that does 1024x768x24 on those cards. Please email to info@sgcs.com for more details. - Thomas --
Is there any one know: What is the FTP tool for Windows and where to get the tool ? Thanks for any help !!
The following is a survey we are conducting for a term project in a philosophy class. It is not meant to give us anything interesting statistically; we want to hear what kind of voices there are out there. We are not asking for full- blown essays, but please give us what you can. As I do not read these groups often, please email all responses to me at shimpei@leland.stanford.edu. As my mail account is not infinite, if you can delete the questions and just have numbered answers when you write back I would really appreciate it. Since we would like to start analyzing the result as soon as possible, we would like to have the answers by April 30. If you absolutely cannot make it by then, though, we would still liken to hear your answer. If anyone is interested in our final project please send a note to that effect would like to have the answers by April 30. If you absolutely cannot make it by then, though, we would still like to hear your answer. If anyone is interested in our final project please send a note to that effect (or better yet, include a note along with your survey response) and I'll try to email it to you, probably in late May. SURVEY: Question 1) Have you ever had trouble reconciling faith and reason? If so, what was the trouble? (For example: -Have you ever been unsure whether Creationism or Evolutionism holds more truth? -Do you practice tarot cards, palm readings, or divination that conflicts with your scientific knowledge of the world? -Does your religion require you to ignore physical realities that you have seen for yourself or makes logical sense to you?) Basically, we would like to know if you ever _BELIEVED_ in something that your _REASON_tells you is wrong. Question 2) If you have had conflict, how did/do you resolve the conflict? Question 3) If you haven't had trouble, why do you think you haven't? Is there a set of guidelines you use for solving these problems? Thank you very much for your time. -- Shimpei Yamashita, Stanford University email:shimpei@leland.stanford.edu "There are three kinds of mathematicians: those who can count and those who can't."
Steve, It's nice that you find me laughable but I don't quite understand. Is it because you think my firearms clash with what I'm wearing, or that my NRA sticker isn't on straight? Please state your judgement! I find it sad that people won't accept the responsibility to defend themselves. And I laugh with the same contempt you have for me at the sheep who expect the government to protect them. You and your friends sound like a bunch of smug intellectuals. Oh, I guess you are. I'm still waiting for you all-knowing academic-likes to solve the worlds problems. Let us know when you have the answers or punch lines as this case may be. So it's not a "Yankee" thing? Are Canadians actually as uncivilized as we Americans? Well if it's anything like here it wouldn't matter if they did; they wouldn't be able to use them. You shouldn't waste your time watching TV, Steve. It will corrupt your mind. Ditto to you, Self Righteous One. Lay your derogatory tirade on thick, Steve. Y'all can keep laughing and I'll keep feeling safe and secure.
Hi! I will like to know if there is a FORTRAN library for MS-Windows v3+ out there. I have several lots of source code written by past A/Ps in MS-FORTRAN, and recently have needed to port them to MS-Windows... I would like to avoid a major code-rewrite if possible - maybe a WINDOWS library is all I need? Please help - reply by E-mail to: traversmorgan@swell.actrix.gen.nz
HI All, Can someone point me towards some articles on 'boids' or flocking algorithms... ? Also, articles on particle animation formulas would be nice... ________________________________________________________________________ \________________________________________________________________________\| --- þ DeLuxeý 1.25 #8086 þ Head of Co*& XV$# Hi This is a signature virus. Co
About 18 months ago, I heard a report on NPR about a 900-number "1-900-STO-PPER" or some such, for placing untraceable calls. You call them, and on "bong" tone dial the number you want to call; they told the NPR interviewer that nothing short of a court order (which they'd fight) would make them release their records. Matt Healy "I pretend to be a network administrator; the lab net pretends to work"
Actually Alomar is a two-time gold-glover (91-92).
Who has to consider it? The being that does the action? I'm still not sure I know what you are trying to say.
See subject. An opportunity for sales-people (-persons? -entities?). I am looking for a commercial/PD graphics editor with fairly limited abilities that runs under X and preferably uses Motif widgets. It must run on HP-UX version 9, either with or without the PEX extension. The sort of things I want are simple drawing, resizing and moving of objects such as lines, rectangles and text. Bounding rectangle operations are sufficient for object selection. Ideally it should also allow the creation and placement of more complex objects such as widgets (e.g. text entry fields or labels), but this is not mandatory. Does anyone have such an animal? If you do, please mail me with details including price (especially run-time licensing since it must be included in a product). Alternatively, send glossies to me at Logica, 68 Newman Street, London W1, including technical info please. For PD stuff, I have some effort that could be put into porting. Thanks for any help, Nicholas Young.
But the Question was later revealed to be: What is 9 x 6? (In the base 13 system, of course.)
I'm interested in find out what is involved in processing pairs of stereo photographs. I have black-and-white photos and would like to obtain surface contours. I'd prefer to do the processing on an SGI, but would be interested in hearing what software/hardware is used for this type of image processing. Please email and/or post to comp.sys.sgi.graphics your responses. Thanks,
What in blazes is going on with Wayne Matson and gang down in Alabama? I also heard an unconfirmed rumor that Aerospace Ambassadors have disappeared. Can anyone else confirm??
From: "Preston K. Covey" <covey+@andrew.cmu.edu> Subject: Gun Stats & Mortal Risks Date: Mon, 15 Feb 1993 18:35:05 -0500 (EST) Folks, Hail from the nether world. On February 4th, the Wall Street Journal carried a front-page article by Erik Larson entitled "Armed Force." I felt a reply was in order to his citation of the notorious scare stat that "A Gun is 43 times more likely to kill than to protect." I sent the following to the WSJ. ----- Gun Stats & Mortal Risks Preston K. Covey Erik Larson~s even-handed article on Paxton Quigley (~Armed Force,~ 2/4/93, WSJ) cites the world~s most notorious ~statistic~ regarding guns in the home: ~A pioneering study of residential gunshot deaths in King County, Washington, found that a gun in the home was 43 times more likely to be used to kill its owner, spouse, a friend or child than to kill an intruder.~ The ~43 times~ stat is everywhere these days; it has grown in media lore like the proverbial urban myth: it was inflated by one pugilistic talk-show pundit to ~93.~ Given the shock value of the finding, the conclusion of the 1986 New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) study is remarkably understated: ~The advisability of keeping firearms in the home for protection must be questioned.~ Responsible people should indeed question the risks and benefits of bringing a firearm into their home. But what we need to know is this: What exactly are the risks and benefits? The NEJM testimony is neither the whole truth about the benefits nor nothing but the truth about the risks. Further, as with motor vehicles, we want to know: What control do we have over the risks and benefits? And, as with the risks of cancer or heart disease or auto accidents: How can we minimize the risks? Like raw highway death tolls, the NEJM stat is not very helpful here. The NEJM finding purports to inform us, but it is framed to warn us off. It is widely promulgated in the media as a ~scare stat,~ a misleading half-truth whose very formulation is calculated to prejudice and terrify. The frightful statistic screams for itself: The risks far outweigh the benefits, yes? What fool would run these risks? If your car were 43 times more likely to kill you, a loved one, a dear friend or an innocent child than to get you to your destination, should you not take the bus? Uncritical citation puts the good name of statistics in the bad company of lies and damned lies. Surely, we can do better where lives are at stake. Let~s take a closer look at this risky business: The ~43 times~ stat of the NEJM study is the product of dividing the number of home intruders/aggressors justifiably killed in self-defense (the divisor) into the number of family members or acquaintances killed by a gun in the home (the dividend). The divisor of this risk equation is 9: in the study~s five-year sample there were 2 intruders and 7 other cases of self-defense. The dividend is 387: in the study there were 12 accidental deaths, 42 criminal homicides, and 333 suicides. 387 divided by 9 yields 43. There were a total of 743 gun-related deaths in King County between 1978 and 1983, so the study leaves 347 deaths outside of homes unaccounted. The NEJM~s notorious ~43 times~ statistic is seriously misleading on six counts: 1. The dividend is misleadingly characterized in the media: the ~or acquaintances~ of the study (who include your friendly drug dealers and neighborhood gang members) is equated to ~friends.~ The implication is that the offending guns target and kill only beloved family members, dear friends, and innocent children. Deaths may all be equally tragic, but the character and circumstance of both victims and killers are relevant to the risk. These crucial risk factors are masked by the calculated impression that the death toll is generated by witless Waltons shooting dear friends and friendly neighbors. This is criminological hogwash. 2. The study itself does not distinguish households or environs populated by people with violent, criminal, or substance-abuse histories -- where the risk of death is very high -- versus households inhabited by more civil folk (for example, people who avoid high-risk activities like drug dealing, gang banging and wife beating) -- where the risk is very low indeed. In actuality, negligent adults allow fatal but avoidable accidents; and homicides are perpetrated mostly by people with histories of violence or abuse, people who are identifiably and certifiably at ~high risk~ for misadventure. To ignore these obvious risk factors in firearm accidents and homicides is as misleading as ignoring the role of alcohol in vehicular deaths: by tautology, neither gun deaths nor vehicular deaths would occur without firearms or vehicles; but the person and circumstance of the gun owner or driver crucially affect the risk. 3. One misleading implication of the way the NEJM stat is framed is that the mere presence of a gun in the home is much more likely to kill than to protect, and this obscures -- indeed, disregards -- the role of personal responsibility. The typical quotation of this study (unlike Larson~s) attributes fatal agency to the gun: ~A gun in the home is 43 times as likely to kill . . . .~ (The Center to Prevent Handgun Violence, a major promulgator of the NEJM statistic, uses this particular formulation.) We can dispense with the silly debate about whether it~s people or guns that accomplish the killing: again, by tautology, gun deaths would not occur without the guns. The question begged is how many deaths would occur anyway, without the guns. In any case, people are the death-dealing agents, the guns are their lethal instruments. The moral core of the personal risk factors in gun deaths are personal responsibility and choice. Due care and responsibility obviate gun accidents; human choice mediates homicide and suicide (by gun or otherwise). The choice to own a gun need not condemn a person to NEJM~s high-risk pool. The gun does not create this risk by itself. People have a lot to say about what risk they run with guns in their homes. For example, graduates of Paxton Quigley~s personal protection course do not run the touted ~43 times~ risk any more than skilled and sober drivers run the same risks of causing or suffering vehicular death as do reckless or drunk drivers. Undiscriminating actuarials disregard and obscure the role of personal responsibility and choice, just as they disregard and obscure the role of socio-economic, criminological and other risk-relevant factors in firearm-related death. This is why we resent insurance premiums and actuarial consigment to risk pools whose norms disregard our individualities. Fortunately, nothing can consign us to the NEJM risk pool but our own lack of choice or responsibility in the matter. 4. Suicide accounts for 84% of the deaths by gun in the home in the NEJM study. As against the total deaths by gun in King County, including those outside the home, in-house suicides are 44% of the total death toll, which is closer to the roughly 50% proportion found by other studies. Suicide is a social problem of a very different order from homicide or accidents. The implication of the NEJM study is that these suicides might not occur without readily available guns. It is true that attempted suicide by gun is likely to succeed. It is not obviously true that the absence of a gun would prevent any or all of these suicides. This is widely assumed or alleged, but the preponderance of research on guns and suicide actually shows otherwise, that this is wishful thinking in all but a few truly impulsive cases. (See: Bruce L. Danto et al., The Human Side of Homicide, Columbia University Press, 1982; Charles Rich et al., ~Guns and Suicide,~ American Journal of Psychiatry, March 1990.) If suicides were removed from the dividend of the NEJM study~s risk equation, the ~43 times~ stat would deflate to ~six.~ The inclusion of suicides in the NEJM risk equation -- like the causes, durability, or interdiction of suicidal intent itself -- is a profoundly debatable matter. Quotations of the NEJM study totally disregard this issue. 5. Citations of the NEJM study also mislead regarding the estimable rate of justifiable and excusable homicide. Most measures, like the NEJM homicide rate, are based on the immediate disposition of cases. But many homicides initially ruled criminal are appealed and later ruled self-defense. In the literature on battered women, immediate case dispositions are notorious for under-representing the rate of justifiable or excusable homicide. Time~s January 18, 1993, cover story on women ~Fighting Back~ reported one study~s finding that 40% of women who appeal have their murder convictions thrown out. Time~s July 17, 1989, cover story on a week of gun deaths reported 51% of the domestic cases as shootings by abuse victims; but only 3% of the homicides were reported as self-defense. In a May 14, 1990, update, Time reported that 12% of the homicides had eventually been ruled self-defense. In Time~s sample, the originally reported rate of self-defense was in error by a factor of four. The possibility of such error is not acknowledged by promulgators of the NEJM statistic. 6. While both the dividend and the product of the NEJM risk equation are arguably inflated, the divisor is unconscionably misleading. The divisor of this equation counts only aggressors who are killed, not aggressors who are successfully thwarted without being killed or even shot at. The utility of armed self-defense is the other side of the coin from the harms done with guns in homes. What kind of moral idiocy is it to measure this utility only in terms of killings ? Do we measure the utility of our police solely in terms of felons killed -- as opposed to the many many more who are otherwise foiled, apprehended, or deterred? Should we not celebrate (let alone count ) those cases where no human life is lost as successful armed defenses? The question posed to media that cite the NEJM scare stat is this: Why neglect the compendious research on successful armed defense, notably by criminologist Gary Kleck (Point Blank: Guns and Violence in America , Aldine de Gruyter, 1992)? Kleck~s estimations of the rate and risk of defensive firearm use are based on victimization surveys as well as other studies: the rate is high (about one million a year) and the risk is good (gun defenders fare better than anyone, either those who resort to other forms of resistance or those who do not resist). Dividing one million gun defenses a year by 30,000 annual gun deaths (from self-defense, homicides, suicides, and accidents) yields 33. Thus, we can construct a much more favorable statistic than the NEJM scare stat: A gun is 33 times more likely to be used to defend against assault or other crime than to kill anybody. Of course, Kleck~s critics belittle the dividend of this calculation; what is good news for gun defenders is bad news for gun control. We should indeed question the basis and method of Kleck~s high estimation of defensive firearm use, as I have questioned the NEJM statistic. Clearly, the issue of how to manage mortal risks is not settled by uncritical citation of statistics. One thing troubles me still: we can hardly escape the unquestioned NEJM scare stat in our media, but we hardly ever find Kleck~s good work mentioned, even critically.
[stuff deleted] There are two 'problems': (1) the BIOS TOD routine which updates the BIOS clock uses only 1 bit for day increment, so a second wrapping of the clock past midnight will get lost if no one calls the BIOS to read the clock in the meantime, and (2) the BIOS resets the day wrap indicator on the first 'get date' call from ANYBODY (after the wrap indicator has been set). So unless the first BIOS 'get date' call after midnight is done by the DOS 'kernel' (which is the only part of DOS which knows how to increment the date, the day wrap indication is normally lost. My guess is that Kevin's 'menu' system uses BIOS calls to read the clock (in order to display the time), and is hence the entity which causes the day wrap indication to get lost. Even if the 'menu' system 'notices' the day 'wrap' (which I think is indicated by a non-zero value in AL), there really isn't any particularly good way to tell DOS about it, so that DOS can update the day. The menu system 'should' use DOS calls to get the time, which would cause the DOS 'kernel' to do the BIOS call, and the wrap indicator would hence be processed properly. Possibly, though, the 'menu' system can't easily use DOS calls for time, because DOS is not reentrant, and perhaps time incrementing ofters occur while the 'menu' system is 'inside' some other DOS call.
Hence we are "all" above the Law where "all" in this case refers to Christians. When was the last time you heard about a Jewish animal sacrifice? The blood sacrifice of an innocent man? Then why don't Christians follow it, why don't they even follow their own Ten Commandments? So, in short; Hitler is in heaven and Gandhi is in Hell?
I have a Paradise SVGA with 1Mb, the 90c030 chip (1D). The docs say that I can display the following modes : 640x480x32k colours and 800x600x32k cols if I have the RAMDAC HiColor Chip. I have checked the board and I do have such a chip. Now, the problem is that I can't get this mode to work ! Graphics Workshop 6.1 claims that it can display 24 bit images dithered down to 15 bit colour with my board, but it doesn't work. I have tried writing some assembler code to get the modes working and I have found out that each pixel is addressed by a word ( 16 bit ), but only the lower 8 bits are considered ( this happens in 800x600 mode, the 640x480 mode refuses to work i.e. remains in text mode ). Could someone please help me.
Strictly from memory, I think the Phillies were something like ten games up with 12 to go, lost 10 in a row, and 11 of last 12 to lose to the Cardinals. Seems impossible, but thats how I remember it. I also felt at the time that Johnny Callison of the Phillies lost the MVP as a by-product of their swoon. jerry
... an amazing illustration of disconnection from reality. Glad to see that you agree that the current Government is reticent about admitting the sovereignty of the people! Speaking from personal experience, I have had judges illegally assume jurisdiction even after I demanded that the DA prove such jurisdiction on the record, and the DA stood mute. I have also had an appellate court uphold such action and hide behind California Rules of Court, Rule 106 ("The judges of the appellate department shall not be required to write opinions in any cases decided by them, but may do so whenever they deem it advisable or in the public interest."). That is reality, I agree.
Does anyone know what is available in terms of automated testing of X/Motif applications. I am thinking of a system which I could program (or which could record events/output) with our verification test procedures and then run/rerun each time we do regression testing. I am interested in a product like this for our UNIX projects and for a separate project which will be using OpenVMS.
Scott -- look on ftp.cica.indiana.edu for gws.....zip. They embed the release number in the name, and I'm not sure what the lates is. It is Graphics Workshop. There is a DOS and a Windows version. Both work Great. I even had someone bring me some images from the Amiga, and converted them to great looking wallpaper as 256-color .BMP files If you can't find it, repost, or let me know, and I'll dig up the archive. dave --
Hello, is there anybody in there? You think you have to pay for this idiot's problem now, who's going to pay for the ballooning number of addicts and all of the associated problems with them. I don't even want to think about it with Hillary in the White House and an administration that "feels our pain". No harm but to himself? What about when he drives his school bus full of kids into a train. When he gets stoned and drives up on a sidewalk and kills 5 people. When he lives off me on Welfare for the rest of his life.
Being a big fan of the official IBM keyboards, I have a PS/2 keyboard attached to my clone computer. I want to know if there is a software utility out there that can be used to switch the locations of the ctrl and cap locks keys. Even better, does IBM or any third party make ctrl and cap lock key replacements that can be used to visually switch the keys as well?
Don't listen to this guy, he's just a crank. At first, this business about being the "one true god" was tolerated by the rest of us, but now it has gotten completely out of hand. Besides, it really isn't so bad when people stop believing in you. It's much more relaxing when mortals aren't always begging you for favors.
A little supplement Basic Mike's info : For Sundday's opener on ABC, these are the announcing crews : Devils/Isles at Pittsburgh - Gary Thorne(play-by-play),Bill Clement(color) and Al Morganti roaming the halls outside the dressing rooms. This telecast will primarily seen on the East Coast. St.Louis at Chicago - Mike Emrick(play - by play),Jim Schoendfeld(color) and Tom Mees roaming the halls. This telecast will primarily be seen in the Midwest and parts of the South. LA at Calgary - Al "Do You Believe in Mircales?" Michaels(play by play), John Davidson(color) and Mark Jones as a roaming reporter. This telecast will be seen in the Western USA. Montreal's naitive,Jon Saunders will be hosting in the studio. ABC will do "Up and Close and Personal" with Mario during Saturday's Wide World of Sports(4:30EDT). Sunday will be the first NHL playoff or regular network telecast in 13 years... not counting those silly All-Star games on NBC for the last few years... For Sunday's games,ABC will use 8 mikes(2 behind on the goal),super-super-slo-mo, close-ups of player's faces at face-offs. ESPN/ABC will not be able to use its new favorite toy,the ice-level shot, in Pittsburgh where too many seats would have to removed to employ it... In case of a blowout in progress in Pittsburgh,ABC will switch to Chicago game but will come back to the Pittsburgh game for updates or if the game gets closer(Ha!).. ABC expects huge ratings(by hockey standards) since all 3 Top US TV-markets are involved - NY metro area(NY Islanders/NJ Devils),Chicago(BlackHawks), and LA(Kings). Stay tuned, Thanks Mike,
When are the Yankees planning on activating Melido Perez? His 15 days on the DL are up today, but are they bringing him back this weekend?
Can somebody reconcile the apparent contradiction between [1] and [2]?
So what you're saying is that your mind is made up, and you'll just explain away any differences at being statistically insignificant? So you'll just explain away any inconsistancies in your "theory" as being "a special case". You just equated them. Re-read your own words. A study release in 1991 found that 11% of female seagulls are lesbians. Now, apply this last sentence of your to YOUR theory. Notice how your are contridicting observations? You don't know much math, do you? The ability to use SAS to determine the length of the third side of the triangle is fundemental to geometry. Goals <> postulates. Again, if one of the "goals" of this "objective/natural morality" system you are proposing is "survival of the species", then homosexuality is immoral.
Actually, old video games and pinball machines are supposed to work pretty good (at blocking EM eavesdropping), too. Those things put out a LOT of EM noise. Back in the 80's, I read about computer companies putting bunches of games in their buildings for just this purpose (not to mention the $$$).
Is this a joke? The legal way to serve a search warrant is to knock on the door. Tossing in a grenade to serve a search warrant violates the US Constitution and is hence, illegal. The BD complied with legal search warrants in the past. I do not understand why the BATF used an illegal means to serve their search warrant last February.
Ergo, if your life is sufficiently boring, you have no need for privacy? (This is not meant to be personal, just the logical conclusion of your statement.)
Our new Attorney General seems determined to do so. In the past She hopes the King beating will not reduce public confidince in law enforcement. The tactics of using tear gas and driving tanks through walls in Waco were intended to further a "peacefull solution" to the crisis. Those same tactics were intended to prevent a mass suicide, but she never expected the sect to react by killing themselves. It's comforting to know, at least, that she wasn't Clinton's first choice...
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary (Pittsburgh, Pennslyvania) ______________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 17, 1993 RADIO ADDRESS TO THE NATION BY THE PRESIDENT Pittsburgh International Airport Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 10:06 A.M. EDT THE PRESIDENT: Good morning. My voice is coming to you this morning through the facilities of the oldest radio station in America, KDKA in Pittsburgh. I'm visiting the city to meet personally with citizens here to discuss my plans for jobs, health care and the economy. But I wanted first to do my weekly broadcast with the American people. I'm told this station first broadcast in 1920 when it reported that year's presidential elections. Over the past seven decades presidents have found ways to keep in touch with the people, from whistle-stop tours to fire-side chats to the bus tour that I adopted, along with Vice President Gore, in last year's campaign. Every Saturday morning I take this time to talk with you, my fellow Americans, about the problems on your minds and what I'm doing to try and solve them. It's my way of reporting to you and of giving you a way to hold me accountable. You sent me to Washington to get our government and economy moving after years of paralysis and policy and a bad experiment with trickle-down economics. You know how important it is for us to make bold, comprehensive changes in the way we do business. We live in a competitive global economy. Nations rise and fall on the skills of their workers, the competitiveness of their companies, the imagination of their industries, and the cooperative experience and spirit that exists between business, labor and government. Although many of the economies of the industrialized world are now suffering from slow growth, they've made many of the smart investments and the tough choices which our government has for too long ignored. That's why many of them have been moving ahead and too many of our people have been falling behind. We have an economy today that even when it grows is not producing new jobs. We've increased the debt of our nation by four times over the last 12 years, and we don't have much to show for it. We know that wages of most working people have stopped rising, that most people are working longer work weeks and that too many families can no longer afford the escalating cost of health care. But we also know that, given the right tools, the right incentives and the right encouragement, our workers and businesses can make the kinds of products and profits our economy needs to expand opportunity and to make our communities better places to live. In many critical products today Americans are the low cost, high quality producers. Our task is to make sure that we create more of those kinds of jobs. Just two months ago I gave Congress my plan for long-term jobs and economic growth. It changes the old priorities in Washington and puts our emphasis where it needs to be -- on people's real needs, on increasing investments and jobs and education, on cutting the federal deficit, on stopping the waste which pays no dividends, and redirecting our precious resources toward investment that creates jobs now and lays the groundwork for robust economic growth in the future. These new directions passed the Congress in record time and created a new sense of hope and opportunity in our country. Then the jobs plan I presented to Congress, which would create hundreds of thousands of jobs, most of them in the private sector in 1993 and 1994, passed the House of Representatives. It now has the support of a majority of the United States Senate. But it's been held up by a filibuster of a minority in the Senate, just 43 senators. They blocked a vote that they know would result in the passage of our bill and the creation of jobs. The issue isn't politics; the issue is people. Millions of Americans are waiting for this legislation and counting on it, counting on us in Washington. But the jobs bill has been grounded by gridlock. I know the American people are tired of business as usual and politics as usual. I know they don't want us to spin or wheels. They want the recovery to get moving. So I have taken a first step to break this gridlock and gone the extra mile. Yesterday I offered to cut the size of this plan by 25 percent -- from $16 billion to $12 billion. It's not what I'd hoped for. With 16 million Americans looking for full-time work, I simply can't let the bill languish when I know that even a compromise bill will mean hundreds of thousands of jobs for our people. The mandate is to act to achieve change and move the country forward. By taking this initiative in the face of an unrelenting Senate talkathon, I think we can respond to your mandate and achieve a significant portion of our original goals. First, we want to keep the programs as much as possible that are needed to generate jobs and meet human needs, including highway and road construction, summer jobs for young people, immunization for children, construction of waste water sites, and aid to small businesses. We also want to keep funding for extended unemployment compensation benefits, for people who have been unemployed for a long time because the economy isn't creating jobs. Second, I've recommended that all the other programs in the bill be cut across-the-board by a little more than 40 percent. And third, I've recommended a new element in this program to help us immediately start our attempt to fight against crime by providing $200 million for cities and towns to rehire police officers who lost their jobs during the recession and put them back to work protecting our people. I'm also going to fight for a tough crime bill because the people of this country need it and deserve it. Now, the people who are filibustering this bill -- the Republican senators -- say they won't vote for it because it increases deficit spending, because there's extra spending this year that hasn't already been approved. That sounds reasonable, doesn't it? Here's what they don't say. This program is more than paid for by budget cuts over my five-year budget, and this budget is well within the spending limits already approved by the Congress this year. It's amazing to me that many of these same senators who are filibustering the bill voted during the previous administration for billions of dollars of the same kind of emergency spending, and much of it was not designed to put the American people to work. This is not about deficit spending. We have offered a plan to cut the deficit. This is about where your priorities are -- on people or on politics. Keep in mind that our jobs bill is paid for dollar for dollar. It is paid for by budget cuts. And it's the soundest investment we can now make for ourselves and our children. I urge all Americans to take another look at this jobs and investment program; to consider again the benefits for all of us when we've helped make more American partners working to ensure the future of our nation and the strength of our economy. You know, if every American who wanted a job had one, we wouldn't have a lot of the other problems we have in this country today. This bill is not a miracle, it's a modest first step to try to set off a job creation explosion in this country again. But it's a step we ought to take. And it is fully paid for over the life of our budget. Tell your lawmakers what you think. Tell them how important the bill is. If it passes, we'll all be winners. Good morning, and thank you for listening.
Is there an Xt call to give me my application context? I am fixing up an X/Motif program, and am trying to use XtAppAddTimeOut, whose first argument is the app_context. What call can I use to give me this value? Thanks, Todd Greene masc0442@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
I don't believe IRQ5 is the problem. I tried a mouse on COM3, IRQ4 (the usual place) and it still did not like it. Simply, Windows seems to only support mice on COM1 or COM2. The funny part is, though, that Microsoft's own mouse driver (8.xx) was quite happy with my mouse sitting on COM3. Why can't Windows use the mouse driver, or at least support COM3? :-) I've tried this too. Actually, I wanted to be able to use my second modem (COM3/IRQ5) from Windows. It still will not talk to that modem. I created two profiles, AMSTRAD (for my Amstrad modem on COM1/IRQ4) and MAESTRO (for my Maestro on COM3/IRQ5). It will not talk to the Maestro at all. Nor here. (Windows 3.0). I've seen nothing like that. I've experimented with Logitech's mouse driver too, with no sucess. If you have a SoundBlaster Pro, it should support IRQ10 as well. Finally, a board that supports IRQs >9. The only one I have (except my IDE controller). hamish
I have had a Zeos for a couple months. While the experience was not painless or perfect, it was way better than that endured by most (7 people I personally know) who have ordered Gateways. (Of course, several of the Gateway buyers were rewarded by getting free stuff as Gateway can't seem to keep track of what it has or hasn't sent out...B{) I got the 1 MB Viper card. The first one was defective, but Zeos replaced it with only minor hassles. This one works fine. I haven't noticed any problems in any of my applications. I also ordered it because of all the complaints about the ATI a few months ago. Guess you can choose either buggy state-of-the-art stuff, or robust average stuff.... For my particular configuration (tower, 300 watt supply, pkg#3, no monitor, viper, etc.) the Zeos was slightly cheaper than Gateway, Austin, etc. But this can change from month to month.
I'm writing an application running under X (using Motif), and I need to do some stuff when the application quits. Now, when I shut down my X Windows session, it doesn't seem to send a SIGTERM (or whatever) signal to my application (I'm trapping various signals like that). Therefore, I thought I could use an X signal to check for my top level window being destroyed. However I seem to get DestroyNotify events whenever I move windows. Is there any way for me to check that the window is actually being destroyed (some field to check or some combination of events?). Replies by e-mail please and I will summarise. Thanks for any help, Ian
If this question is covered elsewhere, I apologize, but I need information fast. My department has been given a large sum of money to install a video system on our network of IBM RS6000 workstations. This is not an area in which I have any expertise, so I wonder if anyone out there can offer advice. We would like a system, based either on VHS or 8mm video which will allow one write video, frame by frame on tape for play-back in real time. It's for visualization of physics problems. Can anyone tell me what hardware is available which would work for our system? Some support software is obviously needed too, but nothing particularly sophisticated, since the software we actually use for the visualization is all already written. Please email with replies, as I don't read this group. Many thanks for your help.
Now this is getting interesting! I was raised Roman Catholic before becoming an atheist, so I have stated this Creed you quote nearly every Sunday until I was about 18. For some reason, I always took the 'resurrection' in this statement to mean the resurrection of the soul, but I guess resurrection does strictly mean the raising of the physical body. I have some questions on this point: 1. I always thought that Christians believe the descent into hell was pretty much immediate, and that there are people burning in hell right now. You seem to be implying that it will not occur until after the "great judgement" (which I read as meaning the proverbial Judgment Day). I was always a little confused on this point, even when I was with the church -- maybe someone can clear it up for me. Where will my "soul" (which, by the way, I don't believe in) exist until that time? 2. Will the new body I will have be created out of the same atoms that my body now is made of, or will it be built from scratch? My physical body now is susceptible to aging, etc. -- so I guess my new body will have to be radically different in order to be immortal so it can be tortured for all eternity? 3. Since I will have a physical body, I assume it will need a physical place to exist in -- where is this hell? In the center of the earth? Do you think we could find it if we dig? Mark Schnitzius schnitzi@eola.cs.ucf.edu Univ. of Central Florida [There is not complete agreement on the details of the afterlife. I think the most common view is that final disposition does not occur until a final judgement, which is still in the future. In the meantime, some believe that people "sleep" until the final resurrection (or because God is above time, pass directly from death to the future time when the resurrection occurs), while others believe that souls have a disembodied, pre-resurrection existence until then. There are probably other alternatives that I'm omitting. The new body is generally conceived of being implemented in a different "technology" than the current one, one which is not mortal. (Paul talks about the mortal being raised to immortality, and Jesus' resurrected body -- which is the first example -- clearly was not subject to the same kind of limitations as ours.) It is assumed that there are enough similarities that people will recognize each other, but I don't think most people claim to know the details. I don't think I'd say it's the same atoms. I'd assume there would be some analog of a physical place, but I wouldn't expect to find it under the earth or up in the sky. I'd suspect that it's in another dimension, outside this physical world, or whatever. But again, we have little in the way of details.
Archive-name: space/references Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:21 $ REFERENCES ON SPECIFIC AREAS PUBLISHERS OF SPACE/ASTRONOMY MATERIAL Astronomical Society of the Pacific 1290 24th Avenue San Francisco, CA 94122 More expensive but better organized slide sets. Cambridge University Press 32 East 57th Street New York, NY 10022 Crawford-Peters Aeronautica P.O. Box 152528 San Diego, CA 92115 (619) 287-3933 An excellent source of all kinds of space publications. They publish a number of catalogs, including: Aviation and Space, 1945-1962 Aviation and Space, 1962-1990 Space and Related Titles European Southern Observatory Information and Photographic Service Dr R.M. West Karl Scharzschild Strasse 2 D-8046 Garching bei Munchen FRG Slide sets, posters, photographs, conference proceedings. Finley Holiday Film Corporation 12607 East Philadelphia Street Whittier, California 90601 (213)945-3325 (800)FILMS-07 Wide selection of Apollo, Shuttle, Viking, and Voyager slides at ~50 cents/slide. Call for a catalog. Hansen Planetarium (Utah) Said to hold sales on old slide sets. Look in Sky & Telescope for contact info. Lunar and Planetary Institute 3303 NASA Road One Houston, TX 77058-4399 Technical, geology-oriented slide sets, with supporting booklets. John Wiley & Sons 605 Third Avenue New York, NY 10158-0012 Sky Publishing Corporation PO Box 9111 Belmont, MA 02178-9111 Offers "Sky Catalogue 2000.0" on PC floppy with information (including parallax) for 45000 stars. Roger Wheate Geography Dept. University of Calgary, Alberta Canada T2N 1N4 (403)-220-4892 (403)-282-7298 (FAX) wheate@uncamult.bitnet Offers a 40-slide set called "Mapping the Planets" illustrating recent work in planetary cartography, comes with a booklet and information on getting your own copies of the maps. $50 Canadian, shipping included. Superintendent of Documents US Government Printing Office Washington, DC 20402 Univelt, Inc. P. O. Box 28130 San Diego, Ca. 92128 Publishers for the American Astronomical Society. US Naval Observatory 202-653-1079 (USNO Bulletin Board via modem) 202-653-1507 General Willmann-Bell P.O. Box 35025 Richmond, Virginia 23235 USA (804)-320-7016 9-5 EST M-F CAREERS IN THE SPACE INDUSTRY In 1990 the Princeton Planetary Society published the first edition of "Space Jobs: The Guide to Careers in Space-Related Fields." The publication was enormously successful: we distributed 2000 copies to space enthusiasts across the country and even sent a few to people in Great Britain, Australia, and Ecuador. Due to the tremendous response to the first edition, PPS has published an expanded, up-to-date second edition of the guide. The 40-page publication boasts 69 listings for summer and full-time job opportunities as well as graduate school programs. The second edition of "Space Jobs" features strategies for entering the space field and describes positions at consulting and engineering firms, NASA, and non-profit organizations. The expanded special section on graduate schools highlights a myriad of programs ranging from space manufacturing to space policy. Additional sections include tips on becoming an astronaut and listings of NASA Space Grant Fellowships and Consortia, as well as NASA Centers for the Commercial Development of Space. To order send check or money order made payable to Princeton Planetary Society for $4 per copy, plus $1 per copy for shipping and handling (non-US customers send an International Money Order payable in US dollars) to: Princeton Planetary Society 315 West College Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 DC-X SINGLE-STAGE TO ORBIT (SSTO) PROGRAM SDI's SSRT (Single Stage Rocket Technology) project has funded a suborbital technology demonstrator called DC-X that should fly in mid-1993. Further development towards an operational single-stage to orbit vehicle (called Delta Clipper) is uncertain at present. An collection of pictures and files relating to DC-X is available by anonymous FTP or email server in the directory bongo.cc.utexas.edu:pub/delta-clipper Chris W. Johnson (chrisj@emx.cc.utexas.edu) maintains the archive. HOW TO NAME A STAR AFTER A PERSON Official names are decided by committees of the International Astronomical Union, and are not for sale. There are purely commercial organizations which will, for a fee, send you pretty certificates and star maps describing where to find "your" star. These organizations have absolutely no standing in the astronomical community and the names they assign are not used by anyone else. It's also likely that you won't be able to see "your" star without binoculars or a telescope. See the back pages of Astronomy or other amateur astronomy publications for contact info; one such organization may be found at: International Star Registry 34523 Wilson Road Ingleside, IL 60041 This is not an endorsement of ISR. LLNL "GREAT EXPLORATION" The LLNL "Great Exploration", a plan for an on-the-cheap space station, Lunar base, and Mars mission using inflatable space structures, excited a lot of interest on the net and still comes up from time to time. Some references cited during net discussion were: Avation Week Jan 22, 1990 for an article on the overall Great Exploration NASA Assessment of the LLNL Space Exploration Proposal and LLNL Responses by Dr. Lowell Wood LLNL Doc. No. SS 90-9. Their address is: PO Box 808 Livermore, CA 94550 (the NASA authors are unknown). Briefing slides of a presentation to the NRC last December may be available. Write LLNL and ask. Conceptual Design Study for Modular Inflatable Space Structures, a final report for purchase order B098747 by ILC Dover INC. I don't know how to get this except from LLNL or ILC Dover. I don't have an address for ILC. LUNAR PROSPECTOR Lunar Exploration Inc. (LEI) is a non-profit corporation working on a privately funded lunar polar orbiter. Lunar Prospector is designed to perform a geochemical survey and search for frozen volatiles at the poles. A set of reference files describing the project is available in ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/LEI/* LUNAR SCIENCE AND ACTIVITIES Grant H Heiken, David T Vaniman, and Bevan M French (editors), "Lunar Sourcebook, A User's Guide to the Moon", Cambridge University Press 1991, ISBN 0-521-33444-6; hardcover; expensive. A one-volume encyclopedia of essentially everything known about the Moon, reviewing current knowledge in considerable depth, with copious references. Heavy emphasis on geology, but a lot more besides, including considerable discussion of past lunar missions and practical issues relevant to future mission design. *The* reference book for the Moon; all others are obsolete. Wendell Mendell (ed), "Lunar Bases and Space Activities of the 21st Century", $15. "Every serious student of lunar bases *must* have this book" - Bill Higgins. Available from: Lunar and Planetary Institute 3303 NASA Road One Houston, TX 77058-4399 If you want to order books, call (713)486-2172. Thomas A. Mutch, "Geology of the Moon: A Stratigraphic View", Princeton University Press, 1970. Information about the Lunar Orbiter missions, including maps of the coverage of the lunar nearside and farside by various Orbiters. ORBITING EARTH SATELLITE HISTORIES A list of Earth orbiting satellites (that are still in orbit) is available by anonymous FTP in: ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/FAQ/Satellites SPACECRAFT MODELS "Space in Miniature #2: Gemini" by Michael J. Mackowski 1621 Waterwood Lane, St. Louis, MO 63146 $7.50 Only 34pp but enough pictures & diagrams to interest more than just the modelling community, I feel. Marco's Miniatures of Dracut, Mass. have produced a 1/144 Skylab in an edition of 500 & a 1/48 Lunar Rover (same scale as Monogram and Revell Lunar Modules) in a similar edition. Prices are $45 for Skylab, $24 for LRV. Check with them for postage etc. I have no connection with them, but have found their service to be good and their stock of rare/old kits *is* impressive. Prices range from reasonable ($35 for Monogram 1/32 scale Apollo CSM with cutaway details) to spectacular ($145 for Airfix Vostok). Four Star Collectibles P.O. Box 658 Dracut Mass 01826, USA. (508)-957-0695. Voyager, HST, Viking, Lunar Rover etc. kits from: Lunar Models 5120 Grisham Rowlett, Texas 75088 (214)-475-4230 As reviewed by Bob Kaplow: Peter Alway's book "Scale Model Rocketry" is now available. Mine arrived in the mail earlier this week. To get your own copy, send $19.95 + $2.50 s/h ($22.45 total) to: Peter Alway 2830 Pittsfield Ann Arbor, MI 48104 The book includes information on collecting scale data, construction of scale models, and several handy tables. Appendicies include plans for 3 sport scale models, a 1:9.22 D Region Tomahawk (BT50), a 1/40 V-2 (BT60), and a 1/9.16 Aerobee 150A (BT55/60). I've only begun to study the book, but it certainly will be a valuable data source for many modellers. Most vehicles include several paragraphs of text describing the missions flown by the rocket, various specs including "NAR" engine classification, along with a dimensioned drawing, color layouts & paint pattern, and a black & white photograph. The vehicles included are the Aerobee 150A, Aerobee 300, Aerobee Hi, Arcas, Asp, Astrobee 1500, Astrobee D, Atlas Centaur, Atlas-Agena, Atlas-Score, Baby WAC, D-Region Tomahawk, Deacon Rockoon, Delta B, Delta E, Gemini-Titan II, Iris, Javelin, Juno 1, Juno 2, Little Joe 1, Little Joe 2, Mercury-Atlas, Mercury-Redstone, Nike-Apache, Nike-Asp, Nike-Cajun, Nike-Deacon, Nike-Tomahawk, RAM B, Saturn 1 Block 1, Saturn 1 Block 2, Saturn 1B, Saturn 5, Scout, Standard Aerobee, Terrapin, Thor-Able, Titan III C, Titan III E, Trailblazer 1, V-2, Vanguard, Viking Model 1, Viking Model 2, and Wac Corporal. ROCKET PROPULSION George P. Sutton, "Rocket Propulsion Elements", 5th edn, Wiley-Interscience 1986, ISBN 0-471-80027-9. Pricey textbook. The best (nearly the only) modern introduction to the technical side of rocketry. A good place to start if you want to know the details. Not for the math-shy. Straight chemical rockets, essentially nothing on more advanced propulsion (although earlier editions reportedly had some coverage). Dieter K. Huzel and David H. Huang, "Design of Liquid Propellant Rocket Engines", NASA SP-125. NTIS N71-29405 PC A20/MF A01 1971 461p Out of print; reproductions may be obtained through the NTIS (expensive). The complete and authoritative guide to designing liquid-fuel engines. Reference #1 in most chapters of Sutton. Heavy emphasis on practical issues, what works and what doesn't, what the typical values of the fudge factors are. Stiff reading, massive detail; written for rocket engineers by rocket engineers. SPACECRAFT DESIGN Brij N. Agrawal, "Design of Geosynchronous Spacecraft", Prentice-Hall, ISBN 0-13-200114-4. James R. Wertz ed, "Spacecraft Attitude Determination and Control", Kluwer, ISBN 90-277-1204-2. P.R.K. Chetty, "Satellite Technology and its Applications", McGraw-Hill, ISBN 0-8306-9688-1. James R. Wertz and Wiley J. Larson (editors), "Space Mission Analysis and Design", Kluwer Academic Publishers (Dordrecht/Boston/London) 1991, ISBN 0-7923-0971-5 (paperback), or 0-7923-0970-7 (hardback). This looks at system-level design of a spacecraft, rather than detailed design. 23 chapters, 4 appendices, about 430 pages. It leads the reader through the mission design and system-level design of a fictitious earth-observation satellite, to illustrate the principles that it tries to convey. Warning: although the book is chock-full of many useful reference tables, some of the numbers in at least one of those tables (launch costs for various launchers) appear to be quite wrong. Can be ordered by telephone, using a credit card; Kluwer's phone number is (617)-871-6600. Cost $34.50. ESOTERIC PROPULSION SCHEMES (SOLAR SAILS, LASERS, FUSION...) This needs more and more up-to-date references, but it's a start. ANTIMATTER: "Antiproton Annihilation Propulsion", Robert Forward AFRPL TR-85-034 from the Air Force Rocket Propulsion Laboratory (AFRPL/XRX, Stop 24, Edwards Air Force Base, CA 93523-5000). NTIS AD-A160 734/0 PC A10/MF A01 PC => Paper copy, A10 => $US57.90 -- or maybe Price Code? MF => MicroFiche, A01 => $US13.90 Technical study on making, holding, and using antimatter for near-term (30-50 years) propulsion systems. Excellent bibliography. Forward is the best-known proponent of antimatter. This also may be available as UDR-TR-85-55 from the contractor, the University of Dayton Research Institute, and DTIC AD-A160 from the Defense Technical Information Center, Defense Logistics Agency, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22304-6145. And it's also available from the NTIS, with yet another number. "Advanced Space Propulsion Study, Antiproton and Beamed Power Propulsion", Robert Forward AFAL TR-87-070 from the Air Force Astronautics Laboratory, DTIC #AD-A189 218. NTIS AD-A189 218/1 PC A10/MF A01 Summarizes the previous paper, goes into detail on beamed power systems including " 1) pellet, microwave, and laser beamed power systems for intersteller transport; 2) a design for a near-relativistic laser-pushed lightsail using near-term laser technology; 3) a survey of laser thermal propulsion, tether transportation systems, antiproton annihilation propulsion, exotic applications of solar sails, and laser-pushed interstellar lightsails; 4) the status of antiproton annihilation propulsion as of 1986; and 5) the prospects for obtaining antimatter ions heavier than antiprotons." Again, there is an extensive bibliography. "Application of Antimatter - Electric Power to Interstellar Propulsion", G. D. Nordley, JBIS Interstellar Studies issue of 6/90. BUSSARD RAMJETS AND RELATED METHODS: G. L. Matloff and A. J. Fennelly, "Interstellar Applications and Limitations of Several Electrostatic/Electromagnetic Ion Collection Techniques", JBIS 30 (1977):213-222 N. H. Langston, "The Erosion of Interstellar Drag Screens", JBIS 26 (1973): 481-484 C. Powell, "Flight Dynamics of the Ram-Augmented Interstellar Rocket", JBIS 28 (1975):553-562 A. R. Martin, "The Effects of Drag on Relativistic Spacefight", JBIS 25 (1972):643-652 FUSION: "A Laser Fusion Rocket for Interplanetary Propulsion", Roderick Hyde, LLNL report UCRL-88857. (Contact the Technical Information Dept. at Livermore) Fusion Pellet design: Fuel selection. Energy loss mechanisms. Pellet compression metrics. Thrust Chamber: Magnetic nozzle. Shielding. Tritium breeding. Thermal modeling. Fusion Driver (lasers, particle beams, etc): Heat rejection. Vehicle Summary: Mass estimates. Vehicle Performance: Interstellar travel required exhaust velocities at the limit of fusion's capability. Interplanetary missions are limited by power/weight ratio. Trajectory modeling. Typical mission profiles. References, including the 1978 report in JBIS, "Project Daedalus", and several on ICF and driver technology. "Fusion as Electric Propulsion", Robert W. Bussard, Journal of Propulsion and Power, Vol. 6, No. 5, Sept.-Oct. 1990 Fusion rocket engines are analyzed as electric propulsion systems, with propulsion thrust-power-input-power ratio (the thrust-power "gain" G(t)) much greater than unity. Gain values of conventional (solar, fission) electric propulsion systems are always quite small (e.g., G(t)<0.8). With these, "high-thrust" interplanetary flight is not possible, because system acceleration (a(t)) capabilities are always less than the local gravitational acceleration. In contrast, gain values 50-100 times higher are found for some fusion concepts, which offer "high-thrust" flight capability. One performance example shows a 53.3 day (34.4 powered; 18.9 coast), one-way transit time with 19% payload for a single-stage Earth/Mars vehicle. Another shows the potential for high acceleration (a(t)=0.55g(o)) flight in Earth/moon space. "The QED Engine System: Direct Electric Fusion-Powered Systems for Aerospace Flight Propulsion" by Robert W. Bussard, EMC2-1190-03, available from Energy/Matter Conversion Corp., 9100 A. Center Street, Manassas, VA 22110. [This is an introduction to the application of Bussard's version of the Farnsworth/Hirsch electrostatic confinement fusion technology to propulsion. 1500<Isp<5000 sec. Farnsworth/Hirsch demonstrated a 10**10 neutron flux with their device back in 1969 but it was dropped when panic ensued over the surprising stability of the Soviet Tokamak. Hirsch, responsible for the panic, has recently recanted and is back working on QED. -- Jim Bowery] "PLASMAKtm Star Power for Energy Intensive Space Applications", by Paul M. Koloc, Eight ANS Topical Meeting on Technology of Fusion Energy, special issue FUSION TECHNOLOGY, March 1989. Aneutronic energy (fusion with little or negligible neutron flux) requires plasma pressures and stable confinement times larger than can be delivered by current approaches. If plasma pressures appropriate to burn times on the order of milliseconds could be achieved in aneutronic fuels, then high power densities and very compact, realtively clean burning engines for space and other special applications would be at hand. The PLASMAKtm innovation will make this possible; its unique pressure efficient structure, exceptional stability, fluid-mechanically compressible Mantle and direct inductive MHD electric power conversion advantages are described. Peak burn densities of tens of megawats per cc give it compactness even in the multi-gigawatt electric output size. Engineering advantages indicate a rapid development schedule at very modest cost. [I strongly recommend that people take this guy seriously. Bob Hirsch, the primary proponent of the Tokamak, has recently declared Koloc's PLASMAKtm precursor, the spheromak, to be one of 3 promising fusion technologies that should be pursued rather than Tokamak. Aside from the preceeding appeal to authority, the PLASMAKtm looks like it finally models ball-lightning with solid MHD physics. -- Jim Bowery] ION DRIVES: Retrieve files pub/SPACE/SPACELINK/6.5.2.* from the Ames SPACE archive; these deal with many aspects of ion drives and describe the SERT I and II missions, which flight-tested cesium ion thrusters in the 1960s and 70s. There are numerous references. MASS DRIVERS (COILGUNS, RAILGUNS): IEEE Transactions on Magnetics (for example, v. 27 no. 1, January 1991 issue). Every so often they publish the proceedings of the Symposium on Electromagnetic Launcher Technology, including hundreds of papers on the subject. It's a good look at the state of the art, though perhaps not a good tutorial for beginners. Anybody know some good review papers? NUCLEAR ROCKETS (FISSION): "Technical Notes on Nuclear Rockets", by Bruce W. Knight and Donald Kingsbury, unpublished. May be available from: Donald Kingsbury, Math Dept., McGill University, PO Box 6070, Station A, Montreal, Quebec M3C 3G1 Canada. SOLAR SAILS: Starsailing. Solar Sails and Interstellar Travel. Louis Friedman, Wiley, New York, 1988, 146 pp., paper $9.95. (Not very technical, but an adequate overview.) "Roundtrip Interstellar Travel Using Laser-Pushed Lightsails (Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets, vol. 21, pp. 187-95, Jan.-Feb. 1984) TETHERS: _Tethers and Asteroids for Artificial Gravity Assist in the Solar System,_ by P.A. Penzo and H.L. Mayer., _Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets_ for Jan-Feb 1986. Details how a spacecraft with a kevlar tether of the same mass can change its velocity by up to slightly less than 1 km/sec. if it is travelling under that velocity wrt a suitable asteroid. GENERAL: "Alternate Propulsion Energy Sources", Robert Forward AFPRL TR-83-067. NTIS AD-B088 771/1 PC A07/MF A01 Dec 83 138p Keywords: Propulsion energy, metastable helium, free-radical hydrogen, solar pumped (sic) plasmas, antiproton annihiliation, ionospheric lasers, solar sails, perforated sails, microwave sails, quantum fluctuations, antimatter rockets... It's a wide, if not deep, look at exotic energy sources which might be useful for space propulsion. It also considers various kinds of laser propulsion, metallic hydrogen, tethers, and unconventional nuclear propulsion. The bibliographic information, pointing to the research on all this stuff, belongs on every daydreamer's shelf. Future Magic. Dr. Robert L. Forward, Avon, 1988. ISBN 0-380-89814-4. Nontechnical discussion of tethers, antimatter, gravity control, and even futher-out topics. SPY SATELLITES *Deep Black*, by William Burrows; "best modern general book for spysats." 1) A Base For Debate: The US Satellite Station at Nurrungar, Des Ball, Allen and Unwin Australia, 1987 ISBN 0 04 355027 4 [ covers DSP early warning satellites] 2) Pine Gap: Australia and the US Geostationary Signals intelligence satellite program, Des Ball, Allen and Unwin Australia, 1988 ISBN 0 04 363002 5. [covers RHYOLITE/AQUACADE, CHALET/VORTEX, and MAGNUM signals intelligence satellites] 3) Guardians: Strategic Reconnaissance Satellites, Curtis Peebles, 1987, Ian Allan, ISBN 0 7110 17654 [ good on MOL, military Salyut and Soviet satellites, less so on others. Tends to believe what he's told so flaws in discussion of DSP, RHYOLITE et al..] 4) America's Secret Eyes In Space: The Keyhole Spy Satellite Program, Jeffrey Richelson, 1990, Harper and Row, ISBN 0 88730 285 8 [ in a class of its own, *the* historical reference on the KEYHOLE satellites] 5) Secret Sentries in Space, Philip J Klass, 1971. "long out of print but well worth a look" SPACE SHUTTLE COMPUTER SYSTEMS %J Communications of the ACM %V 27 %N 9 %D September 1984 %K Special issue on space [shuttle] computers %A Myron Kayton %T Avionics for Manned Spacecraft %J IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems %V 25 %N 6 %D November 1989 %P 786-827 Other various AIAA and IEEE publications. Computers in Spaceflight: The NASA Experience James E. Tomayko 1988? SETI COMPUTATION (SIGNAL PROCESSING) %A D. K. Cullers %A Ivan R. Linscott %A Bernard M. Oliver %T Signal Processing in SETI %J Communications of the ACM %V 28 %N 11 %D November 1984 %P 1151-1163 %K CR Categories and Subject Descriptors: D.4.1 [Operating Systems]: Process Management - concurrency; I.5.4 [Pattern Recognition]: Applications - signal processing; J.2 [Phsyical Sciences and Engineering]: astronomy General Terms: Design Additional Key Words and Phrases: digital Fourier transforms, finite impulse-response filters, interstellar communications, Search for Extra-terrestrial Intelligence, signal detection, spectrum analysis AMATEUR SATELLIES & WEATHER SATELLITES A fairly long writeup on receiving and interpreting weather satellite photos is available from the Ames SPACE archive in pub/SPACE/FAQ/WeatherPhotos. The American Radio Relay League publication service offers the following references (also see the section on AMSAT in the space groups segment of the FAQ): ARRL Satellite Experimenters Handbook, #3185, $20 ARRL Weather Satellite Handbook, #3193, $20 IBM-PC software for Weather Satellite Handbook, #3290, $10 AMSAT NA 5th Space Symposium, #0739, $12 AMSAT NA 6th Space Symposium, #2219, $12 Shipping is extra. The American Radio Relay League Publications Department 225 Main Street Newington, CT 06111 (203)-666-1541 TIDES Srinivas Bettadpur contributed a writeup on tides, available from the Ames SPACE archive in pub/SPACE/FAQ/Tides. It covers the following areas: - 2-D Example of Tidal Deformation - Treatment of Tidal Fields in Practice - Long term evolution of the Earth-Moon system under tides The writeup refers to the following texts: "Geophysical Geodesy" by K. Lambeck "Tides of the planet Earth" by P. Melchior
I'm compiling a bibliography on religious perspectives on esotericism, hermeticism, gnosticism, mysticism, occultism, alchemy and magic, and am interested in sources that others have found particularly interesting and insightful. I'm especially interested in medieval works, such as _The Chemical Wedding of Christian Rosenkreutz_ and Arthurian legends. Please feel free, too, to send personal opinions on any of the above, pro or con or anywhere in between. Thanks much.
I will add my voice to the (hopefully) growing multitudes. I hereby pledge $1000.00 towards the purchase of CNN, under the same conditions as already described. I will also post this idea on the other nets I can access (RIME and Libernet). We may have to organize this ourselves, so I am looking for help.
Glad to hear that it's working for you! I couldn't find it on "export". However, Simon Leinen <simon@liasun6.epfl.ch> has added an Imakefile and an Athena version, and made it available for FTP in the file liasun3.epfl.ch:/pub/X/contrib/xrpc.tar.z. (Note the ".z" suffix; you'll need GNU gzip -- also on liasun3 in /pub/gnu -- to uncompress it.) If this doesn't work, send me a note and I'd be happy to mail you a copy; but you probably won't get it until the start of May -- I'm on holidays as of tomorrow! :-) -- Martin Janzen janzen@mprgate.mpr.ca (134.87.131.13) MPR Teltech Ltd. 8999 Nelson Way Burnaby, BC, CANADA V5A 4B5
Well, I didn't bother writing to Boxer, Feinstein or Eshoo, the terrible trio who allegly represent me. Instead, I wrote to Bentsen. My letter was not exactly strongly-worded; I simply stated that the BATF approach was immoral (military-style assault, firing into a house where they knew there were kids). Aparently, Bentsen forwarded my letter to the BATF and they responded to me directly. It follows the text of your reply pretty closely. However, I intend to send another letter directly to them, in return. This section is not in the letter that I received. The parts about ATF logo and steenking badges or their loss of the element of surprise were not included, either. The same guy with the bad handwriting apparently signed my letter, "for Richard L. Garner; Chief, Special Operations Division".
Cheryl Marks writes That depends. Just how much older were they?
I finally got the vesa driver for my ATI graphics ultra plus (2M). However, when I tried to use this to view under 24bit mode, I get lines on the picture. With 16bit or below, the picture is fine. Can someone tell me what was wrong? Is it the card, or is it the software? -- Thanks 8) _/_/_/_/ _/_/_/ _/ _/ _/_/ _/_/_/ _/_/_/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/_/_/_/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/_/_/_/ _/_/_/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/_/_/_/ _/_/_/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/_/_/
Archive-name: atheism/introduction Alt-atheism-archive-name: introduction Last-modified: 5 April 1993 Version: 1.2 -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----- An Introduction to Atheism by mathew <mathew@mantis.co.uk> This article attempts to provide a general introduction to atheism. Whilst I have tried to be as neutral as possible regarding contentious issues, you should always remember that this document represents only one viewpoint. I would encourage you to read widely and draw your own conclusions; some relevant books are listed in a companion article. To provide a sense of cohesion and progression, I have presented this article as an imaginary conversation between an atheist and a theist. All the questions asked by the imaginary theist are questions which have been cropped up repeatedly on alt.atheism since the newsgroup was created. Some other frequently asked questions are answered in a companion article. Please note that this article is arguably slanted towards answering questions posed from a Christian viewpoint. This is because the FAQ files reflect questions which have actually been asked, and it is predominantly Christians who proselytize on alt.atheism. So when I talk of religion, I am talking primarily about religions such as Christianity, Judaism and Islam, which involve some sort of superhuman divine being. Much of the discussion will apply to other religions, but some of it may not. "What is atheism?" Atheism is characterized by an absence of belief in the existence of God. Some atheists go further, and believe that God does not exist. The former is often referred to as the "weak atheist" position, and the latter as "strong atheism". It is important to note the difference between these two positions. "Weak atheism" is simple scepticism; disbelief in the existence of God. "Strong atheism" is a positive belief that God does not exist. Please do not fall into the trap of assuming that all atheists are "strong atheists". Some atheists believe in the non-existence of all Gods; others limit their atheism to specific Gods, such as the Christian God, rather than making flat-out denials. "But isn't disbelieving in God the same thing as believing he doesn't exist?" Definitely not. Disbelief in a proposition means that one does not believe it to be true. Not believing that something is true is not equivalent to believing that it is false; one may simply have no idea whether it is true or not. Which brings us to agnosticism. "What is agnosticism then?" The term 'agnosticism' was coined by Professor Huxley at a meeting of the Metaphysical Society in 1876. He defined an agnostic as someone who disclaimed ("strong") atheism and believed that the ultimate origin of things must be some cause unknown and unknowable. Thus an agnostic is someone who believes that we do not and cannot know for sure whether God exists. Words are slippery things, and language is inexact. Beware of assuming that you can work out someone's philosophical point of view simply from the fact that she calls herself an atheist or an agnostic. For example, many people use agnosticism to mean "weak atheism", and use the word "atheism" only when referring to "strong atheism". Beware also that because the word "atheist" has so many shades of meaning, it is very difficult to generalize about atheists. About all you can say for sure is that atheists don't believe in God. For example, it certainly isn't the case that all atheists believe that science is the best way to find out about the universe. "So what is the philosophical justification or basis for atheism?" There are many philosophical justifications for atheism. To find out why a particular person chooses to be an atheist, it's best to ask her. Many atheists feel that the idea of God as presented by the major religions is essentially self-contradictory, and that it is logically impossible that such a God could exist. Others are atheists through scepticism, because they see no evidence that God exists. "But isn't it impossible to prove the non-existence of something?" There are many counter-examples to such a statement. For example, it is quite simple to prove that there does not exist a prime number larger than all other prime numbers. Of course, this deals with well-defined objects obeying well-defined rules. Whether Gods or universes are similarly well-defined is a matter for debate. However, assuming for the moment that the existence of a God is not provably impossible, there are still subtle reasons for assuming the non-existence of God. If we assume that something does not exist, it is always possible to show that this assumption is invalid by finding a single counter-example. If on the other hand we assume that something does exist, and if the thing in question is not provably impossible, showing that the assumption is invalid may require an exhaustive search of all possible places where such a thing might be found, to show that it isn't there. Such an exhaustive search is often impractical or impossible. There is no such problem with largest primes, because we can prove that they don't exist. Therefore it is generally accepted that we must assume things do not exist unless we have evidence that they do. Even theists follow this rule most of the time; they don't believe in unicorns, even though they can't conclusively prove that no unicorns exist anywhere. To assume that God exists is to make an assumption which probably cannot be tested. We cannot make an exhaustive search of everywhere God might be to prove that he doesn't exist anywhere. So the sceptical atheist assumes by default that God does not exist, since that is an assumption we can test. Those who profess strong atheism usually do not claim that no sort of God exists; instead, they generally restrict their claims so as to cover varieties of God described by followers of various religions. So whilst it may be impossible to prove conclusively that no God exists, it may be possible to prove that (say) a God as described by a particular religious book does not exist. It may even be possible to prove that no God described by any present-day religion exists. In practice, believing that no God described by any religion exists is very close to believing that no God exists. However, it is sufficiently different that counter-arguments based on the impossibility of disproving every kind of God are not really applicable. "But what if God is essentially non-detectable?" If God interacts with our universe in any way, the effects of his interaction must be measurable. Hence his interaction with our universe must be detectable. If God is essentially non-detectable, it must therefore be the case that he does not interact with our universe in any way. Many atheists would argue that if God does not interact with our universe at all, it is of no importance whether he exists or not. If the Bible is to be believed, God was easily detectable by the Israelites. Surely he should still be detectable today? Note that I am not demanding that God interact in a scientifically verifiable, physical way. It must surely be possible to perceive some effect caused by his presence, though; otherwise, how can I distinguish him from all the other things that don't exist? "OK, you may think there's a philosophical justification for atheism, but isn't it still a religious belief?" One of the most common pastimes in philosophical discussion is "the redefinition game". The cynical view of this game is as follows: Person A begins by making a contentious statement. When person B points out that it can't be true, person A gradually re-defines the words he used in the statement until he arrives at something person B is prepared to accept. He then records the statement, along with the fact that person B has agreed to it, and continues. Eventually A uses the statement as an "agreed fact", but uses his original definitions of all the words in it rather than the obscure redefinitions originally needed to get B to agree to it. Rather than be seen to be apparently inconsistent, B will tend to play along. The point of this digression is that the answer to the question "Isn't atheism a religious belief?" depends crucially upon what is meant by "religious". "Religion" is generally characterized by belief in a superhuman controlling power -- especially in some sort of God -- and by faith and worship. [ It's worth pointing out in passing that some varieties of Buddhism are not "religion" according to such a definition. ] Atheism is certainly not a belief in any sort of superhuman power, nor is it categorized by worship in any meaningful sense. Widening the definition of "religious" to encompass atheism tends to result in many other aspects of human behaviour suddenly becoming classed as "religious" as well -- such as science, politics, and watching TV. "OK, so it's not a religion. But surely belief in atheism (or science) is still just an act of faith, like religion is?" Firstly, it's not entirely clear that sceptical atheism is something one actually believes in. Secondly, it is necessary to adopt a number of core beliefs or assumptions to make some sort of sense out of the sensory data we experience. Most atheists try to adopt as few core beliefs as possible; and even those are subject to questioning if experience throws them into doubt. Science has a number of core assumptions. For example, it is generally assumed that the laws of physics are the same for all observers. These are the sort of core assumptions atheists make. If such basic ideas are called "acts of faith", then almost everything we know must be said to be based on acts of faith, and the term loses its meaning. Faith is more often used to refer to complete, certain belief in something. According to such a definition, atheism and science are certainly not acts of faith. Of course, individual atheists or scientists can be as dogmatic as religious followers when claiming that something is "certain". This is not a general tendency, however; there are many atheists who would be reluctant to state with certainty that the universe exists. Faith is also used to refer to belief without supporting evidence or proof. Sceptical atheism certainly doesn't fit that definition, as sceptical atheism has no beliefs. Strong atheism is closer, but still doesn't really match, as even the most dogmatic atheist will tend to refer to experimental data (or the lack of it) when asserting that God does not exist. "If atheism is not religious, surely it's anti-religious?" It is an unfortunate human tendency to label everyone as either "for" or "against", "friend" or "enemy". The truth is not so clear-cut. Atheism is the position that runs logically counter to theism; in that sense, it can be said to be "anti-religion". However, when religious believers speak of atheists being "anti-religious" they usually mean that the atheists have some sort of antipathy or hatred towards theists. This categorization of atheists as hostile towards religion is quite unfair. Atheist attitudes towards theists in fact cover a broad spectrum. Most atheists take a "live and let live" attitude. Unless questioned, they will not usually mention their atheism, except perhaps to close friends. Of course, this may be in part because atheism is not "socially acceptable" in many countries. A few atheists are quite anti-religious, and may even try to "convert" others when possible. Historically, such anti-religious atheists have made little impact on society outside the Eastern Bloc countries. (To digress slightly: the Soviet Union was originally dedicated to separation of church and state, just like the USA. Soviet citizens were legally free to worship as they wished. The institution of "state atheism" came about when Stalin took control of the Soviet Union and tried to destroy the churches in order to gain complete power over the population.) Some atheists are quite vocal about their beliefs, but only where they see religion encroaching on matters which are not its business -- for example, the government of the USA. Such individuals are usually concerned that church and state should remain separate. "But if you don't allow religion to have a say in the running of the state, surely that's the same as state atheism?" The principle of the separation of church and state is that the state shall not legislate concerning matters of religious belief. In particular, it means not only that the state cannot promote one religion at the expense of another, but also that it cannot promote any belief which is religious in nature. Religions can still have a say in discussion of purely secular matters. For example, religious believers have historically been responsible for encouraging many political reforms. Even today, many organizations campaigning for an increase in spending on foreign aid are founded as religious campaigns. So long as they campaign concerning secular matters, and so long as they do not discriminate on religious grounds, most atheists are quite happy to see them have their say. "What about prayer in schools? If there's no God, why do you care if people pray?" Because people who do pray are voters and lawmakers, and tend to do things that those who don't pray can't just ignore. Also, Christian prayer in schools is intimidating to non-Christians, even if they are told that they need not join in. The diversity of religious and non-religious belief means that it is impossible to formulate a meaningful prayer that will be acceptable to all those present at any public event. Also, non-prayers tend to have friends and family who pray. It is reasonable to care about friends and family wasting their time, even without other motives. "You mentioned Christians who campaign for increased foreign aid. What about atheists? Why aren't there any atheist charities or hospitals? Don't atheists object to the religious charities?" There are many charities without religious purpose that atheists can contribute to. Some atheists contribute to religious charities as well, for the sake of the practical good they do. Some atheists even do voluntary work for charities founded on a theistic basis. Most atheists seem to feel that atheism isn't worth shouting about in connection with charity. To them, atheism is just a simple, obvious everyday matter, and so is charity. Many feel that it's somewhat cheap, not to say self-righteous, to use simple charity as an excuse to plug a particular set of religious beliefs. To "weak" atheists, building a hospital to say "I do not believe in God" is a rather strange idea; it's rather like holding a party to say "Today is not my birthday". Why the fuss? Atheism is rarely evangelical. "You said atheism isn't anti-religious. But is it perhaps a backlash against one's upbringing, a way of rebelling?" Perhaps it is, for some. But many people have parents who do not attempt to force any religious (or atheist) ideas upon them, and many of those people choose to call themselves atheists. It's also doubtless the case that some religious people chose religion as a backlash against an atheist upbringing, as a way of being different. On the other hand, many people choose religion as a way of conforming to the expectations of others. On the whole, we can't conclude much about whether atheism or religion are backlash or conformism; although in general, people have a tendency to go along with a group rather than act or think independently. "How do atheists differ from religious people?" They don't believe in God. That's all there is to it. Atheists may listen to heavy metal -- backwards, even -- or they may prefer a Verdi Requiem, even if they know the words. They may wear Hawaiian shirts, they may dress all in black, they may even wear orange robes. (Many Buddhists lack a belief in any sort of God.) Some atheists even carry a copy of the Bible around -- for arguing against, of course! Whoever you are, the chances are you have met several atheists without realising it. Atheists are usually unexceptional in behaviour and appearance. "Unexceptional? But aren't atheists less moral than religious people?" That depends. If you define morality as obedience to God, then of course atheists are less moral as they don't obey any God. But usually when one talks of morality, one talks of what is acceptable ("right") and unacceptable ("wrong") behaviour within society. Humans are social animals, and to be maximally successful they must co-operate with each other. This is a good enough reason to discourage most atheists from "anti-social" or "immoral" behaviour, purely for the purposes of self-preservation. Many atheists behave in a "moral" or "compassionate" way simply because they feel a natural tendency to empathize with other humans. So why do they care what happens to others? They don't know, they simply are that way. Naturally, there are some people who behave "immorally" and try to use atheism to justify their actions. However, there are equally many people who behave "immorally" and then try to use religious beliefs to justify their actions. For example: "Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance: Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners... But for that very reason, I was shown mercy so that in me... Jesus Christ might display His unlimited patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive eternal life. Now to the king eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever." The above quote is from a statement made to the court on February 17th 1992 by Jeffrey Dahmer, the notorious cannibal serial killer of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It seems that for every atheist mass-murderer, there is a religious mass-murderer. But what of more trivial morality? A survey conducted by the Roper Organization found that behavior deteriorated after "born again" experiences. While only 4% of respondents said they had driven intoxicated before being "born again," 12% had done so after conversion. Similarly, 5% had used illegal drugs before conversion, 9% after. Two percent admitted to engaging in illicit sex before salvation; 5% after. ["Freethought Today", September 1991, p. 12.] So it seems that at best, religion does not have a monopoly on moral behaviour. "Is there such a thing as atheist morality?" If you mean "Is there such a thing as morality for atheists?", then the answer is yes, as explained above. Many atheists have ideas about morality which are at least as strong as those held by religious people. If you mean "Does atheism have a characteristic moral code?", then the answer is no. Atheism by itself does not imply anything much about how a person will behave. Most atheists follow many of the same "moral rules" as theists, but for different reasons. Atheists view morality as something created by humans, according to the way humans feel the world 'ought' to work, rather than seeing it as a set of rules decreed by a supernatural being. "Then aren't atheists just theists who are denying God?" A study by the Freedom From Religion Foundation found that over 90% of the atheists who responded became atheists because religion did not work for them. They had found that religious beliefs were fundamentally incompatible with what they observed around them. Atheists are not unbelievers through ignorance or denial; they are unbelievers through choice. The vast majority of them have spent time studying one or more religions, sometimes in very great depth. They have made a careful and considered decision to reject religious beliefs. This decision may, of course, be an inevitable consequence of that individual's personality. For a naturally sceptical person, the choice of atheism is often the only one that makes sense, and hence the only choice that person can honestly make. "But don't atheists want to believe in God?" Atheists live their lives as though there is nobody watching over them. Many of them have no desire to be watched over, no matter how good-natured the "Big Brother" figure might be. Some atheists would like to be able to believe in God -- but so what? Should one believe things merely because one wants them to be true? The risks of such an approach should be obvious. Atheists often decide that wanting to believe something is not enough; there must be evidence for the belief. "But of course atheists see no evidence for the existence of God -- they are unwilling in their souls to see!" Many, if not most atheists were previously religious. As has been explained above, the vast majority have seriously considered the possibility that God exists. Many atheists have spent time in prayer trying to reach God. Of course, it is true that some atheists lack an open mind; but assuming that all atheists are biased and insincere is offensive and closed-minded. Comments such as "Of course God is there, you just aren't looking properly" are likely to be viewed as patronizing. Certainly, if you wish to engage in philosophical debate with atheists it is vital that you give them the benefit of the doubt and assume that they are being sincere if they say that they have searched for God. If you are not willing to believe that they are basically telling the truth, debate is futile. "Isn't the whole of life completely pointless to an atheist?" Many atheists live a purposeful life. They decide what they think gives meaning to life, and they pursue those goals. They try to make their lives count, not by wishing for eternal life, but by having an influence on other people who will live on. For example, an atheist may dedicate his life to political reform, in the hope of leaving his mark on history. It is a natural human tendency to look for "meaning" or "purpose" in random events. However, it is by no means obvious that "life" is the sort of thing that has a "meaning". To put it another way, not everything which looks like a question is actually a sensible thing to ask. Some atheists believe that asking "What is the meaning of life?" is as silly as asking "What is the meaning of a cup of coffee?". They believe that life has no purpose or meaning, it just is. "So how do atheists find comfort in time of danger?" There are many ways of obtaining comfort; from family, friends, or even pets. Or on a less spiritual level, from food or drink or TV. That may sound rather an empty and vulnerable way to face danger, but so what? Should individuals believe in things because they are comforting, or should they face reality no matter how harsh it might be? In the end, it's a decision for the individual concerned. Most atheists are unable to believe something they would not otherwise believe merely because it makes them feel comfortable. They put truth before comfort, and consider that if searching for truth sometimes makes them feel unhappy, that's just hard luck. "Don't atheists worry that they might suddenly be shown to be wrong?" The short answer is "No, do you?" Many atheists have been atheists for years. They have encountered many arguments and much supposed evidence for the existence of God, but they have found all of it to be invalid or inconclusive. Thousands of years of religious belief haven't resulted in any good proof of the existence of God. Atheists therefore tend to feel that they are unlikely to be proved wrong in the immediate future, and they stop worrying about it. "So why should theists question their beliefs? Don't the same arguments apply?" No, because the beliefs being questioned are not similar. Weak atheism is the sceptical "default position" to take; it asserts nothing. Strong atheism is a negative belief. Theism is a very strong positive belief. Atheists sometimes also argue that theists should question their beliefs because of the very real harm they can cause -- not just to the believers, but to everyone else. "What sort of harm?" Religion represents a huge financial and work burden on mankind. It's not just a matter of religious believers wasting their money on church buildings; think of all the time and effort spent building churches, praying, and so on. Imagine how that effort could be better spent. Many theists believe in miracle healing. There have been plenty of instances of ill people being "healed" by a priest, ceasing to take the medicines prescribed to them by doctors, and dying as a result. Some theists have died because they have refused blood transfusions on religious grounds. It is arguable that the Catholic Church's opposition to birth control -- and condoms in particular -- is increasing the problem of overpopulation in many third-world countries and contributing to the spread of AIDS world-wide. Religious believers have been known to murder their children rather than allow their children to become atheists or marry someone of a different religion. "Those weren't REAL believers. They just claimed to be believers as some sort of excuse." What makes a real believer? There are so many One True Religions it's hard to tell. Look at Christianity: there are many competing groups, all convinced that they are the only true Christians. Sometimes they even fight and kill each other. How is an atheist supposed to decide who's a REAL Christian and who isn't, when even the major Christian churches like the Catholic Church and the Church of England can't decide amongst themselves? In the end, most atheists take a pragmatic view, and decide that anyone who calls himself a Christian, and uses Christian belief or dogma to justify his actions, should be considered a Christian. Maybe some of those Christians are just perverting Christian teaching for their own ends -- but surely if the Bible can be so readily used to support un-Christian acts it can't be much of a moral code? If the Bible is the word of God, why couldn't he have made it less easy to misinterpret? And how do you know that your beliefs aren't a perversion of what your God intended? If there is no single unambiguous interpretation of the Bible, then why should an atheist take one interpretation over another just on your say-so? Sorry, but if someone claims that he believes in Jesus and that he murdered others because Jesus and the Bible told him to do so, we must call him a Christian. "Obviously those extreme sorts of beliefs should be questioned. But since nobody has ever proved that God does not exist, it must be very unlikely that more basic religious beliefs, shared by all faiths, are nonsense." That does not hold, because as was pointed out at the start of this dialogue, positive assertions concerning the existence of entities are inherently much harder to disprove than negative ones. Nobody has ever proved that unicorns don't exist, but that doesn't make it unlikely that they are myths. It is therefore much more valid to hold a negative assertion by default than it is to hold a positive assertion by default. Of course, "weak" atheists would argue that asserting nothing is better still. "Well, if atheism's so great, why are there so many theists?" Unfortunately, the popularity of a belief has little to do with how "correct" it is, or whether it "works"; consider how many people believe in astrology, graphology, and other pseudo-sciences. Many atheists feel that it is simply a human weakness to want to believe in gods. Certainly in many primitive human societies, religion allows the people to deal with phenomena that they do not adequately understand. Of course, there's more to religion than that. In the industrialized world, we find people believing in religious explanations of phenomena even when there are perfectly adequate natural explanations. Religion may have started as a means of attempting to explain the world, but nowadays it serves other purposes as well. "But so many cultures have developed religions. Surely that must say something?" Not really. Most religions are only superficially similar; for example, it's worth remembering that religions such as Buddhism and Taoism lack any sort of concept of God in the Christian sense. Of course, most religions are quick to denounce competing religions, so it's rather odd to use one religion to try and justify another. "What about all the famous scientists and philosophers who have concluded that God exists?" For every scientist or philosopher who believes in a god, there is one who does not. Besides, as has already been pointed out, the truth of a belief is not determined by how many people believe it. Also, it is important to realize that atheists do not view famous scientists or philosophers in the same way that theists view their religious leaders. A famous scientist is only human; she may be an expert in some fields, but when she talks about other matters her words carry no special weight. Many respected scientists have made themselves look foolish by speaking on subjects which lie outside their fields of expertise. "So are you really saying that widespread belief in religion indicates nothing?" Not entirely. It certainly indicates that the religion in question has properties which have helped it so spread so far. The theory of memetics talks of "memes" -- sets of ideas which can propagate themselves between human minds, by analogy with genes. Some atheists view religions as sets of particularly successful parasitic memes, which spread by encouraging their hosts to convert others. Some memes avoid destruction by discouraging believers from questioning doctrine, or by using peer pressure to keep one-time believers from admitting that they were mistaken. Some religious memes even encourage their hosts to destroy hosts controlled by other memes. Of course, in the memetic view there is no particular virtue associated with successful propagation of a meme. Religion is not a good thing because of the number of people who believe it, any more than a disease is a good thing because of the number of people who have caught it. "Even if religion is not entirely true, at least it puts across important messages. What are the fundamental messages of atheism?" There are many important ideas atheists promote. The following are just a few of them; don't be surprised to see ideas which are also present in some religions. There is more to moral behaviour than mindlessly following rules. Be especially sceptical of positive claims. If you want your life to have some sort of meaning, it's up to you to find it. Search for what is true, even if it makes you uncomfortable. Make the most of your life, as it's probably the only one you'll have. It's no good relying on some external power to change you; you must change yourself. Just because something's popular doesn't mean it's good. If you must assume something, assume something it's easy to test. Don't believe things just because you want them to be true. and finally (and most importantly): All beliefs should be open to question. Thanks for taking the time to read this article. mathew -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE----- Version: 2.2 iQCVAgUBK8AjRXzXN+VrOblFAQFSbwP+MHePY4g7ge8Mo5wpsivX+kHYYxMErFAO 7ltVtMVTu66Nz6sBbPw9QkbjArbY/S2sZ9NF5htdii0R6SsEyPl0R6/9bV9okE/q nihqnzXE8pGvLt7tlez4EoeHZjXLEFrdEyPVayT54yQqGb4HARbOEHDcrTe2atmP q0Z4hSSPpAU= =q2V5 -----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
Hi, I have a trident TVGA-8900 video card and need the updated drivers for Win3.1 where can I get them from an ftp site. Thanks
I would think that you could reduce the defense of using non-clipper based encryption technologies to defending freedom of expression (IE, free speech). That you have to right to express whatever you want in whatever form your little heart desires so long as you do not impinge on the rights of others. Encrypted text/sound/video is just another form of expression of that particular text/sound/video. Just like digitized sound is another means of expression of sound -- streams of 100100101111 instead of continuous waveforms. Also, it shouldn't be up to the government at all. Encryption _Standards_ can be decided upon by Independent Standards Orgainizations (apologies for the acronym). One can note how well this has worked with ISO and the Metric System, SAE, etc. Independent entities or consortia of people/industries in that particular area are far more qualified to set standards than any One government agency. Consider for example what the Ascii character set would have looked like if it was decided by the government. I hope this helps folks to formulate their defenses. I'm still working on mine and hope to be faxing my congressmen soon...
Koff! You mean that as long as I put you to sleep first, I can kill you without being cruel? This changes everything.
Oh, I see, flame someone, tell them that they are immature, tell them they are wrong, and then don't offer any proof for your assertions. You really *are* a putz. Put up or shut up. cpk
PC Magazine, January 12, 1993 had a review of several personal finance management programe, as did PC-Computing, January 1993. PC World, December 1992 also had articles about Quicken and Managing Your Money. I can email you copies of these articles if you can't find them at your library. I've been using Managing Your Money for several years, and I have several friends who use Quicken, though I've not used it myself. My overall impression is that Quicken is a financial accounts manager while Managing Your Money will help you more completely manage your finances. Here are some features that I believe Managing Your Money and Quicken share: The ability to keep records for each of your financial accounts: checking, savings, charge, cash, or brokerage. You can reconcile your account statements with the records the program keeps. The ability to make a budget and track your spending against that budget. A Checkfree module which will allow you to use the Checkfree bill paying service to pay your bills via your modem. The ability to print checks on your printer. The ability to keep loan records and set up automatic loan payments. The ability to import stock quotations to keep your brokerage accounts up to date. I know Managing Your Money can do this automatically via modem. Quicken probably can as well, but I'm not sure about it. The ability to export tax information to popular tax preparation programs. Here are some features that I believe Managing Your Money has that Quicken does not: A tax prediction module. This looks at your accounts and budget to predict your tax liability for the coming year. It's usefull to fine tune your withholding so Uncle Sam doesn't get his due too early. An insurance and vital records module. This is a place to keep records of your insurance policies as well as other vital records. It can also compute your life expectancy. A financial analysis module. This computes compound interest, effects of inflation, loan payments term or interest, yield to maturity for bonds, savings account yields, days between dates, and loan amortization schedules. It also has functions to help you decide whether to refinance your mortgage, whether you can afford a particular home, whether a particular rental property is a good investment, whether you should buy lease or rent, and whether a particular investment's cash flow is adequate for your situation. This module can also help you plan for retirement and for helping your kids with their tuition. A net worth module. This is a place to record all your assets and liabilities. Your net worth can be computed from this information. Any assets or liabilities recorded in other modules are automatically included here. A "desk" module. This includes a small word processor, a card file you can use to store names, addresses, phone numbers and other vital information about friends and associates, a perpetual calander, a rudimentary calculator, a to-do list, a reminder list, an appointment list, and a place to record your phone calls (for those who need to track such things). Your appointments, reminders and to-do list can be made to display automatically when you start the program. There are probably some things listed above that Quicken has, but I'm almost sure that Quicken doesn't do everything I've listed. If I'm wrong, I'm sure hordes of Quicken devotees will flame me to a crisp. One thing that Quicken has that Managing Your Money does not yet have is a Windows version. MECA software is rumored to be working on a Windows version of Managing Your Money for release late this year.
I'd personally prefer Buffalo-Boston, as a birthday gift from ESPN, but I don't think the folks at ESPN will accomodate that for me ;-) ESPN has this inexplicable affinity for the Patrick division, it seems.
What follows is my opinion. It is not asserted to be "the truth" so no flames, please. It comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior corporate staff executive in two Fortune 50 companies. I'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the NSA for business, if they told me it was more secure than DES, and in particular resistant to attempts by Japanese, French, and other competitive companies and governments to break. I'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys, provided I was happy about the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the Federal Reserve would certainly satisfy me, as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms). I'd trust the NSA or the President if they stated there were no trap doors--I'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure. I'd trust something from the NSA long before I'd trust something from some Swiss or anybody Japanese. This may seem surprising to some here, but I suggest most corporations would feel the same way. Most/many/some (pick one) corporations have an attitude that the NSA is part of our government and "we support our government", as one very famous CEO put it to me one day. Just some perspective from another point of view.
I am in the market for a 24-bit graphics card for a PC (ISA bus), and was wondering if anyone had any comments (good? bad? otherwise?) regarding the Diamond Stealth 24?
Well, since you mentioned it... No question here. Chip in the Masterson as well... Yep. If you asked me 30 days ago, I'd agree with you. I now give the nod to Raymond Bourque; his play took off the same time the B's did. Chelios gets a close second... Barrasso finally gets his due, in a close one over Eddie the Eagle... In *your* case, that bias is acceptable :-)... Mine shows with the Norris pick, so we're even... I'm impressed with what all the coaches you mentioned did, but my pick would be Al Arbour. Not too many folks thought the Isles would be in the playoffs, let alone contend for 3rd in their division... Granted that they *did* have a little help from their cousins on Broadway... :-) And I like the Islanders about as much as I like mowing my lawn...
I am getting Garbled output when serial printing thru Windows & works etc. This has occurred on several systems and goes if a LaserJet 4 is used. I suspect that there is no need for handshaking in this case due to the capacity (memory/speed) of it. There is no problem printing from DOS. Are there any obvious tweaks I'm missing. I'm sure its not JUST me with this problem. Thanks for reading.... John Atherton
What are the current products available to upgrade the resolution? Which ones support postscript? Any experiences with them, either good or bad? Is the quality difference really noticable?
Dear Reader, I'am searching for an implementation of a polygon reduction algorithm for marching cubes surfaces. I think the best one is the reduction algorithm from Schroeder et al., SIGGRAPH '92. So, is there any implementation of this algorithm, it would be very nice if you could leave it to me. Also I'am looking for a fast !!! connectivity test for marching cubes surfaces. Any help or hints will be very useful. Thanks a lot
Not to worry. The Masons have been demonized and harrassed by almost every major Xian church there is. For centuries now. And still they stand. They wil withstand the miserable Southern Boobtists, I am sure. They may even pick up a little support as people start to listen to the Boobtists and realize that subtracting the obvious lies and claims of Satanism that the Masons sound pretty good by comparison. One thing is known. A sizable proportion of Southern Babtists are Masons! And the Masons have already fired back in their own magazines against the Boobtist Witch-hunt. Since the Consrervatives have already been a divisive element with their war on Boobtist moderates and liberals, they may now start in on their Mason/Boobtist brothers and hasten their own downfall as more and more Southern Boobtists realize their church can't stand being run by a handful of clowns looking for holy civil wars and purity tests and drop 'em out of the leadership positions they have taken over. So as far as I am concerned, the louder, ruder, and more outrageous an Anti-Masonic Crusade these old goats mount, the better. Pop some pocorn and get a center row seat. The circus is about to begin. And, Oh Look! HERE COME THE CLOWNS! Pope Charles Slack!
: > I'm a commited Christian that is battling with a problem. I know : > that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our deeds, yet : > hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless, saying' You fools, : > do you still think that just believing is enough?' : : [Stuff deleted] : : > Now I am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what you do) : > as taught in Romans, but how can I square up in my mind the teachings of James : > in conjunction with the lukewarm Christian being 'spat-out' : > : > Can anyone help me, this really bothers me. : I have received tons of mail from people replying to this article I wrote, and I would just like to thank everyone who took the time to give me a hand. It has indeed helped me and re-affirmed alot of theories that I held but was a little unsure about. God bless you all Will
Where do insparations/Miracles fit in? I was a new reader to the bible and Qu'ran at the same time in my life and I can tell you that I would have drifted in my faith if Those books were not exposed to me.
Path: news.larc.nasa.gov!darwin.sura.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!linac!att!bu.edu!dozonoff From: dozonoff@bu.edu (david ozonoff) Newsgroups: sci.med Date: 21 Apr 93 16:18:19 GMT References: <PAULSON.93Apr19081647@cmb00.larc.nasa.gov> Sender: news@bu.edu Lines: 22 X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL5 : {much deleted] : : : The fact that this happened while eating two sugar coated cereals made : by Kellog's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to : something in the coating or the cereals. Of the four of us in our : immediate family, Kathryn shows the least signs of the hay fever, running : nose, itchy eyes, etc. but we have a lot of allergies in our family history : including some weird food allergies - nuts, mushrooms. : Many of these cereals are corn-based. After your post I looked in the literature and located two articles that implicated corn (contains tryptophan) and seizures. The idea is that corn in the diet might potentiate an already existing or latent seizure disorder, not cause it. Check to see if the two Kellog cereals are corn based. I'd be interested. -- David Ozonoff, MD, MPH |Boston University School of Public Health dozonoff@med-itvax1.bu.edu |80 East Concord St., T3C (617) 638-4620 |Boston, MA 02118 A couple of folks have suggested the "corn connection". In the five month period between the two seizures, my daughter had eaten a fair amount of Kix and Berry Berry Kix in the mornings and never had a problem. I checked the labels and the first ingredient is corn. She has also never had a problem eating corn or corn on the cob but of course, that is usually later in the day with a full stomach so the absorption would not be so high. I do believe that Frost Flakes have corn in them but I will have to check the Fruit Loops. But the fact that she has eaten this other corny cereal in the morning makes me wonder. Thanks for checking into this. All information at this point is valuable to me. Sharon
Garrett, you are a really pathetic liar. Some of your charges are arguable, but most of them are obvious lies. I challenge you to present us with any evidence that Nixon stole, rigged a national election, never mind elections, or used the powers of his office for personal gain. You can't because there is absolutely no evidence that any of these events occurred.
You may have to define your serial ports under windows (I think it's the Control Panel, PORTS options..) Mattias
OK, I admit I have no hard data on this. Why don't you help me with this? If you would compile a commented list of all grants, un-repaid loans (if any), and direct aid, I'd be very interested to see it. If you could give me references from, for example, Congressional Budget Authorization Hearings, I could look them up here and I'd be happy to post a verification of your data. Otherwise, I'll try my hand at this, but unfortunately I won't have sufficient time available until the end of this month, so the results would be delayed. Let me know if you're interested in doing this. ___Samuel___ Mossad Special Agent ID314159 Media Spiking and Mind Control Division Los Angeles Offices
^^^^^^^ Probably cheaper than you think. I'll bet some of my (and yours) tax dollars become a subsidy for these chips. If these chips don't sell well, what's to stop the US government from 'giving' them away (in the interest of National Security)? -- Steven P. Holton Network Administrator - RTP FAST Northern Telecom, Inc. Replies To: cmsph02@nt.com on bounce: [ sholton@aol.com | 70521.2430@compuserve.com ]
I'm the keeper of the stats for a family hockey pool and I'm looking for daily/weekly email servers for playoff stats. I've connected with the servers at J.Militzok@skidmore.EDU and wilson@cs.ucf.edu. I'm still sorting these two out. Are there others? Email please as my site doesn't get this group. Thanks. Rick
Mr. Hernandez Ñ- I apologize for the misunderstanding. I explained that I know that it is essential for some fans to get scores here, for they cannot get them elsewhere. I have no problem with what you do, posting scores AFTER the games have been completed. However, like I said earlier, I don't think it is a necessity to post scores during the middle of games, like some others have come to practice.
blechhhh. Gimme that ole' time Inquisition ... It figures, doesn't it?
There are 2 books published by M&T BOOKS that come with C source code on floppies. They are: Programming In 3 Dimensions, 3-D Graphics, Ray Traycing, and Animation by: Christopher D. Watkins and Larry Sharp. Photorealism and Ray Tracing in C by: Christopher D. Watkins, Stephen B. Coy, and Mark Finlay. I have the first book and it is a great intro to 3-D, Ray Tracing and Animation. Most of the programs are on the disk compiled and ready to run. I have only glanced at the second book but it also appears to be good. Hope this helps! Mark Larsen --------------------------------------------------------------------------- markl@hunan.rastek.com
No one is questioning whether Mr. King is black. The question arises whether King's race should make police officers "afraid as hell." Your statement seems to imply that cops should have a different standard for large black guys than for just large guys in general. That two posts later you don't understand why anyone pointed out your use of the adjective is almost as informative as your original use.
Are you using Windows 3.0 or 3.1? If you're still on 3.0, 3.1 devotes about twice as much memory to these and runs out much less frequently. If 3.1, you might use one of the resource monitors (such as the one that comes with the Windows 3.1 Resource Kit or one of the many shareware ones available) to see which programs are hogging the resources (every icon, internal graphics brush, etc. in every program running uses a certain amount of this limited memory area. Also, some don't give it back when they're finished).
If the Administration is this far along, is it possible that the government been working on it for a while and has been using the Dennings to prime the pump, so to speak, or as the Judas goat? Whether paid off, just gullible, or what, doesn't really matter. It might also be possible that the NSA / whoever has had the idea for this for quite a while, has been promoting it (Denning, et al) and siezed the new opportunity - a new administration who wants to spend more money on espionage than Bush did. Whatever, i'm not so sure that the cause/effect order is totally obvious.
Avery was the #2 overall pick by the Braves, behind Mark Lewis (I think) in 1988. John Smoltz came over to the Braves from the Tigers, but was developed by the Braves. Jeff Blauser isn't a bad player. -- Dale J. Stephenson |*| (steph@cs.uiuc.edu) |*| Baseball fanatic
Greetings all. According to a FAQ I read, on 30 July 1992, Joshua C. Jensen posted an article on bitmap manipulation (specifically, scaling and perspective) to the newsgroup rec.games.programmer. (article 7716) The article included source code in Turbo Pascal with inline assembly language. I have been unable to find an archive for this newsgroup, or a current email address for Joshua C. Jensen. If anyone has the above details, or a copy of the code, could they please let me know. Many thanks. Yours gratefully, etc. Myles.
I would like to add my support for a misc.taoism discussion group. I applaud the enthusiam shown by the person posting <79899@cup.portal.com> "Thyagi@cup.portal.com" (I read in alt.magick), but I differ with him/her in believing that at least some minimal parameters should be agreed upon. But if we don't limit it to *something*, the discussion degenerates into a big amorphous glob. Other questions Thyagi proposes are: It seems to me that these questions more properly fall into the category of "general metaphysics". I would prefer any misc.taoism to deal more closely with topics and works more closely associated with at least "semi-orthodox" Taoism: with established classic works definitely included and works like Mantak Chia's argued about! I think "neo-Taoism" should be excluded or get its own group (what I mean by this is "Humpty-Dumpty Taoism", in which Taoism means whatever a poster says it means.) This "alt.taoism" could also be a refuge for debates about what "Taoism *REALLY* means" or speculations on sexual alchemy, etc.. e.g. (from Thyagi again): Kent gloomily predicts (quoting from Thyagi's article): I think that discussions of this nature are not completely out of place. What's happening is that that the term "Taoism" is becoming completely polluted and trivialized like the words "magic", "Alchemy", "Zen," etc., by writers appropriating the word to mean whatever they want. This is seen by the spate of new age books entitled "The Tao of" this, that, and everything else. (With respect to some exceptions like the books by Jou, Tsung-Hwa.) Any other comments/ideas? I look forward to seeing them. On balance, I say let misc.taoism rip and let the chips fall where they may. If it just gets filled up with college freshmen asking about the Tao of Sex then it will have been a failure and people will post to these groups just as they do now. --
As quoted from <1993Apr17.025258.7013@microsoft.com> by anthonyf@microsoft.com (Anthony Francisco): That's life. First you marry Imelda Marcos, then you die! :) And that's the HARD stuff to copy!
Wow, you guys are really going wild on this IDE vs. SCSI thing, and I think it's great! However, I think that some people (such as myself) would benefit from answers to the simple(?) question: Which would YOU choose, and why? Like lots of people, I'd really like to increase my data transfer rate from the hard drive. Right now I have a 15ms 210Mb IDE drive (Seagate 1239A), and what I would say is a standard (not special, no cache I believe) IDE controller card on my ISA 486-50. I'm currently thinking about adding another HD, in the 300Mb to 500Mb range. And I'm thinking hard (you should hear those gears a-grinding in my head) about buying a SCSI drive (SCSI for the future benefit). I believe I'm getting something like 890Kb/sec transfer right now (according to NU). How would this number compare if I bought the state-of-the-art SCSI card for my ISA PC, and the state-of-the-art SCSI hard drive (the wailing-est system I could hope for)? Obviously money factors into this choice as well as any other, but what would YOU want to use on your ISA system? And how much would it cost? Along those lines, what kind of transfer rate could I see with my IDE HD's if I were to buy the top-of-the-line IDE caching controller for my 200Mb, 15ms HD? And how much would it cost? I actually have a PAS-16, and could (what a waste I guess it would be...) hook up a SCSI HD through it's SCSI port which yields an optimum of 690Kb/sec. Actually, I have a borrowed 12ms Fujitsu HD hooked up through it now (and own the Trantor HD drivers for the PAS-16 SCSI port). Is this SCSI port a SCSI-2 port? How could I tell? Is the Fujitsu 2623A a SCSI-2? Are all SCSI HD's SCSI-2? Thanks for any comments.
I tried to mail Peter Boucher, who posted the question, but my e-mail bounced, so, apologies to thsoe who are not interested. Have you read: Bremner,A., On Trinomials of Type x$+n$-+Ax$+m$-+1. Math. Scand. 49(1981) pp. 145-155. Zbl. 458.12012. MR 83k:12002. Ljunggren,W., On the Irreducibility of Certain Trinomials and Quadrinomials. Math. Scand. 8(1960) pp. 65-70. . Tverberg,H., On the Irreducibility of the Trinomials x$+n$-$mpm$$x$+m$-$mpm$$1. Math. Scand. 8(1960) pp. 121-126. Tverberg,H., On Cubic Factors of Certain Trinomials. Math. Scand. 53(1983) pp. 178-184. Zbl. 513.12003.
The rumour was basically everywhere in Toronto based on reports that Keenan has told both San Jose and Philadelphia that he was no longer interested in pursuing further negotiations with either team. The Ranger announcement is supposed to happen tomorrow supposedly. The Rangers have so many veterans that they had to get a coach with "weight" and a proven record...and whom they know Messier respects.
Archive-name: space/math Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:12 $ PERFORMING CALCULATIONS AND INTERPRETING DATA FORMATS COMPUTING SPACECRAFT ORBITS AND TRAJECTORIES References that have been frequently recommended on the net are: "Fundamentals of Astrodynamics" Roger Bate, Donald Mueller, Jerry White 1971, Dover Press, 455pp $8.95 (US) (paperback). ISBN 0-486-60061-0 NASA Spaceflight handbooks (dating from the 1960s) SP-33 Orbital Flight Handbook (3 parts) SP-34 Lunar Flight Handbook (3 parts) SP-35 Planetary Flight Handbook (9 parts) These might be found in university aeronautics libraries or ordered through the US Govt. Printing Office (GPO), although more information would probably be needed to order them. M. A. Minovitch, _The Determination and Characteristics of Ballistic Interplanetary Trajectories Under the Influence of Multiple Planetary Attractions_, Technical Report 32-464, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif., Oct, 1963. The title says all. Starts of with the basics and works its way up. Very good. It has a companion article: M. Minovitch, _Utilizing Large Planetary Perubations for the Design of Deep-Space Solar-Probe and Out of Ecliptic Trajectories_, Technical Report 32-849, JPL, Pasadena, Calif., 1965. You need to read the first one first to realy understand this one. It does include a _short_ summary if you can only find the second. Contact JPL for availability of these reports. "Spacecraft Attitude Dynamics", Peter C. Hughes 1986, John Wiley and Sons. "Celestial Mechanics: a computational guide for the practitioner", Lawrence G. Taff, (Wiley-Interscience, New York, 1985). Starts with the basics (2-body problem, coordinates) and works up to orbit determinations, perturbations, and differential corrections. Taff also briefly discusses stellar dynamics including a short discussion of n-body problems. COMPUTING PLANETARY POSITIONS More net references: Van Flandern & Pullinen, _Low-Precision Formulae for Planetary Positions_, Astrophysical J. Supp Series, 41:391-411, 1979. Look in an astronomy or physics library for this; also said to be available from Willmann-Bell. Gives series to compute positions accurate to 1 arc minute for a period + or - 300 years from now. Pluto is included but stated to have an accuracy of only about 15 arc minutes. _Multiyear Interactive Computer Almanac_ (MICA), produced by the US Naval Observatory. Valid for years 1990-1999. $55 ($80 outside US). Available for IBM (order #PB93-500163HDV) or Macintosh (order #PB93-500155HDV). From the NTIS sales desk, (703)-487-4650. I believe this is intended to replace the USNO's Interactive Computer Ephemeris. _Interactive Computer Ephemeris_ (from the US Naval Observatory) distributed on IBM-PC floppy disks, $35 (Willmann-Bell). Covers dates 1800-2049. "Planetary Programs and Tables from -4000 to +2800", Bretagnon & Simon 1986, Willmann-Bell. Floppy disks available separately. "Fundamentals of Celestial Mechanics" (2nd ed), J.M.A. Danby 1988, Willmann-Bell. A good fundamental text. Includes BASIC programs; a companion set of floppy disks is available separately. "Astronomical Formulae for Calculators" (4th ed.), J. Meeus 1988, Willmann-Bell. "Astronomical Algorithms", J. Meeus 1991, Willmann-Bell. If you actively use one of the editions of "Astronomical Formulae for Calculators", you will want to replace it with "Astronomical Algorithms". This new book is more oriented towards computers than calculators and contains formulae for planetary motion based on modern work by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the U.S. Naval Observatory, and the Bureau des Longitudes. The previous books were all based on formulae mostly developed in the last century. Algorithms available separately on diskette. "Practical Astronomy with your Calculator" (3rd ed.), P. Duffett-Smith 1988, Cambridge University Press. "Orbits for Amateurs with a Microcomputer", D. Tattersfield 1984, Stanley Thornes, Ltd. Includes example programs in BASIC. "Orbits for Amateurs II", D. Tattersfield 1987, John Wiley & Sons. "Astronomy / Scientific Software" - catalog of shareware, public domain, and commercial software for IBM and other PCs. Astronomy software includes planetarium simulations, ephemeris generators, astronomical databases, solar system simulations, satellite tracking programs, celestial mechanics simulators, and more. Andromeda Software, Inc. P.O. Box 605 Amherst, NY 14226-0605 COMPUTING CRATER DIAMETERS FROM EARTH-IMPACTING ASTEROIDS Astrogeologist Gene Shoemaker proposes the following formula, based on studies of cratering caused by nuclear tests. (1/3.4) D = S S c K W : crater diameter in km g p f n (1/6) S = (g /g ) : gravity correction factor for bodies other than g e t Earth, where g = 9.8 m/s^2 and g is the surface e t gravity of the target body. This scaling is cited for lunar craters and may hold true for other bodies. (1/3.4) S = (p / p ) : correction factor for target density p , p a t t p = 1.8 g/cm^3 for alluvium at the Jangle U a crater site, p = 2.6 g/cm^3 for average rock on the continental shields. C : crater collapse factor, 1 for craters <= 3 km in diameter, 1.3 for larger craters (on Earth). (1/3.4) K : .074 km / (kT TNT equivalent) n empirically determined from the Jangle U nuclear test crater. 3 2 19 W = pi * d * delta * V / (12 * 4.185 * 10 ) : projectile kinetic energy in kT TNT equivalent given diameter d, velocity v, and projectile density delta in CGS units. delta of around 3 g/cm^3 is fairly good for an asteroid. An RMS velocity of V = 20 km/sec may be used for Earth-crossing asteroids. Under these assumptions, the body which created the Barringer Meteor Crater in Arizona (1.13 km diameter) would have been about 40 meters in diameter. More generally, one can use (after Gehrels, 1985): Asteroid Number of objects Impact probability Impact energy diameter (km) (impacts/year) (* 5*10^20 ergs) 10 10 10^-8 10^9 1 1 000 10^-6 10^6 0.1 100 000 10^-4 10^3 assuming simple scaling laws. Note that 5*10^20 ergs = 13 000 tons TNT equivalent, or the energy released by the Hiroshima A-bomb. References: Gehrels, T. 1985 Asteroids and comets. _Physics Today_ 38, 32-41. [an excellent general overview of the subject for the layman] Shoemaker, E.M. 1983 Asteroid and comet bombardment of the earth. _Ann. Rev. Earth Planet. Sci._ 11, 461-494. [very long and fairly technical but a comprehensive examination of the subject] Shoemaker, E.M., J.G. Williams, E.F. Helin & R.F. Wolfe 1979 Earth-crossing asteroids: Orbital classes, collision rates with Earth, and origin. In _Asteroids_, T. Gehrels, ed., pp. 253-282, University of Arizona Press, Tucson. Cunningham, C.J. 1988 _Introduction to Asteroids: The Next Frontier_ (Richmond: Willman-Bell, Inc.) [covers all aspects of asteroid studies and is an excellent introduction to the subject for people of all experience levels. It also has a very extensive reference list covering essentially all of the reference material in the field.] MAP PROJECTIONS AND SPHERICAL TRIGNOMETRY Two easy-to-find sources of map projections are the "Encyclopaedia Brittanica", (particularly the older volumes) and a tutorial appearing in _Graphics Gems_ (Academic Press, 1990). The latter was written with simplicity of exposition and suitability of digital computation in mind (spherical trig formulae also appear, as do digitally-plotted examples). More than you ever cared to know about map projections is in John Snyder's USGS publication "Map Projections--A Working Manual", USGS Professional Paper 1395. This contains detailed descriptions of 32 projections, with history, features, projection formulas (for both spherical earth and ellipsoidal earth), and numerical test cases. It's a neat book, all 382 pages worth. This one's $20. You might also want the companion volume, by Snyder and Philip Voxland, "An Album of Map Projections", USGS Professional Paper 1453. This contains less detail on about 130 projections and variants. Formulas are in the back, example plots in the front. $14, 250 pages. You can order these 2 ways. The cheap, slow way is direct from USGS: Earth Science Information Center, US Geological Survey, 507 National Center, Reston, VA 22092. (800)-USA-MAPS. They can quote you a price and tell you where to send your money. Expect a 6-8 week turnaround time. A much faster way (about 1 week) is through Timely Discount Topos, (303)-469-5022, 9769 W. 119th Drive, Suite 9, Broomfield, CO 80021. Call them and tell them what you want. They'll quote a price, you send a check, and then they go to USGS Customer Service Counter and pick it up for you. Add about a $3-4 service charge, plus shipping. A (perhaps more accessible) mapping article is: R. Miller and F. Reddy, "Mapping the World in Pascal", Byte V12 #14, December 1987 Contains Turbo Pascal procedures for five common map projections. A demo program, CARTOG.PAS, and a small (6,000 point) coastline data is available on CompuServe, GEnie, and many BBSs. Some references for spherical trignometry are: _Spherical Astronomy_, W.M. Smart, Cambridge U. Press, 1931. _A Compendium of Spherical Astronomy_, S. Newcomb, Dover, 1960. _Spherical Astronomy_, R.M. Green, Cambridge U. Press., 1985 (update of Smart). _Spherical Astronomy_, E Woolard and G.Clemence, Academic Press, 1966. PERFORMING N-BODY SIMULATIONS EFFICIENTLY "Computer Simulation Using Particles" R. W. Hockney and J. W. Eastwood (Adam Hilger; Bristol and Philadelphia; 1988) "The rapid evaluation of potential fields in particle systems", L. Greengard MIT Press, 1988. A breakthrough O(N) simulation method. Has been parallelized. L. Greengard and V. Rokhlin, "A fast algorithm for particle simulations," Journal of Computational Physics, 73:325-348, 1987. "An O(N) Algorithm for Three-dimensional N-body Simulations", MSEE thesis, Feng Zhao, MIT AILab Technical Report 995, 1987 "Galactic Dynamics" J. Binney & S. Tremaine (Princeton U. Press; Princeton; 1987) Includes an O(N^2) FORTRAN code written by Aarseth, a pioneer in the field. Hierarchical (N log N) tree methods are described in these papers: A. W. Appel, "An Efficient Program for Many-body Simulation", SIAM Journal of Scientific and Statistical Computing, Vol. 6, p. 85, 1985. Barnes & Hut, "A Hierarchical O(N log N) Force-Calculation Algorithm", Nature, V324 # 6096, 4-10 Dec 1986. L. Hernquist, "Hierarchical N-body Methods", Computer Physics Communications, Vol. 48, p. 107, 1988. INTERPRETING THE FITS IMAGE FORMAT If you just need to examine FITS images, use the ppm package (see the comp.graphics FAQ) to convert them to your preferred format. For more information on the format and other software to read and write it, see the sci.astro.fits FAQ. SKY (UNIX EPHEMERIS PROGRAM) The 6th Edition of the Unix operating system came with several software systems not distributed because of older media capacity limitations. Included were an ephmeris, a satellite track, and speech synthesis software. The ephmeris, sky(6), is available within AT&T and to sites possessing a Unix source code license. The program is regarded as Unix source code. Sky is <0.5MB. Send proof of source code license to E. Miya MS 258-5 NASA Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 eugene@orville.nas.nasa.gov THREE-DIMENSIONAL STAR/GALAXY COORDINATES To generate 3D coordinates of astronomical objects, first obtain an astronomical database which specifies right ascension, declination, and parallax for the objects. Convert parallax into distance using the formula in part 6 of the FAQ, convert RA and declination to coordinates on a unit sphere (see some of the references on planetary positions and spherical trignometry earlier in this section for details on this), and scale this by the distance. Two databases useful for this purpose are the Yale Bright Star catalog (sources listed in FAQ section 3) or "The Catalogue of Stars within 25 parsecs of the Sun" (in pub/SPACE/FAQ/stars.data and stars.doc on ames.arc.nasa.gov).
If you need just to change the wallpaper, then I've written a short program in VB that does this by using SystemParametersInfo-function. The bad news is that you need VBRUN200.DLL to run it, and the DLL is some 350kb (the program is about 7kb). The order of pictures depends on the system date and the number of BMP-files in the directory, so the picture remains the same if you execute the program multiple times during the same day and the number of BMPs has not changed. If you feel this is what you need then I could uuencode it and email it to you. (It is unavailable via ftp.)
So? Kratz was there - does that mean that he's a gang member? Even in the most gang-infested areas, most of the residents ARE NOT gang-members. How was it obvious? Were they not trying to hit the target? Or, does Kratz confuse "marksmanship" with "trying to simulate a post"? If so, that excludes self-defense shooting, but the rest of us understand that that exclusion would be an error. (It excludes a lot of legit "gun games" as well.) Sounds like practical pistol or maybe IPSC. It also sounds like how a self-defense shooter might well practice. The only things that action excludes are hunting and "like a post" shooting. Kratz should get out more often. -andy
I've had PRK. I would suggest asking a doctor about contacts. Mine said yes to contacts. I think the scars from RK would preclude contacts. No. RK makes radial cuts around the circumference of the cornea, up to 8 I think, and these change the curvature of the cornea through stress chages. PRK vaporizes (burns) away a thin layer from the front of the cornea making the optical axis of the eye shorter. The laser doesn't cut in PRK, it vaporizes. In RK, the eye is cut into. I find my vision is more clear for some things, and less clear for others, only at night. I notice a definite haloing at night in the darkness when I look at automobile headlamps, though this is not something I spend inordinate amounts of time doing. For ordinary things, my vision, in particular having a fully-operating peripheral vision, is clearer than with glasses, or contacts.
You can't be serious! I and many of my colleagues have not received any bad e-mails from Roger, in fact, Roger happens to have answered most if not all of my hockey questions and curiosities, so before you start flaming at me or Roger, better re-consider your nasty attitude towards Roger and the like!
If I have a habit that I really want to break, and I am willing to make whatever sacrifice I need to make to break it, then I do so. There have been bad habits of mine that I've decided to put forth the effort to break, and I've done so; there have been other bad habits that I've decided are not worth the effort to break. It's my choice, either way. I am my own master. I choose what I want to do. I weigh the benefits of my actions against their consequences, and I use my experience to help me deal with the unexpected, which in turn make me more experienced. I don't always succeed, but I never fail, either -- I learn. Do *you* have any habits you can't break? Why not? I have arrived at my own understanding of Christianity, just as you've probably arrived at your own understanding of Islam that is most likely very different from the way a Moslem thinks of his religion. Are you "unable to master your lack of desire to understand even the slightest concept of the Quran"? If that's different, then how is it different from what you accuse me of? Can I accuse you of having no desire to understand even the slightest concept of atheism? Of COURSE not. That's disgusting. For centuries, religions have been discriminating on sex and treating women as second-class humans; that's one of the reasons I renounced my Christianity. No. I don't insult people. Period. It's not in my nature, and it's not something that I want to do, either. Not yet -- but my life is the ground I use to practice on. The fun is in the getting there! We don't start out perfect; we've got to strive to be something better. I know my shortcomings, and I know my strengths, and I live my life according to the decisions I make, and I am content to abide with the consequences of my decisions as easily as I'll accept the praise for them. There have been times in my life when I've made mistakes, yes; I try to never make the same mistake twice. I regard Christ as a myth. I feel that there are far too many people offering far too many interpretations of what he supposedly said and did. The only person who can really judge me is *me*. I choose the roads I travel, and I decide whether or not I want to reach the end of any given road or turn back -- and as long as I don't *always* turn back, there's no shame in it. When I need help, I seek out my friends. And you don't have a clue about what I'm saying, either. Open your eyes and SEE; open your ears and LISTEN. I'm not just spouting off empty words. This is my LIFE, this is what gives me MEANING. Huh? You're going WAY off the track here. I say my mother loves me. How do I know, you ask? I can point to definite things she's done for me, and I can even just bring her to you so you can ask her, face-to-face. You say your deity loves you. How do you know, I ask? You can't even convince me that it exists! If any god dangles 'heaven' before me like a carrot, promising untold pleasures to me if I'll only suspend my disbelief and ignore my rationality for just this once, then I would choose 'hell'. I can *not* lie to myself to placate another being, no matter how powerful it is. Note also that there are several gods trying to lure me this way: Yahweh, Allah, Zeus, Odin, Ra... Please give me a solid reason to choose one of them over the others. [ description of Kendigism deleted -- hee hee! ] That paragraph demonstrates that you haven't listened to a single word I've said. Have you ever gone to an amusement park? Why? I mean, after a few hours, it closes, and nothing's different except that you're a few dollars lighter. Going to the amusement park doesn't do you any good at all. Why do you do such a meaningless thing? The answer is that you think it's fun. You play the skee-ball over and over because you'd like to get better at it, even though you're not going to win anything better than a stuffed animal even if you blow ten dollars on it. You ride the roller coaster because it's an thrilling experience, even though (because?) it scares the dickens out of you. In the same way, I think life is fun. And I don't intend to leave the amusement park of life until they close down for the night! :-D So you (and your holy book) say. By the same token, therefore, Santa Claus delivers toys every xmas. Don't you see? I have NO REASON to believe that what you say is true. Please give me some reason that I can't similarly apply to Santa Claus. I can't do it, because your existence means nothing more to me than just your communications over the net. You have no more bearing on nor importance in my life than that; remove it, and you will cease to be significant to me. Are you thereby inferring that your deity is nothing more than a collection of verses in a book, and cannot be supported without invoking them? Or do you mean that the existence of your deity (and, in fact, any other deity that can be written about) is as real as your own existence? Why do you believe what you believe?
At one time there was speculation that the first spacewalk (Alexei Leonov ?) was a staged fake. Has any evidence to support or contradict this claim emerged ? Was this claim perhaps another fevered Cold War hallucination ?
[This belongs in comp.windows.x.i386unix - I've redirected followups] I know for a fact that the EISA version of the Orchid ProDesigner IIS works. However, an EISA SVGA card is likely a waste of money. When XFree86 2.0 comes out, with support for accelerated chipsets, ISA, EISA, and VLB will all be supported. The more important question is "what chipsets are supported?". The bus is basically irrelevent as a compatibility issue. -- David Wexelblat <dwex@mtgzfs3.att.com> (908) 957-5871 Fax: (908) 957-5627 AT&T Bell Laboratories, 200 Laurel Ave - 3F-428, Middletown, NJ 07748 XFree86 requests should be addressed to <xfree86@physics.su.oz.au>
Perhaps 1%, but most likely not more than 2%. A new study (discrediting Kinsey) says so.
Enemy? Sounds like that's the viewpoint of the stereotypical rednecked conservative -- 'always been commies, always will be.' I suggest you listen very carefully to the stuff Yeltsin and his people are saying and compare that with the very anti-West slogans coming from his opponents in the Russian congress. I sure know who I want to back. Oh, BTW, Germany has sure come back as a terrible enemy after WWII, hasn't it? Better to let them degenerate into civil war? Remember all those nuclear weapons in Russia. I cannot imagine that they would not be used in a civil war. If nationialists take over and, even if they prevent a civil war, most feel they must take back large parts of land that are in other countries (like Ukraine.) I also cannot imagine Ukraine giving up land without a fight, possibly nuclear. How does this affect us? Well, we are on the same planet and if vast tracks of Europe are blown away I think we'd feel something. A massive breakup of a country that spans 1/6th the planet is bound to have affects here. (Of course, there is also the humanitarian argument that democracies should help other democracies (or struggling democracies).) Seriously. Everyone has different opinions on what is stupid. My two "causes" are aid to Russia and a strong space program. Someone else will champion welfare or education or doing studies of drunken goldfish. That is why we have a republic and not a true democracy. Instead of gridlock on a massive scale, we only have gridlock on a congressional scale. BTW, who is to decide 'stupid?' This is just like those who want to impose their 'morals' on others -- just the sort of thing I thought Libertarians were against. Actually, my politics are pretty Libertarian except on this one issue and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. It seems that Libertarians want to withdraw from the rest of the world and let it sink or swim. We could do that 100 years ago but not now. Like it or not we are in the beginnings of a global economy and global decision making.
Does anyone know where I can ftp or somehow else acquire the latest video drivers /fonts for an ATI SVGA adapter? The only floppy I have is for Windows 3.0. Does anyone know if ATI is still in business? Thanks!
>> >> Environment: >> mach/arch : sparc/sun4 (IPX) >> OS : SunOS 4.1.3 >> X11 : X11R5 (patchlevel 22) >> Motif : 1.2.2 >> >> I bring up X server using 'startx' and /usr/bin/X11/Xsun. The following sequence >> of actions crashes the X server (SIGPIPE, errno=32, 'xinit' reports that connexion >> to X server lost): > >I had this problem as well - It had to do with the CG6 graphics card that >comes with the IPX. What fixed the problem for me was to apply the "sunGX.uu" >that was part of Patch #7. Patch #1 also used this file so perhaps you >didn't apply the one that came with Patch #7. > >jeff >- >Jeff W. Boote <boote@ncar.ucar.edu> ********************************* >Scientific Computing Division * There is nothing good or bad * >National Center for Atmospheric Research * but thinking makes it so. * >Boulder * Hamlet * > ********************************* Thanx, Jeff. You're a lifesaver. I imported the new sun GX emulator that came in with patch #7. The problem has since disappeared. Thanx to der (schoene) Mouse for his help too.
Contact: WATCHMAN FELLOWSHIP P.O. Box 171194 Holladay, UT 84117-1194
IMO, a Christian has no need of weapons. I know it is very contrary to the American NRA ethos of the right to bear arms, but Christians should rely on the strength of God to protect them. Note that I say *should*. We are inherently insecure but I feel that that is not proper justification to be armed to the teeth. A Christian should not have to rely on physical weapons to defend himself. A Christian should rely on his faith and intelligence. For instance, I have the faith that God will protect me but God also gave me the intelligence to know not to go walking down that dark alley at night. To jump off a cliff and say that God will save me would be putting God to the test. And who are we to test God? God be with you,
newly the pixel is You could set up a bitmap with a mask in it. Clear the bitmap, draw the rectangle to be deleted with GXor. Draw the one that is to stay with GXclear. Then GXxor the entire pixmap with the screen. Note that this is a pretty effective way of animation, if you ever need to do that (replace the GXclear with a GXxor). ---------- Joe Hildebrand hildjj@fuentez.com Software Engineer Fuentez Systems Concepts (703)273-1447
Too right it does! The --VERY VERY FIRST-- thing you do is make sure that --ALL-- files on the floppies that you can currently read in the drive, which aren't already on your HD or another floppy (if you have -two- floppy drives) get copied to your HD (and/or to a floppy in your other drive). If you don't do this before fixing the alignment problem you have kissd those files goodbye. (Well, you can -try- to re-misalign the drive back to read your floppies, but don't count on be able to do so!) Generally, head alignment is something I'd only trust to a good repair shop (though there are/have been DIY guides).
]The "corrupted over and over" theory is pretty weak. Comparison of the ]current hebrew text with old versions and translations shows that the text ]has in fact changed very little over a space of some two millennia. This ]shouldn't be all that suprising; people who believe in a text in this manner ]are likely to makes some pains to make good copies. Tell it to King James, mate. ]C. Wingate + "The peace of God, it is no peace, ] + but strife closed in the sod. ]mangoe@cs.umd.edu + Yet, brothers, pray for but one thing: ]tove!mangoe + the marv'lous peace of God."
Hi there netters, I have a question I would very much like to see some discussion on: Is there such a thing as a 'justifible' war? What I would love to see it some basis from scripture for either: "All war is wrong", or "Some war is justifiable". To get things started I would like to outline why I am asking the question. In my high school days I had been quite involved in the the New Zealand Cadet Forces (This is a bit like ROTC from what I understand of it, but with a lot more emphasis on fun than military career training). Through this I became extremely enamoured of flying, have become involved in the sport of gliding, and have a great interest in military aviation hardware as the very best a 'real' flyer could ask for. My favourite computer games are the accurate simulations of military aircraft, both past and present. I became a Christian about 10 years ago, and at the time rejected all military activity as immoral. For me, all war was in complete opposition to God's commandments to love one another, especially one's enemies. During the war in Iraq, I found myself with great excitement listening to the reports of the effectiveness of the the attacks using the aviation technology I so admire - The F117A 'Stealh' bomber, the F14, F15 and F16 strike aircraft, etc. After the war concluded I began to really enjoy simulations based around this conflict - Great to go and bomb Saddam's bio-weapons plants in an F117A on my computer, or shoot down some of his Mig's in an F16. The simulation of the death of people was a wonderful game. I imagine the real pilots view the real thing in much the same way. One only has to look at the language used to see that the personal impact of war is ignored: A building containing people, or an aircraft flown by a pilot is simply a 'target'. Dead civilians are 'collateral damage'. These euphanisms are a way of removing the reality of war from the people whose support are necessary for the continued waging of war - One only has to look at Vietnam to see how important public opinion is. Now we see troops sponsored by the United Nations entering Somalia, and the prospect of military intervention in the Muslim/Croat/Serb conflict in the former Yugoslavia. My revulsion in particular to the siege of Sarajevo, and in the last few days of (sorry 'bout spelling) Sebrenitsa, has caused me to rethink where I stand on 'justifiable' war. I will list several wars in the last 50 years I can look at each, and say - Yes this may have been justifible, this may not. These are simply my gut reactions to each - In many cases with the benefit of the impartiality history brings. Let me go through a few and state some of my reasons for my reaction - I am not a historian, so excuse any historical blunders, I am working from popular history as it is known in New Zealand. 1. The Second World War - Murder of Jews - Hitler had to be stopped. - Massive civilian casualties on both sides - Dresden, Hiroshima/Nagasaki - Probably justifiable. 2. Korean war - Political expansionism by North Korea, basically communism vs. capitalism. - Probably not justifiable. 3. Vietnam - As above, worsened by US involvement. 4. Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia. - Genocide by Khmer Rouge. - Probably justifiable. 5. Iraq (Desert Storm) - Political expansionism, threat to world oil supply - Other factors such as genocide. - Not sure, but probably justifiable 6. A future involvement in Bosnia - Genocide - so called 'Ethnic Cleansing' - Emotive - much TV coverage of atrocities and civilian casualties. - Probably justifiable 7. Possible future use of nuclear weapons - tactical or strategic, somewhere in the world by the US in response to someone else - e.g. Libya or Israel. - My feelings in this are simple - Nuclear war/weapons are abhorrent - I love the New Zealand government's stand on banning all nuclear armed or powered warships from NZ port. - Never justifiable. These are my own views, I have looked at scripture, and I am confused. I would appreciate others view, particularly those based on scripture. I *don't* want a - Naaahh, yer wrong - I think answers 8-). Thanks for your help. ========================================================================== | Alastair Thomson, | Phone +64-3-479-8347 Chief Programmer, | Fax +64-3-479-8529 The Black Albatross Porject, | University of Otago, | Department of Computer Science, | e-mail alastair@farli.otago.ac.nz P.O. Box 56 | athomson@otago.ac.nz Dunedin | NeXTmail Welcome New Zealand | "God loved the world so much, that he gave us His Son, to die in our place, so that we may have eternal life" John 3:16, paraphrase
I know someone had long talks about Solar Sails early this year and late last year..Also about Solar Sailing. Not sure who captured it if possible.. I think it was one of the regulars who had most or all the data? I think I started the latest round or the late last year round.. But the topic has been around here, off and on for a year or two..
Here's a simple way to convert the Clipper proposal to an unexceptionable one: Make it voluntary. That is--you get high quality secure NSA classified technology if you agree to escrow your key. Otherwise you are on your own. That's the disturbing part - use of other products IS voluntary, for now, and the press releases talk about the White House's unwillingness to decide that citizens have a right to good commercial crypto gear, and about how commercial alternatives will be permitted as long as they provide key escrow services. That's a clear implication that they're considering banning alternatives. Additionally, use of real alternatives ISN'T totally legal - you're not allowed to export really good crypto equipment except to the government's friends (e.g. the Australian government) you can only export even BAD crypto equipment with their permission, and the regulators who control the cellular telephone companies make sure there are only two competitors, so Joe's Garage Cellular can't start offering a secure service.
How many runs will be scored in Denver? I don't know. but some idea can be gotten by looking at the runs scored in Mile High Stadium during the last few years of the Bears/Zephyrs tenure in the American Association. Here's the total runs scored per game in Zephyrs games, all league games and the ratio. I found the same ratios for HR. Year rpg lea ratio hrpg lea ratio 1992 10.22 9.10 1.12 1.65 1.58 1.04 1991 9.53 8.87 1.07 1.41 1.26 1.12 1990 10.71 8.72 1.23 1.49 1.24 1.20 1989 9.07 8.34 1.09 1.27 1.11 1.14 1988 9.90 8.37 1.18 1.29 1.08 1.19 1987 12.55 10.70 1.17 2.39 1.92 1.24 1986 9.45 9.33 1.01 1.35 1.38 .98 1985 9.50 8.54 1.11 1.53 1.34 1.14 1984 9.99 9.10 1.10 1.55 1.59 .97 1983 10.60 9.99 1.06 2.03 1.74 1.17 1982 11.29 10.35 1.09 2.24 1.91 1.17 1981 10.29 9.25 1.11 1.43 1.49 .96 1980 10.59 9.43 1.12 1.63 1.46 1.12 1446/13-->1.11 1444/13-->1.11 It seems pretty clear that Denver will have a large effect on runs scored (I'll stick with my prediction from last year that it'll be one of the top 3 in the NL this year) and a fairly large effect on Homeruns - though apparently not as large as Atlanta, Wrigley, Cincinnati and San Diego. Still it ought to be a pretty decent home run park.
/ iftccu:talk.politics.guns / vincent@cad.gatech.edu (Vincent Fox) / 10:34 am Apr 14, 1993 / This isn't rec.guns, so maybe this is getting a bet technical, but I can't resist.... Sometimes..... Depends on WHY it misfired.... I can't imagine doing much combat type shooting single action..... Assuming the cylinder WILL rotate.... Never hurts to err on the side of safety, but if you've got one of those 'new fangled' hammer blocks or transfer bar safeties, it's unnecessarily redundant. I'd rather have the extra round. Quite true. Speed loaders are a little less convenient to pack around than magazines though. True, but this is a training function. Cocked and locked for single actions or hammer down on double actions are the only carry modes that make sense... The 80 series Colt's for example are quite safe to carry this way. Agreed. Now that I've shot off my mouth a bit, let me back some of this up. It is true that a simple misfire on a revolver doesn't cost you much. On the other hand, I've had all sorts of interesting things happen over the years. For example, I've had FACTORY ammunition that has had high primers. A high primer will tie your revolver up somewhere from seconds to minutes while you try to pound the action open to clear the problem. An auto? Jack the slide and continue. I've had bullets come out of the case, keeping the cylinder from turning, see clearing paragraph above. About the WORST that can happen with a semi auto is a double feed. This can be cleared in seconds. Most revolvers are more 'fragile' then semi auto's. There are all sorts of close tolerance parts and fitting involved. Dropping the gun, or a blow to the gun or all sorts of things can take it out of action. Many of the problems that can be cured on the spot with a (quality) semi auto take a gun smith for a revolver. In short a revolver MAY be less likely to malfunction, but as a rule when it does, you're out of the fight. The majority of malfunctions that occur with semi autos does not fall into that category. Vincint makes many good points in this post, but leaves off the opposing view of most of them. A real good starting place is Ayoob's "The Semi Auto Pistol for Police and Self Defense." In general, I'd agree, the revolver is an excellent first gun and self defense weapon for somebody that does not have the time, and inclination that is necessary for the training and practice needed to use a semi auto effectively as a self defense arm. Most cops are notoriously indifferent to firearms. If the department isn't going to train them, they aren't going to take the time on their own. There is no doubt that training is an issue. The amount of training required for effective use of a semi auto is probably several times that of a revolver. Many cops don't bother. For myself, I'd hate to be limited to one or the other. I'd rather pick what fits better with my personal inclination, what I'm wearing that day and so on. Like the Moderator on rec.guns says, buy em all! That said, I have to admit that often my advice to people thinking of buying their first defense arm is (right after taking a class) get a Ruger or Smith revolver.... (Sorry Colt fans. Colt revolvers are ok too!) If this post had gone the other way, I'd be arguing for revolvers. :-)
Nice to think, but naive. The fact is that millions of people today are sending highly confidential information over unencoded, easy to receive cellular phones. They figure the chances of being heard are small, so they risk it. And 99.9% of people don't understand crypto the way the least of the sci.crypt newbies does. If Clinton tells them it's good crypto, they'll believe him, and send important stuff over it, and be thankful that they're no longer using clear-voice FM cellular phones. Only a tiny fraction of people will want more crypto. Worse, in the eyes of the government, which swears up and down the algorithim is spook-level secure (and it may indeed be) the only reason you could possibly want this extra level is to avoid police. By using it, you'll attract attention as a likely lawbreaker. "Your honour, the suspect suddenly started using another level of cryptography and we can't tap his phone calls any more. He must have something to hide. Please sign the warrant to search his house..."
Lets hear it for Dan Goldin...now if he can only convince the rest of our federal government that the space program is a worth while investment! I hope that I will live to see the day we walk on Mars, but we need to address the technical hurdles first! If there's sufficient interest, maybe we should consider starting a sci.space group devoted to the technical analysis of long-duration human spaceflight. Most of you regulars know that I'm interested in starting this analysis as soon as possible.
TO: saz@hook.corp.mot.com SZ>Does anybody know of a program that converts .GIF files to .BMP files SZ>and if so, where can I ftp it from? Any help would be greatly SZ>appreciated. Sure... A GREAT shareware program is Graphic Workshop (the newest version is 6.1). Although I don't know where you can ftp it from. It also converts to about 15 other formats, and does MANY other things. ....r.c V.t.ell. .r...
There is eye dominance same as handedness (and usually for the same side). It has nothing to do with refractive error, however. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Dr. willian Horatio Bates born 1860 and graduated from med school 1885. Medical career hampered by spells of total amnesia. Published in 1920, his great work "The Cure of Imperfect Eyesight by Treatment With- out Glasses", He made claims about how the eye actually works that are simply NOT TRUE. Aldous Huxley was one of the more "high profile" beleivers in his system. Mr. Huxley while giving a lecture on Bates system forgot the lecture that he was supposedely reading and had to put the paper right up to his eyes and then resorted to a magnifying glass from his pocket. book have been written debunking this technique, however they remain less read than the original fraud. cheers
(How is 0-40 twice 1.25? Do you just pick whatever SCSI setup that makes the statment "correct"?) Even if you could make such a statement it would be meaningless unless you understood that ESDI and IDE (I include SCSI and ATA) are completely different (ESDI is device-level, like MFM/RLL). Great, you can compare two numbers (ATA has several speed modes, by the way) but what the article said was misleading/wrong. I would recommend people call the NCR board and download the ANSI specs if they are really interested in this stuff. Something is missing there. :) Anyway, I agree. There's a lot of opportunity for marketing jingo like "SCSI-2 compliant" which tells you nothing about the performance, whether it has "WIDE" support, etc.
The same way that any theory is proven false. You examine the predicitions that the theory makes, and try to observe them. If you don't, or if you observe things that the theory predicts wouldn't happen, then you have some evidence against the theory. If the theory can't be modified to incorporate the new observations, then you say that it is false. For example, people used to believe that the earth had been created 10,000 years ago. But, as evidence showed that predictions from this theory were not true, it was abandoned.
. It's my understanding that the U.S. Supreme Court has never given a legal definition of religion. This despite the many cases involving religion that have come before the Court. Can anyone verify or falsify this? Has any state or other government tried to give a legal definition of religion?
I just about closed this once before. I'm now doing so for real, after tonight's posting.
I've recently got hold of a PC with an S3 card in it, and I'd like to do some C programming with it, are there any libraries out there that will let me access the high resolution modes available via Borland Turbo C?
Bingo. Nothing evil at all. There's no actual harm in what they're doing, only how they represent it. ----------------------------------------------------------------- .sig files are like strings ... every yo-yo's got one.
Here is an annoying problem. Whenever I save an icon which contains dark colors like dark red or dark purple, these colors are converted to the bright colors. This happens with every icon editor including the image editor that came with SDK. I don't have this problem with .BMP files either; only with .ICO files or icon libraries. The problem is with the icon colormap field in the icon file header. Checking the file with a binary editor, I can see that the masks are OK. By editing the colormap manually (copying from another icon that I didn't edit) I can fix the colors. Does anybody know what may be causing this problem? Thanks.
We are not at the end of the Space Age, but only at the end of Its beginning. That space exploration is no longer a driver for technical innovation, or a focus of American cultural attention is certainly debatable; however, technical developments in other quarters will always be examined for possible applications in the space area and we can look forward to many innovations that might enhance the capabilities and lower the cost of future space operations. The Dream is Alive and Well.
Do you recall which issue this was in? I posted a message related to this a while back to provoke an argument so that I could get the straight dope on this. This article would probably give me all the definitive answers that I want.
Yup. Then again, there are lots of foreign-born players on the Canadian national soccer team so the Brits give something back to you in the end:-) --- For the record, former NY Rangers coach Ted "Darth" Sator recently led Lion Milan (Jari Kurri's former team, only the nickname's changed [Devils->Lion]) to their second straight Italian championship. They made the European Final Four last autumn after losing to Swedish champs Malmo in the semis...and accomplished this feat using FIFTEEN Canadian-born players!! Mamma mia! MARCU$
...
30mg per day of propranolol is a homeopathic dose in migraine. If you got fatigued at that level, it is unlikely that you will tolerate enough beta blocker to help you. Probably a single nightime dose. We don't know how they work in migraine, but it probably has something to do with seratonin. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
OK, the Mets and O's are good examples, but what about the '90 Reds? Do you really think that anyone expected them to sweep the A's? I know people who didn't even think they'd win a game, let alone win the Series. We proved them wrong, though, didn't we? As for this year, ignore their record now. They've had a rocky start, and that has nothing to do with Colorado. They shall rise again. The hunt for a Reds' October continues. (with all due respect to WLW) Bye.
I'm looking for software (hopefully free and runs on Unix box) which will keep track of statistics for my company softball team (batting avg. etc.). If you know of any please post or respond to me by e-mail. Many thanks.
It's a fair stretch of anyone's imagination to expect them to attach any credibility to anything written in Time magazine in the past twenty years, I'd imagine. The Enquirer at least gets the names attached to the right body parts. =Mark --
[ a nearly perfect parody -- needed more random CAPS] Thanks for the chuckle. (I loved the bit about relevance to people starving in Somalia!) To those who've taken this seriously, READ THE NAME! (aloud)
While playing around with my Gateway 2000 local-bus machine last night, it became apparent that Windows 3.1 didn't give the option for 32-bit access for virtual memory. I am using a permanent swap file, and the disk drive is on the local bus interface. Is this expected, or should I be investigating further why no 32-bit option appears? Thanks for any help. --
[about the infield fly rule] Unless he's Deion Sanders, in which case he just heads back to the dugout and waits for his next base-running-blunder opportunity.
Whoops!! Wrong group. Soooooooooooooooorry folks..
Hi all News Group users: Does anyone know whether there is some software which will let one do Text to Speach like the Sound Blaster does? Hal Adam, HADAM@bcsc02.gov.bc.ca
It's not a cliche, and (unlike your comments below) it's not a tautology. It needn't have been true. If every pitcher in baseball were essentially the same in quality (i.e. if the variance of pitching ability were much smaller than the variance of batting ability), then scoring runs would be much more important than preventing them, simply because the *ability* to actively prevent runs would be much weaker. If that's your point, you should have said so. What you in fact said was "Pitching and defense win championships", and later "Pitching is the essence of baseball". Neither of which says what you are now claiming was "your point", and neither of which is true. And you accuse Sherri of mouthing cliches!? It's not clear to me at all that this is true. In high-scoring games, the team with the better offense wins a high percentage of the time. In low- scoring games, the split is essentially 50/50 regardless of team ability. I thought you said "pitching and defense win championships" and "pitching is the essence of baseball".
I'm looking for the address to join the Cleveland Sports Mailing List. If anyone knows it, I would be greatful if they could email a copy of it to me. If you are a member, just mail me one of the List's letters. I could probably figure it out from there. Thanks!
Does that imply that people who take marriage vows but aren't sincere are not married?
I wanted to know if any of you out there can recommend a good book about graphics, still and animated, and in VGA/SVGA. Thanks in advance
I watched him over his entire career. I have NEVER seen a player, and that includes Russell Courtnall and Davie Keon, screw up as many breakaways as Bob Gainey. And I will never forget the time Denis Potvin caught Gainey with his head down. You have been sold a bill of goods on Bob Gainey. Gainey was a plugger. And when the press runs out of things to say about the stars on dynasties they start to hype the pluggers. Grant Fuhr, Essa Tikkannen, Butch Goring, Bob Nystrom, Bob Gainey, Doug Jarvis, Derek Sanderson, Wayne Cashman, Bob Baun, Bob Pulford, Ralph Backstrom, Henri Richard, Dick Duff...and so on... cordially, as always, rm
Another issue of importance. Was the crucification the will of God or a tragic mistake. I believe it was a tragic mistake. God's will can never be accomplished through the disbelief of man. Jesus came to this world to build the kingdom of heaven on the earth. He desperately wanted the Jewish people to accept him as the Messiah. If the crucification was the will of God how could Jesus pray that this cup pass from him. Was this out of weakness. NEVER. Many men and women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes. Is Jesus less than these. No he is not. He knew the crucification was NOT the will of GOD. God's will was that the Jewish people accept Jesus as the Messiah and that the kingdom of Heaven be established on the earth with Jesus as it's head. (Just like the Jewish people expected). If this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what kind of world we would live in today. It would be a very different world. And that is eactly what GOD wanted. Men and women of that age could have been saved by following the living Messiah while he was on the earth. Jesus could have established a sinless lineage that would have continued his reign after his ascension to the spiritual world to live with GOD. Now the kingdom of heaven on the earth will have to wait for Christ's return. But when he returns will he be recognized and will he find faith on this earth. Isn't it about time for his return. It's been almost 2000 years. Mike And the two simplest refutations are these: (1) What impact? The only record of impact comes from the New Testament. I have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate, and that the recorded "impact" actually happened. I find it interesting that no other contemporary source records an eclipse, an earthquake, a temple curtain being torn, etc. The earliest written claim we have of Jesus' resurrection is from the Pauline epistles, none of which were written sooner than 20 years after the supposed event. (2) It seems probable that no one displayed the body of Jesus because no one knew where it was. I personally believe that the most likely explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples, or by graverobbers). Don't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one gospel, and seems like exactly the sort of thing early Christians might make up in order to counter the grave-robbing charge. The New Testament does record that Jews believed the body had been stolen. If there were really guards, they could not have effectively made this claim, as they did.
I thought Bill James' latest book completely and totally sucked. I bought it, but will not purchase anything of his ever again without THOROUGHLY looking at it first. What tripe. The book is inconsistent, and filled with selective analysis. James claims to be looking forward, and then makes some absolutely bizarre statements of value. Not only that, but I got the impression he probably glanced at the book for about an hour before he put his name on it. To say I was disappointed is a grand understatement.
brad@clarinet.com (Brad Templeton): }And yes, this has to be a public key system or it would be almost }impossible to handle. It might not be RSA, but that does not mean }that PKP doesn't get paid. Until 1997, PKP has the patent on the }general concept of public key encryption, as well as the particular }implementation known as RSA. Hmm, my first thought was that they're using Diffie-Hellman exponential session key exchange, or an equivalent. However, the Diffie-Hellman patent, like the Hellman-Merkle one on public key systems, claims all equivalents, so the basic point stands. Interestingly, a quote from Jim Bidzos showed up in the media real soon after the announcement, and he sounded very pissed. Maybe he hadn't yet realized that PKP might have just struck gold? All they have to do is get someone to admit the general scheme that the Clipper uses. --- Jef
Well, the Red Sox have apparenly resigned Herm Winningham to a AAA contract. Ted "Larry" Simmons signed him to a AAA contract then released him from Buffalo, allowing Lou "Curly" Gorman to circumvent the rule about not resigning free agents until May 1. Clearly, neither of these guys is bright enough to be Moe. Mike Jones | AIX High-End Development | mjones@donald.aix.kingston.ibm.com
I'm looking into getting an external, reasonably fast (<350 ms avg access time) Multispin CD-ROM drive that supports "Photo CD Multi Session", has audio output, and SCSI interface for connection to the PAS16 SCSI port. Does anyone have any comments/experiences/warnings/recommendations they'd like to share concerning the Texel DM-5024 and/or Toshiba TXM-3401E and/or others. THANKS!
I would be happy to discuss the issue of the 12 Imams with you, although my preference would be to move the discussion to another newsgroup. I feel a philosophy or religion group would be more appropriate. The topic is deeply embedded in the world view of Islam and the esoteric teachings of the Prophet (S.A.). Heresy does not enter into it at all except for those who see Islam only as an exoteric religion that is only nominally (if at all) concerned with the metaphysical substance of man's being and nature. A good introductory book (in fact one of the best introductory books to Islam in general) is Murtaza Mutahhari's "Fundamental's of Islamic Thought - God, Man, and the Universe" - Mizan Press, translated by R. Campbell. Truly a beautiful book. A follow-up book (if you can find a decent translation) is "Wilaya - The Station of the Master" by the same author. I think it also goes under the title of "Master and Mastership" - It's a very small book - really just a transcription of a lecture by the author. The introduction to the beautiful "Psalms of Islam" - translated by William C. Chittick (available through Muhammadi Trust of Great Britain) is also an excellent introduction to the subject. We have these books in our University library - I imagine any well stocked University library will have them. From your posts, you seem fairly well versed in Sunni thought. You should seek to know Shi'ite thought through knowledgeable Shi'ite authors as well - at least that much respect is due before the charge of heresy is levelled.
The New York talk shows are just awful in this regard. People are constantly calling WFAN and WABC with (stuff like) "I was thinking, why don't the Yankees trade Kaminicki and Silvestri to Seattle for Ken Griffey Jr and Randy Johnson, that would really help the team" or "Do you think the Yankees can get Roger Clemens?". The show hosts are pretty good about handling these guys, but it's still annoying. The best one was at the end of one show, a caller started out with "I was thinking, why don't the Yankees trade for..." and then the host hung up on him. I cheered!
[...] [From Mike Godwin <mnemonic@eff.org>, posted with permission - Carl] Sadly, it does not. Suspects can be compelled to give handwriting and voice exemplars, and to take blood and DNA tests. No, but they could compell you to produce the key to a safe where, as it happens, evidence that will convict you is stored. The crypto-key disclosure issue hasn't come up yet, but current law suggests that it's a loser for the defendant--he'll be compelled to turn over the key. The test for compelled self-incrimination is whether the material to be disclosed *in itself* tends to inculpate the discloser. In the example I gave above, the safe key itself has no testimonial value--ergo, it can be disclosed under compulsion (e.g., subpoena duces tecum). Moreover, the government can always immunize the disclosure of a crypto key--compelling you to disclose the key at the price of not using the fact of your disclosure as evidence in the case against you. Of course, they can use whatever they discover as a result of this disclosure against you. --Mike
I am in charge of purchasing some computer software for a small office and I have a few question about Microsoft's Office Pack. 1) I was wondering, are the programs that are packaged with the Office Pack--WinWord, Power Point, Excel, and ccMail--complete and the latest addition? 2) Are the programs "hobbled" in any way? 3) Can we update single programs at a latter date ( i.e. from Excel 4.0 to Excel 5) ? 4) Do you receive all of the necessary disks and documentation? 5) Is there anything that I should be aware of that makes the Office Package less of deal that it seems? Sorry if I seem skeptical put the price for the Office Package--$439.39 on the street--sounds like a great deal for the office that is purchasing its first computer and software. But all four complete programs for less than $450 makes me just a little suspicious. Maybe its just me. Thanks for your help in advance Kirt Wilson Northwestern University -------------------------------
I have been to all 3 Isles/Caps tilts at the Crap Centre this year, all Isles wins and there is no justification for Vukota and Pilon to play for the Isles. Vukota is absolutely the worst puck handler in the world!! He couldn't hit a bull in the ass with a banjo!! Al must remember a few years back when Mick scored 3 goals in one period against the Caps in a 5-3 Isles win. I was there and was astonished as was the rest of the crowd. Wake-up Al!!! Years later he's gotten worse. He's a cheap shot artist and always ends up getting stupid/senseless penalties. I think he would make a good police officier!!! As for Pilon, he can't carry the puck out to center ice by himself. He either makes a bad pass resulting in a turnover, or he attempts to bring the puck towards the neutral zone and skates right into an opposing skater. He can't stay on his skates with most forwards or centers. He either falls down or committs a penalty. Call up somebody from Capital District AL!!!!! As far as the playoffs, the Isles are as difficult to figure out as the Caps. Two good teams with talent but so inconsistent. They should meet in the first round. The Isles seem to play up to the level of their competition so they should play well against Jersey tonite. It'll probably be another tight 1-goal game as the last 20 games hve been for the Isles. I wish when the get a lead they could continue to pour it on instead of settling back into a defensive shell and letting the opposition get back in the game. Al MUST understand he can't do with this team what he did with the 80-83 Isles. maybe Al should got to. Where is Bobby Nystrom?? Clark Gilles?? John Tonelli?? These are the kind of young minds we need behing the bench!! FIRE AL!!!! John Scialdone SCIALDONE@NSSDCA.GSFC.NASA.GOV
Just had the opportunity to watch this flick on A&E -- some 15 years since I saw it last. I was very interested in the technology demonstrated in this film for handling infectious diseases (and similar toxic substances). Clearly they "faked" a lot of the computer & robotic technology; certainly at the time it was made most of that was science fiction itself, let alone the idea of a "space germ". Quite coincidentally [actually this is what got me wanted to see the movie again] I watched a segment on the otherwise awful _How'd They Do That?_ dealing with a disease researcher at the CDC's top lab. There was description of the elaborate security measures taken so that building will never be "cracked" so to speak by man or nature (short of deliberate bombing from the air, perhaps). And the researchers used "spacesuits" similar to that in the film. I'm curious what people think about this film -- short of "silly". Is such a facility technically feasible today? As far as the plot, and the crystalline structure that is not Life As We Know It, that's a whole 'nother argument for rec.arts.sf.tech or something.
----- News saved at 23 Apr 93 22:22:40 GMT Well, I'm working on it, but getting a little impatient. So far, I've made it through Egyptian, Chinese, and Greek cultures, and up through the Rennaisance. But so far, these insights just don't seem to be gelling. Perhaps it's in an appendix somewhere.
For those of you interested, I just finished talking with a representative of Senator Bob Krueger's reelection campaign about his position on the RTKBA. Krueger was appointed by the Democratic Governor of Texas to complete Lloyd Bentsen's unexpired term. The representative said that Senator Krueger did not have a position and would only comment on specific legislation that was pending. No comment was available on the various versions of the Brady Bill.
[More stuff deleted] This seems to be a pretty arogant definition of belief. My beliefs are those things which I find to be true based on my experience of the world. This experience includes study of things that I may not have experienced directly. But even then, I can only understand the studies to the extent to which I can relate what I study back to what I have experienced. Which means that by beliefs about God are directly related to my experience of God. Having experienced God, I try to make sense of that experience. I study religion and read the Bible. I find things that echo what I have already experienced. Out of this I build my beliefs. I also find things that don't match my experience. That doesn't make them false. They just don't match my experience. Maybe I will understand that stuff later. I don't know. Maybe all of my beliefs are wrong. I can change my beliefs. If someone else has beliefs that are different from mine, so what. Neither of us are necessarily wrong. Someone else is making sense out of a different set of experiences. Even though we have different explanations and beliefs, if we talk we might even discover that the underlying experiences are similar. Some people approach religion as a truth that can only exist in one form, and usually has a single revelation. The more dogmatic and inflexible the belief system, the more arrogant it will appear to an outsider. There is another approach possible, however. God is a mystery. I am trying to solve the mystery, so I look at the evidence available to me. I try to arrive at the best understanding that I can based on the evidence. New evidence may cause me to change my understanding. When I encounter someone with a different belief than my own, it isn't a threat, it is an opportunity to perhaps discover something new about this mystery I can never fully comprehend. Peace Will Taber ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cite one of these conflicting statutes. You keep making these assertions, but you haven't supported any of them yet. I am speaking of statutes that conflict with the definition Larry posted. Why did you delete the code that Larry posted? Also, the Model Penal Code made perfect sense to me. Were you, perhaps, confused by it? Also, I am still looking for your definition. The one you used clearly indicates that a fetus is not a human being. Circular arguments are usually very consistent. Again, your desire for consistency disappears when it does not suit your needs. The principle of protecting life is abandoned based on "action versus inaction." Not much of a principle. Suddenly you recognize that the claim on bodily resources is dependent on circumstances other than this principle of life. That's a very conevnient principle you have there, Matt.
[...] I struggled with the margin problem for ages as well, until I finally got hold of the shareware binary editor BEAV133, and dug into NOTEPAD.EXE (there is no SETUP facility to force NOTEPAD to default to 0.0 margins- it's hardwired into code!!!). Do a SEARCH for ".75", then change the offending bytes to ".00", et viola. Who are the guys who hardcode these "options" anyway? I'm interested in whether the problem only rears it's ugly head for certain printers- I'm using an old Epson LX-800 (or is that EX-800? never can remember).
I have discussed this with my girlfriend often. I consider myself married, though legally I am not. Neither of us have been with other people sexually, although we have been with each other. We did not have sexual relations until we decided to marry eventually. For financial and distance reasons, we will not be legally married for another year and a half. Until then, I consider myself married for life in God's eyes. I have faith that we have a strong relationship, and have had for over 4 years, and will be full of joy when we marry in a church. First, however, we must find a church( we will be living in a new area when we marry, and will need to find a new church community). Anyway, I feel that if two people commit to marriage before God, they are married and are bound by that commitment.
i did a workshop on this for an episcopalian student gathering a couple months ago because i wanted to know the answer too. as far as i could tell, although that story was never specifically _told_ in the bible, many references are made to it, primarily in the new testament. in the old testament there is actually an entirely different view of satan as a (excuse the pun) "devil's advocate" for yahweh. see the book of job. getting back to the fallen angel story, there are _no_ references to "lucifer" in the bible except for a mistranslation of "the morning star" in the king james version (isaiah 14:12), which probably referred to a babylonian monarch much in the same was as "the sun king" referred to louis xiv. all in all, i don't know where the story _came from_; it may have been rolling around for a long time, or milton (_paradise lost_) may have invented it. sorry for the sketchiness of the rest of this, but i am in a hurry and need to eat lunch! feel free to email me about the other stuff i found out.... (although a lot of it is just the result of a bible concordance program called "quickverse" -- it's really lousy, by the way -- don't buy it.)
I do read Av Week and don't remember this. Could you supply the date of the magazine? As for C-17 vs. C-5 , the C-17 can't carry as much but has more capability ( read : can land at smaller airfields of which there are more of ) than the C-5. Now is the C-17 pork? It depends on whether your job relies on it or not. :) In California right now, I would say that it is not pork since due to peace dividend so many people are out of work. Huh? Shouldn't that read "The question is whether a social-pork happy Les Aspin and Clinton will be able to face down a jobs-pork happy Congress."
As usual, you are missing the whole point, Russell, because you are not willing to even consider questionning your basic article of faith, which is that science is merely a matter of methodology and that the highest purpose of science is to avoid making mistakes. This is like saying that the most important aspect of business management is accurate bookkeeping. If science were no more than methodology and not making mistakes, it would be a poor thing indeed. What was the methodology of Darwin? What was the methodology of Einstein? What was, for that matter, the methodology of Jenner and Pasteur? First of all, I think you are arguing against a straw man, because I don't think that anyone here is arguing that quackery, pseudo-science, homeopathy, chiropracty, and traditional Chinese medicine should be accepted as science. I, in particular, think the basic ideas of homeopathy and chiropracty seem extremely flaky. What some of us do believe, however, is that some of these things (including some of the flaky ideas) are deserving of serious scientific attention. If in fact it were true, as you have stated above, that those who do not use the currently fashionable methodology can have no idea what is effective and what is not, then science today would not exist. For all of current science is based on the past work of scientists whose methodology, by current standards, was seriously flawed. It is certainly true that as methodology improves, we need to re-examine those results derived in the past using less perfect methodologies. It is also true that the results obtained by people today who still rely on those early methodologies needs to be re-examined in a more rigorous fashion by those qualified to do so credibly. But to say that nobody who fails to do elaborate double-blind studies is capable of knowing their ass from a hole in the ground and to say that no ideas that come from outside the scientific establishment could possibly be worthy of serious investigation ... this truly marks one's attitude as doctrinaire, cultist. This attitude is not compatible with a belief in reason. -- In the arguments between behaviorists and cognitivists, psychology seems less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects.
: >NEWSPAPER AD CENSORSHIP : > : >San Fran. Independent San Fran. Examiner San Jose Mercury News : >1201 Evans Ave 110 5th St. 750 Ridder Park Dr. : >San Fran., CA 94124 San Fran., CA 94103 San Jose, CA 95190 : Hmmm, the SJ Merc. carries Targemasters West, National Shooting club, Reeds sportshop, Sportsmens supply and Big 5 ads. They all sell guns. No they don't have any adds like in Shotgun news. If they won't at least run the current adds I swear I'll cancel my subscription and end to cash to the CRPA.
You're supposed to delete everything above the "cut here" mark, and below the lower cut here mark, and uudecode it. but *I was not able to: unexpected end of file encountered at the last line. could you please re-post it, or tell be what I'm doing wrong? thanks,i.a., Mickey
I was not discussing "universal" definitions in this post, Mark. Please refrain from dragging in irrelevancies. Do you agree with my statement above about physicians being unqualified if they can't determine viability? And that's good enough for the law, Mark. So why do you keep whining that viability "isn't defined"? What purpose does your whining serve?
I haven't seen enough Royals' games to judge his tactics, so you may have a point here. But: IMO, the Royals don't have a chance to win the pennant even if McRae suddenly began channeling for John McGraw. OK, they have some decent pitchers. But when your offense consists of bums like Gagne and Lind and McReynolds and McRae and an over-the-hill Brett, you're not going to finish .500 unless McGraw brings Christy Mathewson back with him. I'd say it is hard to evaluate a manager when all of his hitters suck.
I'm in Edmonton, and while that's usually (or at least OFTEN) the case, here we were "treated" to the actual ABC telecast of the Kings/Flames game. I'm with whoever said it earlier - Don Witless (er, Whitman) is a poor commentator, and not just for hockey. Normally, if the Oilers were still playing (augh), I would turn off the sound and listen to the radio broadcast to get decent play-by-play announcing.
: I am looking for a package that implements standard : image processing functions (reading/writing from : standard formats), clipping, zoom, etc. implemented : under X. Both public domain and private packages : are of interest. The particular application area I : have in mind is medical imaging, but a package meant : for a more general context would be acceptable. : Please reply to me; I will summarize on the net if : there is general interest. : - prateek mishra : mishra@sbcs.sunysb.edu
I don't think anyone really cares about the solid structure of his sermon. It's the deaths he's responsible for that concern most people. You've made me curious. What does this say about me? Charles Manson used revelation as well. Do we see a pattern here? I wonder of Koresh liked the Beatles? [long list of Biblical references which impressed me tremendously but were deleted in the interests of common sense.] Koresh was a nut, okay? Just because he found ways for the Bible to backup his rantings does not make him any less of a kook. I'll type this very slowly so that you can understand. He either set the fire himself or told his followers to do so. Don't make him out to be a martyr. He did not "get killed", he killed himself. The evil was inside the compound. All that "thou shalt not kill" stuff.
Hi, I have a friend who is working on 2-d and 3-d object recognition. He is looking for references describing algorithms on the following subject areas: Thresholding Edge Segmentation Marr-Hildreth Sobel Operator Chain Codes Thinning - Skeletonising If anybody is willing to post an algorithm that they have implemented which demonstrates any of the above topics, it would be much appreciated. Please post all replies to my e-mail address. If requested I will post a summary to the newsgroup in a couple of weeks. Thanks in advance for all replies
False dichotomy. You claimed the killing were *not* religiously motivated, and I'm saying that's wrong. I'm not saying that each and every killing is religiously motivate, as I spelled out in detail. Does anyone else see the contradiction in this paragraph? Sorry, Frank, but what I put in quotes is your own words from your posting <1qi83b$ec4@horus.ap.mchp.sni.de>. Don't tell us now that it's a different claim. If you can no longer stand behind your original claim, just say so.
I know this is probably a FAQ, but... I installed the s/w for my ATI graphics card, and it bashed my Windows logo files. When I start Windows now, it has the 3.0 logo instead of the 3.1 logo. I thought the files that controlled this were \WINDOWS\SYSTEM\VGALOGO.RLE \WINDOWS\SYSTEM\VGALOGO.LGO I restored these files, but it didn't change the logo. Anyone know what the correct files are? Thanks.
> Well, the two nifty letters giving concrete proof that the >Income Tax is voluntary and giving specific procedures for stopping >withholding, et cetera have been out there for a while now. > There has been no refutation to date. Have the nay-sayers >finally given up as defeated? Sure would like to hear there reasons >for disbelief at this point. Probably because you have yet to respond to the refutation I've posted. Teel, it's bad enough you post this bs, it's even worse that you don't even try to defend it when it gets torn to pieces, but then posting that no one's looked at it and gloating when all facts point to the contrary point to a severely deluded mind. What I found interesting about Conklin's letter is the 6 cases he has won against the IRS. Now, assuming that these cases really exist and were one by him (anyone checked?) they may have nothing to do with his major tax claim. The IRS fought one of his deductions. Defending your deductions seems puny when you believe that there is no need to file in the first place!
I agree. God makes the husband the head of the house. But he surely can't do it alone. He needs the help of his beloved wife whom the Lord gave him. At least that's how it is in my house. I thank God for the beautiful woman He has brought into my life. I couldn't lead without the help of my wonderful wife.
The FAN is an okay Sports Radio station, but doesn't come close to the ULTIMATE in Sports Radio, 610 WIP in Philadelphia. The signal might not be as powerful, but then again only stations in New York feel "obligated" to pollute everyone else's airwaves with a bunch of hoodlum Mets fans complaining 24 hours a day. WIP took two of your best sports jockeys too, Jody MacDonald and Steve Fredericks. 610 WIP is rockin with sports talk from 5:30 AM till midnight, check it out anytime your within a few hours of Philadelphia. If I'm not mistaken, WIP has the highest sports talk ratings in the nation? -Rob
Article in this morning's Houston Post...."negotiators send food to rebellious inmates as humanitarian gesture"...speaking about the Ohio prison riot where they have killed at least one of the hostage guards. I know it's not the same "group" but the mindset appears to be common to "those what rule" here lately....they won't give diddley to the BD's in Waco but they treat criminals as deserving of "humanitarian gestures". This is but another indicator that the criminal caste seems to enjoy more priviliges in today's society than their victims or other law abiding citizens. What is it that makes the criminal so precious to the "leaders of the system"? Could it be that the criminal is one of the "tools" the "authorities" are using to "excuse" some of the rights negation they are trying to foist upon the law abiding citizen in the name of crime control....don't solve the crime problem because then the citizen couldn't be held hostage to "our help". If the crime problem were solved in favor of the citizen/victim at the expense of the criminal none of the crap such as RICO and gun banning could be used as excuses to work the agenda of those who would control our every move and thought. --- . OLX 2.2 . If I have to explain, you wouldn't understand.
IMHO, encryption is (also) protected under the SECOND amendment of the Constitution of the United States. I am not surprised that this administration is doing this. I could have told you so. Privacy has ALWAYS been something that has the effect of restricting out ability to prosecute criminals. We are supposed to have the presumption of innocence. I have the right to pull the curtains over my windows and close my door, and the police may not come in. If I perform a crim in my home, they will have to find out by means other than simply looking. Encryption is to my data as the window curtains are to my home. Simple enough? And yet the people vote for these people because they come out a lie to them about promising to fix things. You mean they might have to go back to actually WORKING to do their job? Oh heavens. Perhaps the FIRST amendment. Definitely the SECOND and FIFTH. Unfortunately, the vast segments of the population are misinformed. They just haven't appended -SR to the name of out country, yet. I seriously doubt that the NSA thinks that privacy and surveillance are compatible. I doubt of any smart person in any other agency thinks so, either. The PROBLEM is that they simply hold PRIVACY to be of no value at all.
I would doubt any civil rights case would be in order for the point that you mentioned. Even if it were possible, I think it is a bad idea since it smacks real strongly of double jeopardy. A civil case for damages is fine since that is a trial that would proceed regardless of the first. I think a bad precedent has already been set in the King trial in L.A. and something like this would make it worse. Regardless of how bad anybody feels about this decision, it must stand that charges of assault were not not proven against the three marines and that's how it should stand. Frank (who is still mad, but now somewhat sane) -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Frank R. Chloupek CHLOUPEK@ohstpy.mps.ohio-state.edu Department of Physics -- *The* Ohio State University (Not just any Ohio State University)
I think it is an ESDI controller if you need the doco i can help you. Stefan
: I have a 486DX-33 computer with a SoundBlaster 1.0 card. I'm running : Microsoft Windows v3.1. I have the SB driver set up properly to play : normal sounds (.WAV files, etc.). I want to play midi files through the : Media Player that is included with windows. I know I have to set up the : patch maps or something in the MIDI-Mapper in the Control Panel. I KNOW : NOTHING ABOUT MIDI. (This is to be the way I'll get my feet wet.) : How do I set up Windows so that I can play MIDI files? If you install the Soundblaster windows drivers correctly, and have the latest drivers, the media player should be setup to play files authored to Microsoft's Multimedia midi authoring standard (General Midi), see the section in the back of the Voyetra manual in the Soundblaster midi upgrade kit. You'll find that midi files exist with all kinds of different mappings, so don't expect them to always sound correct without using some kind of midi file editor, such as Voyetra's Sequencer Plus.
As a data point from Tennessee, a friend of mine and a police officer essentially recommends that if you can, fade away. Even if you were perfectly justified you're likely in for a great deal of hassle. (A side note, carrying a gun concealed is a misdemeanor.) It's one of those "by State" things, pretty much.
Golgotha the whole process of the fall of man This was precisely my point. From a theological bent, those who lived immediately after the flood, such as Noah, Ham, his son Cush, and his son Nimrod had a much stronger appreciation of Divine wrath. They also had a stronger understanding of the True God. In fact, this immediacy was a cause of hardship for some, so much so that Atlas, who is seen with heavens resting on his shoulders. But this is not merely the physical heavens that he is lifting. It is to put God and the strict spirituality of His law at a distance, and thus he became the "Elevator of the heavens." This "god" made men able to "feel" as if heaven were afar off and "as if either the God of Heaven could not see through the dark cloud, or did not regard with displeasure the breakers of His laws." It is interesting to see that it was that was titled "Emancipator" or "Deliverer" or Phoroneus. It was Nimrod who invaded the patriarchal system and abridged the liberties of mankind, yet was worship for having given many benefits. He was a deliverer all right but not as we think of Christ as a Deliverer. One delivered from a conscious feeling of God's wrath, the other actually performed a delivery from Gods wrath and it is up to us to accept it as true. I don't see the problem. From the time of Adam, those who looked forward to the coming "Anointed One" and put their faith in the fact that it was God who was to do the provision, were accounted as righteous. But up to the Crucifixion, their sins were only covered, not taken away. Therefore, the dispensation of the Church views the accountability of sin the same, but see it as a completed action. Rom's makes it clear that it has always been salvation via faith and nothing else. I understand what you're trying to convey, but I don't think I'd lay hold of it because the scriptures do equate the eternality of the second death with the eternality of, say the Church ruling with Christ. Jn 17 tells us what eternal life is exactly, as you are correct that it is much more than non-cessation of consciousness. It depends upon your def of "lost." The elect were lost only in time as outside of time they had been chosen from the foundation of the world. Existentially we were all born "lost", but the "righteous" were "in Christ" and therefore never *assuredly* lost. Maybe this summer I could find time to put together a paper on it. I simply have to buy more books for myself, and these older books are very expensive. Either that or countless trips to the oriental museum. Couldn't agree with you more. Our understanding, of say eschatology, is clearly clearer than that of, say Isaiah. But that is not what I was referring to. No, I understand it as you have said. This was my point. Ah! This is it. This is the big question. However, I would say, again I think, that the best lie is one that has an appreciable amount of truth to it. Look at Satan's twist of God's Word when he coerced Eve. That is a very interesting study. >The similarity in the midst of great variety of Yes, that is my point. But it is a two edged sword. For some do not want the underlying reality to be revealed. They were not known as "mystery" religions for no reason. There was the public side of them and there was the private side, that was so protected that the initiates to an oath of death if they revealed that private side. That is why it is so hard to bring their teachings to light. The "Mystery of Iniquity" that we find in the Bible, correlates to this I think. The primary object of the mysteries was to introduce privately, little by little, under the seal of secrecy and sanction of oath, what it would not have been safe to openly profess was the true religion. Case in point today might be the Masons. (Just a note, that they too worshipped Osiris in Egypt, who can be traced to Nimrod, the "husband son.") No, I disagree with you here Gerry. I know what you're alluding to in that the church, primarily the RCC, did endorse Aristotelian philosophy into their worldview, but I would disagree with you that it originated in Greece. If you are a student of history, you will come to see that much of what Greece came to expound to the world as their original, was just an adulteration of that which they had taken from conquered countries. The soul is clearly mentioned and discussed at length in the Egyptian religions. As was the unity of God and also the trinity of God. See if you can find Wilkinson's "Egyptians." He really does a number on what the Greeks did to what they "pilfered" from the Egyptians. I'm not knocking Aristotle or Plato or any other Greek thinker. Its just that "there is nothing new under the sun."
Such as? Not being able to get married isn't a roadblock to a permanent relationship. Lack of a marriage certificate doesn't force a couple to break up. This is an excuse used by homosexuals because the alternative is to ask why they are so much more promiscuous than straights.
Scoring stats for the Swedish NHL players, April 5: =================================================== Mats Sundin watch: Most points during a season: 131 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1980-81 (49+82) 110 Mats Naslund, Montreal Canadiens 1985-86 (43+67) * 109 Mats Sundin, Quebec Nordiques 1992-93 (43+66) 106 Hakan Loob, Calgary Flames 1987-88 (50+56) 104 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1982-83 (46+58) 99 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1984-85 (37+62) Most goals during a season: 50 Hakan Loob, Calgary Flames 1987-88 49 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1980-81 46 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1982-83 45 Tomas Sandstrom, LA Kings 1990-91 43 Mats Naslund, Montreal Canadiens 1985-86 * 43 Mats Sundin, Quebec Nordiques 1992-93 Most assists during a season: 82 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1980-81 67 Mats Naslund, Montreal Canadiens 1985-86 66 Borje Salming, Toronto Maple Leafs 1976-77 * 66 Mats Sundin, Quebec Nordiques 1992-93 62 Kent Nilsson, Calgary Flames 1984-85 61 Borje Salming, Toronto Maple Leafs 1977-78 61 Thomas Steen, Winnipeg Jets 1988-89 Ulf Samuelsson watch: Most penalty minutes during a season: * 243 Ulf Samuelsson, Pittsburgh Penguins 1992-93 (through 3/25) 211 Ulf Samuelsson, Pittsburgh Penguins 1990-91 206 Ulf Samuelsson, Pittsburgh Penguins 1991-92 184 Kjell Samuelsson, Philadelphia Flyers 1988-89 181 Ulf Samuelsson, Hartford Whalers 1988-89 174 Ulf Samuelsson, Hartford Whalers 1985-86 170 Borje Salming, Toronto Maple Leafs 1980-81 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RL Rk Name Team J# Ps Ht Wt Born G A Pts PL Comment -- -- ---------------- ---- -- -- --- --- -------- -- -- --- -- ------- 1 Mats Sundin QUE 13 C 6-2 189 2/13/71 43 66 109 7 2 Ulf Dahlen MIN 22 RW 6-2 195 1/12/67 33 38 71 5 3 Thomas Steen WIN 25 C 5-10 195 6/ 8/60 21 43 64 5 4 Johan Garpenlov SJS 10 LW 5-11 185 3/21/68 21 40 61 5 5 Fredrik Olausson WIN 4 D 6-2 200 10/ 5/66 13 38 51 4 6 Tomas Sandstrom LAK 7 LW 6-2 207 9/ 4/64 22 24 46 2 7 Per-Erik Eklund PHI 9 LW 5-10 175 3/22/63 8 34 42 Injured 8 Calle Johansson WAS 6 D 5-11 205 2/14/67 6 35 41 1 9 Nicklas Lidstrom DET 5 D 6-2 180 4/28/70 7 33 40 2 10 Tommy Sjodin MIN 33 D 5-11 190 8/13/65 7 29 36 11 Ulf Samuelsson PIT 5 D 6-1 195 3/26/64 2 24 26 1 12 Mikael Andersson TBL 34 LW 5-11 185 5/10/66 13 11 24 1 13 Michael Nylander HFD 36 LW 5-11 176 10/ 3/72 5 16 21 2 14 Roger Johansson CGY 34 D 6-1 185 4/ 7/67 4 15 19 1 15 Jan Erixon NYR 20 LW 6-0 196 7/ 8/62 5 10 15 16 Peter Andersson NYR 25 D 6-0 187 8/29/65 4 7 11 1 17 Kjell Samuelsson PIT 28 D 6-6 235 10/18/58 3 6 9 2 18 Tommy Albelin NJD 6 D 6-1 190 5/21/64 1 5 6 19 Per Djoos NYR 44 D 5-11 176 5/11/68 1 1 2 Binghampton? 20 Niclas Andersson QUE 46 LW 5-8 169 5/20/71 0 1 1 Halifax 21 Thomas Forslund CGY 27 LW 6-0 185 11/24/68 0 1 1 Salt Lake 22 Patrik Carnback MON 20 LW 6-0 189 2/ 1/68 0 0 0 Injured 23 Patrik Kjellberg MON 27 LW 6-2 196 6/17/69 0 0 0 Fredericton ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RL=Rank Last week, Rk=Rank, J#=Jersey Number, Ps=Position, Born (mm/dd/yy) G=Goals, A=Assists, Pts=Points, PL=Points scored since Last posted list =============================================================================== Goalie stats: Name Team J# Ps Ht Wt Born ---------------- ---- -- -- --- --- -------- Tommy Soderstrom PHI 30 G 5-9 163 7/17/69 / - - - - - T O T A L - - - - - \ mm/dd vs res r w/l/t sh - sv GP MP GA GAA SOG SV SV% SO A ----- ---- ---- - ----- -- -- -- -- -- --- --- --- --- -- -- 12/17 PIT 4-5 L 0-1-0 27 - 22 1 62 5 4.84 27 22 0.815 12/19 CHI 3-1 W 1-1-0 28 - 27 2 122 6 2.95 55 49 0.891 12/20 @TBL 1-4 L 1-2-0 31 - 27 3 182 10 3.30 86 76 0.884 12/23 PIT 0-4 L 1-3-0 26 - 22 4 242 14 3.47 112 98 0.875 12/26 @WAS 5-5 T 1-3-1 41 - 36 5 307 19 3.71 153 134 0.876 12/29 @LAK 10-2 W 2-3-1 43 - 41 6 367 21 3.43 196 175 0.893 12/30 @SJS 6-2 W 3-3-1 35 - 33 7 427 23 3.23 231 208 0.900 1/ 2 @CGY 3-7 L 3-4-1 32 - 26 8 486 29 3.58 263 234 0.890 1/ 3 @EDM 2-2 T 3-4-2 33 - 31 9 551 31 3.38 296 265 0.895 1/ 7 WAS 8-2 W 4-4-2 33 - 31 10 611 33 3.24 329 296 0.900 1/ 9 NYR 4-3 W 5-4-2 26 - 23 11 671 36 3.22 355 319 0.899 1/10 EDM 4-0 W 6-4-2 29 - 29 12 731 36 2.95 384 348 0.906 1 1/14 CGY 4-4 T 6-4-3 27 - 23 13 796 40 3.02 411 371 0.903 1/16 @BOS 5-4 W 7-4-3 37 - 33 14 856 44 3.08 448 404 0.902 1/17 DET 4-7 L 7-5-3 36 - 29 15 916 51 3.34 484 433 0.895 1/21 BOS 4-5 L 7-6-3 32 - 27 16 976 56 3.44 516 460 0.891 1/23 @NYI 4-8 L 7-7-3 31 - 23 17 1036 64 3.71 547 483 0.883 1 1/24 HFD 5-4 W 8-7-3 25 - 21 18 1098 68 3.72 572 504 0.881 1/30 @PIT 2-4 L 8-8-3 35 - 32 19 1157 71 3.68 607 536 0.883 2/ 3 @NYR 2-2 T 8-8-4 38 - 36 20 1222 73 3.58 645 572 0.887 2/ 9 OTT 8-1 W 9-8-4 28 - 27 21 1282 74 3.46 673 599 0.890 2/11 MTL 0-0 T 9-8-5 23 - 23 22 1347 74 3.30 696 622 0.894 2 2/13 @NJD 4-6 L 9-9-5 32 - 26 23 1407 80 3.41 728 648 0.890 2/14 NJD 2-5 L 9-10-5 26 - 21 24 1467 85 3.48 754 669 0.887 2/16 @CGY 4-4 T 9-10-6 29 - 29 25 1512 85 3.37 783 698 0.891 2/18 @VAN 3-2 W 10-10-6 30 - 28 26 1572 87 3.32 813 726 0.893 2/20 @MIN 2-5 L 10-11-6 33 - 28 27 1632 92 3.38 846 754 0.891 2/22 DET 5-5 - 10-11-6 15 - 12 28 1653 95 3.45 861 766 0.890 3/ 2 PIT 5-4 W 11-11-6 22 - 21 29 1689 96 3.41 883 787 0.891 3/ 5 @WAS 3-0 W 12-11-6 36 - 36 30 1749 96 3.29 919 823 0.896 3 3/ 7 @NJD 4-7 L 12-12-6 41 - 35 31 1808 102 3.38 960 858 0.894 3/ 9 @NYI 2-4 L 12-13-6 24 - 21 32 1867 105 3.37 984 879 0.893 3/11 WAS 6-4 W 13-13-6 28 - 24 33 1927 109 3.39 1012 903 0.892 3/16 MIN 4-3 W 14-13-6 34 - 31 34 1987 112 3.38 1046 934 0.893 3/20 @PIT 3-9 L 14-14-6 27 - 20 35 2027 119 3.52 1073 954 0.889 3/21 NJD 2-3 L 14-15-6 27 - 24 36 2086 122 3.51 1100 978 0.889 3/24 @NYR 5-4 W 15-15-6 45 - 41 37 2146 126 3.52 1145 1019 0.890 2 3/27 @QUE 3-8 L 15-16-6 25 - 19 38 2186 132 3.62 1170 1038 0.887 4/ 1 LAK 1-3 L 15-17-6 26 - 23 39 2246 135 3.61 1196 1061 0.887 4/ 4 TOR 4-0 W 16-17-6 26 - 26 40 2306 135 3.51 1222 1087 0.890 4 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- res=result, sh=shots, sv=saves GP=Games Played, MP=Minutes Played, GA=Goals Against, GAA=Goals Against Average SOG=Shots On Goal, SV=SaVes, SV%=SaVing Percentage, SO=ShutOuts, A=Assists ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Staffan
We've developed a number of applications using DevGuide and found it to be a very useful tool. I've been impressed with the level of integration it affords using the connection editor. I love the general ease of use. I talked with Tali Aben at Sun today about DevGuide + Motif. She was very helpful. We provided some input as to what we'd like to see in the next version of DevGuide. Tali was very enthusiatic about our comments. I mentioned I was going to post this email message and she offered to receive additional comments from the net on what DevGuide should evolve into. Send your comments/wish-list, raving, et. al. about DevGuide to: Tali.Aben@Sun.COM Pretty cool example of a company that cares what we want.... More of this and computers may have a future. Frankly, I like the idea that it will offer some migration capability to DOE/DOMF through an integrated ToolTalk capability, pointed out in March's SunExpert magazine.
Being a parent in need of some help, I ask that you bear with me while I describe the situation which plagues me... I am a divorced father. Chance would have it that "my weekend" with my daughter has fallen upon Easter Weekend this year. Although I am Presbyterian, I had married a Catholic woman. We decided that the Catholic moray of indoctrination of the spouse into the faith was too confining (and restrictive due to time as we had already set a date), and we were married in a Christian Church which was non-denominational. During the years of our marriage, we did not often attend church. When our daughter was born, some years later, my wife insisted that she be baptised as Catholic. This wasn't a problem with me. During a separation of five years, my ex-wife was taken ill with a disease that affected her mental capacities. She was confined to a mental ward for two months before it was diagnosed. It has since been treated "effectively". In other words, professionals have deemed her a functioning member of society. During the recuperation, my ex-wife has embraced Buddism. Her influence over my daughter has been substantial, and has primarily allowed me only Saturday visitation for a number of years. During this period I have read Bible study books to my daughter, and tried to keep her aware of her Christian heritage. Last fall, our divorce was finalized after a year of viscious divorce hearings. At that time I was awarded visitation rights every other weekend. At that time, I started taking my daughter to church quite often, although not every weekend. I did this to attempt to strengthen the Christian ethic and expose her to a religious community. Today, Easter Sunday, I took my daughter to church. When it came time for Communion, my daughter took the bread (The body of Christ) but left the wine (The blood of Christ) professing that she was too young for wine. She then balled the bread up in her hand and tried to descretely throw it under the pew in front of us. I feel this was a slap in the face to me, my religion, and an afront to her religious heritage. It can be construed as breaking several of the commandments if you try. I really felt dishonored by the action. My daughter is only nine years old, but I think she should have been old and mature enough to realize her actions. I have difficulty blaming her directly for religious teachings her mother swears to, but when I discussed this with my daughter she made it clear she believed in Buddhism and not Christianity. My initial response of anger (moderated) was to suggest if there is no faith in Christ then why does she celebrate Easter, or Christmas? I suggested I would never force her to practice my religious beliefs by celebrating holidays with her again. I do not want to "drive her from the fold", and would be willing to allow her to continue practicing Buddhism (as though I had a choice seeing her only for two days out of fourteen) but I want her to want to embrace Christianity. Any suggestions? If you have a response, please e-mail me a copy. (I'm not a regular reader of this newsgroup.) (Naturally, feel free to post too!) Thanks, and I hope you've had a happy Easter. Drew
What is the directory .X11-unix for in /tmp? When I start x, it is created by the system. This directory wasn't created by root, and it contains an empty file (X0) that is owned by me.
Group A Group B ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ Cardiff Devils 7-3 Bracknell Bees Nottingham Panthers 8-3 Billingham Humberside 7-7 Whitley Warriors Murrayfield Racers 11-2 Fife Flyers Whitley Bay 6-9 Cardiff Devils Billingham Bombers 6-8 Murrayfield Humberside 8-5 Bracknell Bees Nottingham Panthers 11-5 Fife Flyers Cardiff Devils 10-4 Humberside Murrayfield Racers 6-4 Nottingham Bracknell Bees 4-9 Whitley Bay Fife Flyers 2-5 Billingham Bracknell Bees 3-8 Cardiff Devils Billingham Bombers 2-8 Nottingham Whitley Bay 5-7 Humberside Fife Flyers 3-12 Murrayfield P W D L F A P P W D L F A P Cardiff Devils 4 4 0 0 34 16 8* Murrayfield Racers 4 4 0 0 37 15 8* Humberside 4 2 1 1 26 27 5 Nottingham Panthers 4 3 0 1 31 16 6* Whitley Bay 4 1 1 2 27 27 3 Billingham Bombers 4 1 0 3 16 26 2 Bracknell Bees 4 0 0 4 15 32 0 Fife Flyers 4 0 0 4 12 39 0 * indicates qualified for Championship Finals Relegation/Promotion A Relegation/Promotion B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Basingstoke 10-4 Swindon Wildcats Sheffield Steelers 12-8 Peterborough Durham Wasps 13-5 Romford Raiders Slough Jets 1-9 MK Kings Basingstoke 6-0 Durham Wasps Sheffield Steelers 9-4 Milton Keynes Swindon 8-5 Romford Raiders Milton Keynes Kings 4-6 Peterborough Durham Wasps 17-2 Swindon Wildcats Slough Jets 2-12 Sheffield Romford 4-10 Basingstoke Peterborough 10-2 Slough Jets Romford *8-3* Durham Wasps Peterborough 8-5 Sheffield Swindon 7-11 Basingstoke Milton Keynes Kings 10-4 Slough Jets P W D L F A P P W D L F A P Basingstoke 4 4 0 0 37 15 8 Sheffield Steelers 4 3 0 0 38 22 6 Durham Wasps 4 2 0 2 33 21 4 Peterborough 4 3 0 1 32 23 6 Swindon 4 1 0 3 21 43 2 Milton Keynes Kings 4 2 0 2 27 20 4 Romford Raiders 4 1 0 3 22 34 2 Slough Jets 4 0 0 4 9 41 0
This is as bad as the "Did You Know" Japan bashing of 2 weeks ago. After finding this set of postings for the third time I hope no one shows up. I don't know why fools insist on posting to every group. It just agrevates people.
One more time... If they released the algorithm, it would be possible for someone to come up with an implementation which was identical, but lacking an escrowed key. Note that the press announcement mentioned that the algorithm was being kept secret for security of the key escrow system. In this case security means "an escrowed key for EVERY clipper chip". Assuming you believed all that is said about the effective of the algorithm, and the escrow system, which would you buy : (a) Chip from firm A with the escrowed key (b) Second source chip from reputable firm B with no key in government escrow.
Re Eric: True, but fortunately we didn't get to find out what they would be like without Recchi for 30 games. Soderstrom: Absolutely. 4 shutouts in 39 games for a rookie without a lot of defense in front of him. Runnerups to Galley and Fedyk who are scoring a ton over their career best. But Galley thinks he's Paul Coffey (puts scoring ahead of defending) and Fedyk has tailed off big time. Eklund: Was a big question mark this year and was coming off injuries. 42 points in 49 games is not bad at all, and recently he's been a huge factor in the wins they've gotten. Eklund has never had a point a game season in his career, his production is very typical for him. How does he qualify as a disappointment? If anything he's a surprise. My choice would be Roussel if I went strictly by what was expected of players, but I never thought that he had what it takes to be a #1 goalie. My biggest disappointment is Bill Dineen. I thought that he was going to be the perfect coach for this young team, instead he's made too many bad moves and IMHO has cost them enough games to keep them out of the playoffs this year. Any coach that thinks putting Eric Lindros at the point on power plays is a bright idea needs to go back to coaching school.
Can any Apollo GURUS out there let me know of their experiences building MIT X11R5, with or without GCC 2.3.3. In particular, is there anything I should watch out for. Thanks in advance
KM> Is the 486DX3/99 anything more than a myth? I haven't heard of it KM>from any source that I trust, and I sure don't see any ads for DX3/99 KM>machines in Computer Shopper. Intel is pretty busy with the Pentium KM>right now; I can't seem them introducing their own competition. I heard the rumor as well, but the story differed. Intel was not coming out with the tripling clock 486, a clone from IBM was. I got this rumor from a pretty good source ( Has designs computer equipment, and hav never been wrong let, but there is a first time for everything. ) ... I can just hear that rumor-mill turning now ... -rdd --- . WinQwk 2.0b#0 . Unregistered Evaluation Copy * KMail 2.95d W-NET HQ, hal9k.ann-arbor.mi.us, +1 313 663 4173 or 3959
A. Folks, do we have an FAQ on tinnitus yet? B. As a lo-o-o-ong time sufferer of tinnitus and as a neuroscientist who has looked over the literature carefully I believe the following are reasonable conclusions: 1. Millions of people suffer from chronic tinnitus. 2. The cause it not understood. 3. There is no accepted treatment that cures it. 4. Some experimental treatments may have helped some people a bit, but there have be no reports--even anecdotal--of massive good results with any of these experimental drugs. 5. Some people with chronic loud tinnitus use noise blocking to get to sleep. 6. Sudden onset loud tinnitus can be caused by injuries and sometimes abates or goes away after a few months. 7. Aspirin is well known to exacerbate tinnitus in some people. 8. There is a national association of tinnitus sufferers in the US. 9. One usually gets used to it. Especially when concentrating on something else the tinnitus becomes unnoticed. 10. Stress and lack of sleep make tinnitus more annoying, sometimes. 11. I'm sure those of us who have it wish there was a cure, but there is not.
While in grad school, I remember a biochemistry friend of mine working with "heat shock proteins". Apparently, burning protein will induce changes in he DNA. Whether these changes survive the denaturing that occurs during digestion I don't know, but I never eat burnt food because of this. Also, many woods contain toxins. As they are burnt, it would seem logical that some may volatilise, and get into the BBQed food. Again, I don't know if these toxins (antifungal and anti-woodeater compounds) would survive the rather harsh conditions of the stomach and intestine, and then would they be able to cross the intestinal mucosa? Maybe someone with more biochemical background than myself (which is almost *anyone*... :)) can shed some light on heat shock proteins and the toxins that may be in the wood used to make charcoal and BBQ.
I have 16MB of memory on my 386SX. I have been running Windows without a swap file for several months. Will Mathcad 4.0 be happy with this, or insist on a swap file?
You seem to be assuming that all arrests are of equal value, and that the use of wiretaps is spread uniformly among them.
I have just checked it and you have three files that are loaded: PROTMAN : 128 Bytes DRIVER : 9072 Bytes WORKGRP : 4416 Bytes No W4WG uses it's own drivers. Not that I know of, I bought two copies, had some problems with one installed both from the same copie, no problems. Do worry I just had a really old BIOS and that's the only problem I got. It will replace all older files (I think) and prompt you for the others. This I do not know... Hope this helps
It looks like Dorothy Denning's wrong-headed ideas have gotten to the Administration even sooner than we feared. It's time to make sure they hear the other side of the story, and hear it loudly! Phil ------- Forwarded Message Subject: text of White House announcement and Q&As on clipper chip encryption Note: This file will also be available via anonymous file transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory /pub/nistnews and via the NIST Computer Security BBS at 301-948-5717. --------------------------------------------------- THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary _________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 16, 1993 STATEMENT BY THE PRESS SECRETARY The President today announced a new initiative that will bring the Federal Government together with industry in a voluntary program to improve the security and privacy of telephone communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law enforcement. The initiative will involve the creation of new products to accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure telecommunications networks and wireless communications links. For too long there has been little or no dialogue between our private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of protecting Americans. Rather than use technology to accommodate the sometimes competing interests of economic growth, privacy and law enforcement, previous policies have pitted government against industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement. Sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to protect electronic funds transfer. It is now being used to protect electronic mail and computer files. While encryption technology can help Americans protect business secrets and the unauthorized release of personal information, it also can be used by terrorists, drug dealers, and other criminals. A state-of-the-art microcircuit called the "Clipper Chip" has been developed by government engineers. The chip represents a new approach to encryption technology. It can be used in new, relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to an ordinary telephone. It scrambles telephone communications using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in commercial use today. This new technology will help companies protect proprietary information, protect the privacy of personal phone conversations and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted electronically. At the same time this technology preserves the ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals. A "key-escrow" system will be established to ensure that the "Clipper Chip" is used to protect the privacy of law-abiding Americans. Each device containing the chip will have two unique 2 "keys," numbers that will be needed by authorized government agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. When the device is manufactured, the two keys will be deposited separately in two "key-escrow" data bases that will be established by the Attorney General. Access to these keys will be limited to government officials with legal authorization to conduct a wiretap. The "Clipper Chip" technology provides law enforcement with no new authorities to access the content of the private conversations of Americans. To demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology, the Attorney General will soon purchase several thousand of the new devices. In addition, respected experts from outside the government will be offered access to the confidential details of the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report their findings. The chip is an important step in addressing the problem of encryption's dual-edge sword: encryption helps to protect the privacy of individuals and industry, but it also can shield criminals and terrorists. We need the "Clipper Chip" and other approaches that can both provide law-abiding citizens with access to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it to hide their illegal activities. In order to assess technology trends and explore new approaches (like the key-escrow system), the President has directed government agencies to develop a comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates: -- the privacy of our citizens, including the need to employ voice or data encryption for business purposes; -- the ability of authorized officials to access telephone calls and data, under proper court or other legal order, when necessary to protect our citizens; -- the effective and timely use of the most modern technology to build the National Information Infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and the competitiveness of American industry in the global marketplace; and -- the need of U.S. companies to manufacture and export high technology products. The President has directed early and frequent consultations with affected industries, the Congress and groups that advocate the privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed. 3 The Administration is committed to working with the private sector to spur the development of a National Information Infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer technologies to give Americans unprecedented access to information. This infrastructure of high-speed networks ("information superhighways") will transmit video, images, HDTV programming, and huge data files as easily as today's telephone system transmits voice. Since encryption technology will play an increasingly important role in that infrastructure, the Federal Government must act quickly to develop consistent, comprehensive policies regarding its use. The Administration is committed to policies that protect all Americans' right to privacy while also protecting them from those who break the law. Further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet. The provisions of the President's directive to acquire the new encryption technology are also available. For additional details, call Mat Heyman, National Institute of Standards and Technology, (301) 975-2758. - - --------------------------------- QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION'S TELECOMMUNICATIONS INITIATIVE Q: Does this approach expand the authority of government agencies to listen in on phone conversations? A: No. "Clipper Chip" technology provides law enforcement with no new authorities to access the content of the private conversations of Americans. Q: Suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation encrypted using the device. What would they have to do to decipher the message? A: They would have to obtain legal authorization, normally a court order, to do the wiretap in the first place. They would then present documentation of this authorization to the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug smugglers. The key is split into two parts, which are stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key escrow system. Q: Who will run the key-escrow data banks? A: The two key-escrow data banks will be run by two independent entities. At this point, the Department of Justice and the Administration have yet to determine which agencies will oversee the key-escrow data banks. Q: How strong is the security in the device? How can I be sure how strong the security is? A: This system is more secure than many other voice encryption systems readily available today. While the algorithm will remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow system, we are willing to invite an independent panel of cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all potential users that there are no unrecognized vulnerabilities. Q: Whose decision was it to propose this product? A: The National Security Council, the Justice Department, the Commerce Department, and other key agencies were involved in this decision. This approach has been endorsed by the President, the Vice President, and appropriate Cabinet officials. Q: Who was consulted? The Congress? Industry? A: We have on-going discussions with Congress and industry on encryption issues, and expect those discussions to intensify as we carry out our review of encryption policy. We have briefed members of Congress and industry leaders on the decisions related to this initiative. Q: Will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers? A: The government designed and developed the key access encryption microcircuits, but it is not providing the microcircuits to product manufacturers. Product manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip manufacturer that produces them. Q: Who provides the "Clipper Chip"? A: Mykotronx programs it at their facility in Torrance, California, and will sell the chip to encryption device manufacturers. The programming function could be licensed to other vendors in the future. Q: How do I buy one of these encryption devices? A: We expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating the "Clipper Chip" into their devices. Q: If the Administration were unable to find a technological solution like the one proposed, would the Administration be willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more powerful encryption devices? A: This is a fundamental policy question which will be considered during the broad policy review. The key escrow mechanism will provide Americans with an encryption product that is more secure, more convenient, and less expensive than others readily available today, but it is just one piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to encryption technology, which the Administration is developing. The Administration is not saying, "since encryption threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement, we will prohibit it outright" (as some countries have effectively done); nor is the U.S. saying that "every American, as a matter of right, is entitled to an unbreakable commercial encryption product." There is a false "tension" created in the assessment that this issue is an "either-or" proposition. Rather, both concerns can be, and in fact are, harmoniously balanced through a reasoned, balanced approach such as is proposed with the "Clipper Chip" and similar encryption techniques. Q: What does this decision indicate about how the Clinton Administration's policy toward encryption will differ from that of the Bush Administration? A: It indicates that we understand the importance of encryption technology in telecommunications and computing and are committed to working with industry and public-interest groups to find innovative ways to protect Americans' privacy, help businesses to compete, and ensure that law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime and terrorism. Q: Will the devices be exportable? Will other devices that use the government hardware?
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary _____________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 15, 1993 PRESS BRIEFING BY DEE DEE MYERS The Briefing Room 9:45 A.M. EDT Q Why was the 10:00 a.m. postponed? MS. MYERS: Just due to scheduling conflicts. So as we put out, the President will meet with the leaders of the national police organizations at 2:00 p.m. in the Rose Garden, as opposed to 10:00 a.m. The only other things on his schedule today are: At 11:00 a.m. he'll meet with General Vessey, who, as you know, is on his way to Vietnam to continue working on the MIA-POW issue. At 12:30 p.m. he'll have lunch with the Vice President in the Oval Office. And at 2:00 p.m. he'll meet with the police organizations. Then from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. he'll do his weekly photos with the various groups. Q A photo op with Vessey? MS. MYERS: There's no coverage on the Vessey meeting. Q Why? MS. MYERS: Why? It's a closed meeting. Q What about the lunch? MS. MYERS: The lunch? No, there's no coverage. Q Is he meeting with any congress people today? MS. MYERS: Nothing scheduled. Q There are no meetings -- MS. MYERS: There are no congressional meetings today, no. Q Has the President been given any information by the Pentagon or reached any conclusion about the validity of this report from Hanoi? Any instructions to Vessey on how to deal with the Vietnamese on that subject? MS. MYERS: Well, clearly, the report is the first order of business. It's high on the agenda on something that they'll discuss. I think the President and General Vessey will discuss the parameters of his visit to Vietnam today, but the President hasn't drawn any conclusions about the report yet. Certainly, it's something that he wants General Vessey to talk with the Vietnamese about first. Q Did the President talk with any Republican senators yesterday about the stimulus package? MS. MYERS: He spoke with Senator Dole. Q How many times? MS. MYERS: I believe once during the day and once last night. Q What was the outcome of that? MS. MYERS: They're continuing to work toward some kind of an agreement on a jobs package. Q Is it your impression that Senator Dole is in any way flexible on this? MS. MYERS: Well, I think we're hopeful that we're going to get some kind of jobs package through the Senate, and we'll continue to work with Senator Dole and others until we reach some kind of an agreement. Q Did they discuss the VAT tax? MS. MYERS: I don't know if that came up. Q Can you check that? MS. MYERS: Sure. Q So what are they -- is the President offering to scale down his program -- is that what he's trying to do, buy it down to where Dole will sign on? MS. MYERS: Well, he's trying to protect as much of it as he can. But it's important to him to get some kind of a jobs package through the Senate and through Congress now. And as soon as we reach some conclusions on that, we'll let you know. But at the moment, he's continuing to consult with members of Congress including, obviously, Senator Dole. Q Is he talking to anybody else? MS. MYERS: I don't believe he talked to any other Republicans yesterday. Q Is he talking to anybody today? MS. MYERS: I don't think anything is scheduled, but I wouldn't rule it out. Q We were led to believe that the President called Mr. Dole on the subject of Russian aid and that Bob Dole brought the conversation around to stimulus package. Is that correct? MS. MYERS: I think the President has contacted several people on Russian aid. I think that it was always expected that the stimulus package or the jobs package will be part of any conversation he would have with Senator Dole. The primary objective of the conversation was Russian aid. That was the first order of business, but it was both. Q In the President's mind, are they linked politically in that if the Republicans continue to reject the stimulus package, he thinks it will be harder to sell Russian aid to the American people? Has he made that argument? MS. MYERS: I can't talk about specifically what arguments he might have made. The President is obviously committed to both. He liked to see a jobs package to the American people first. But as you know, we outlined the details of additional Russian aid last night in Tokyo. Q But does the President believe that the stimulus package will make it more difficult to persuade Americans to vote for Russian -- to accept a vote for Russian aid? MS. MYERS: I think that the President is going to continue to work to pass the stimulus package, to pass a jobs package, and we're still hopeful that we'll get some kind of jobs package through the Congress. Q Is it fair to say that the President is negotiating now with Dole? MS. MYERS: He's discussing options with him. Q On the stimulus, is it your understanding that over the break some Democrats, themselves, have left the support that they had earlier for the package, the stimulus package? MS. MYERS: I think we still have wide support in the Senate for the jobs package. Q But specifically, that you've lost Democrats other than Shelby? MS. MYERS: I don't believe so. There hasn't been a vote. Q What about Kohl? Q Kohl and Feingold? MS. MYERS: There hasn't been a vote yet. And we'll continue to work with senators to try to get a majority to try to bring the package to a vote, because we believe that a majority of the members of the United States Senate support the package. Q If you're weren't worried about Kohl and Feingold, why did George mention Milwaukee projects the other day? MS. MYERS: I think George pointed out a number of projects in a number of states that stand to be funded, or to lose funding if this jobs package doesn't pass. Q No Democrats. (Laughter.) MS. MYERS: I'll let you draw your own conclusions. Q Does he plan to talk to Dole again today or any other Republicans again today? MS. MYERS: There's nothing specifically scheduled, but again, I wouldn't rule it out. Q Does he plan to put out any more press releases to any other states today? MS. MYERS: What we've done is we're in the process of breaking down the benefits of the jobs package state by state. I think it's entirely feasible that as we sort of are able to sum those up, we'll send out press releases to the various states that suggest how their states would benefit from this package. Q Will you share those with us? MS. MYERS: Sure. As we did yesterday. Q Do you have copies of the ones you sent -- MS. MYERS: Yes, we made those available yesterday. And we certainly can continue to provide them today. Q Dee Dee, since yesterday's questions and subsequent stories about the VAT, what further consideration of this issue has been given? MS. MYERS: Nothing's changed since yesterday. I think the President commented on it this morning to say only that it was something he knew was being considered by the task force and that he has not made a decision on, and I don't think we have anything to add to that. Q But he also said that business and labor groups are telling him they support it. Can you tell us -- MS. MYERS: I think that there has been -- I'm not going to speculate on who supports it. I think the President said that there has been some support among business and labor groups. I don't think he said he was directly contacted by them. Q Are we to take that to mean that the administration has sounded out business and labor groups on this -- MS. MYERS: I think there's been plenty of public discourse on this over the years and even recently, but I don't think I want to add to that. Q In February, though, the President said that this was something to be considered 10 or 15 years down the road. What has happened between then and now to cause this administration to change its mind? MS. MYERS: I think as we said yesterday, it is something that the working groups are looking at. They're considering a wide variety of options on everything from funding to specific options that will be covered by the President's health care plan. The President has not taken it up yet, has not made a decision on it. And beyond that, I don't have anything to add. Q You haven't answered the question. It wasn't being considered by anyone in the White House after the President's comments in February, and George reaffirmed that in a briefing. Q And then suddenly -- Q What happened? MS. MYERS: The working groups, as we have said throughout, we instructed to consider a wide variety of options across-the-board. And one of the things that has been talked about and that they are clearly considering is some kind of a value-added tax. Q But the President himself took this off the table, Dee Dee, and suddenly it reappears. And this goes to the credibility of this administration in a way. What has happened in the meantime? MS. MYERS: The President has not looked at this, it hasn't been presented to him, again, yet. The working groups are looking at it, as they're looking at a wide variety of options, and no decisions have been made. Q And it raises the question of how independently the task force is working. MS. MYERS: The task force was instructed to consider all options, and they've taken that mandate seriously and they're considering all options. Q But that's not the impression that the President left in February. The impression he left was that this was something that was long-range, to be looked at 10, 15 years down the road. The clear implication of his remarks was that this was something that was not on the table, not an option. Q "If it changes I'll tell you." Q Bring him on. Q And you repeatedly referred to the President's remarks, telling us that those were still in operation. MS. MYERS: It's changed, and we told you. (Laughter.) Q But that's what Alice Rivlin's comments and Donna Shalala comments were about. I mean, that seemed like an orchestrated effort because you have two independent Cabinet officers -- MS. MYERS: I wouldn't -- no, Alice Rivlin's not a Cabinet member, first of all. Second of all, it was not orchestrated, but clearly, they both said yesterday and in the last couple of days that it's something that's being looked at. We confirmed that yesterday. And I don't have anything to add to that. Q Is it because he has very few options? Q Is this something that it will be incumbent upon the task force to convince the President about? In other words, has the President himself personally ruled it out and it's now up to the task force to convince him to put it back on the table? Or is it, in fact, back on the table, having been placed there by discussions with the President? MS. MYERS: It is not the working group's mission at this point to convince the President of anything. It is their mission to put before him his options and to explain the benefits and the costs and the basic pros and cons of each of those options. I think that they will certainly present the VAT to him in that context, and at this point he's not -- that presentation has not been made, but it's something that he will hear and he has not made a decision on. Q They will present it to him as one of his options, though he specifically ruled it out? MS. MYERS: Correct. Q Dee Dee, is this more than a trial balloon? Is this a serious consideration that the working groups are giving to this form of taxation? MS. MYERS: It's simply a statement of fact. The working groups are considering a wide variety of options on a number of issues relating to health care reform. One of the options that they're looking at is the VAT. Q Dee Dee, when the working groups were examining this possibility, was this on the table during the same time period that you were telling us that it was not? MS. MYERS: I don't know what the specific timing of their drafting of options is. I don't know. Q Who was telling you that it was not under consideration? MS. MYERS: I was referring back to the President's comments. Q Have they discovered that the sin taxes won't raise enough money to fund the core benefit package? MS. MYERS: No, there's no decisions that have been made on how to pay for the health care plan. Q I'm asking whether the projections -- MS. MYERS: There's a number of options depending on how the plan is structured. You can't decide how much the plan is going to cost until you decide what the plan is going to look like. And so you can't discuss what financing options have been ruled in our out until you know. Q Dee Dee, we've been told that they have a computer models on a number of possible packages. MS. MYERS: Correct. Q The question is whether they have now determined whether sin taxes would not produce enough money for even the barest minimum package. That is not a very difficult computation. MS. MYERS: It is a question that you know that we're not going to answer until -- there's a number of options being considered. It depends on how the package is structured. The exact details of the package and the financing mechanisms used to pay for them are all among the decisions that have yet to be made. Q And when the President has been meeting with health care -- his health care advisors, which we are told he has been doing -- MS. MYERS: Correct. Q they have never once said to him, these are your funding options, including the VAT? He has never heard the word VAT in his -- MS. MYERS: I am not going to comment on the specific nature of the daily -- they're not daily, but the quasi-regular briefings. Q Well, you have. MS. MYERS: I have not, other than to say that he's not considered the VAT. And I think that is a true statement. Q No, but you said that it has not been presented to him as an option. MS. MYERS: Correct. Q That doesn't mean he hasn't heard about it. MS. MYERS: I'm not going to get into the details of what's discussed. I think that statement stands for itself. Q specific, Dee Dee. When you say he hasn't looked at it, do you mean that he hasn't looked at it in terms of paying for medical coverage, or hasn't looked at it in general? Because back in Chilicothe he was very specific in defining how it works, what the advantages are, the whole thing. It sounds like -- MS. MYERS: But that was -- I think in Chilicothe, if you go back to his remarks there, it was a broader philosophical discussion of the tax structure. And I think the comments were generally in reference to the overall economic plan. But clearly, it's something that he's thought about in the broad context. I mean, that was clear in Chilicothe. What I'm saying is that in the process of the working groups it's something that he hasn't considered yet. It's something that the working groups will present to him among the number of options, and that no decisions have been made. And I'm not going to comment any further on the details of the meetings where health care issues are being discussed. Q It's your statement from this podium that no discussion of this has taken place. You say that no option -- that the option has not been presented to him. MS. MYERS: That is correct. Q Do you stand by -- does the White House still stand by George's statement in March that this will not be in the proposal? MS. MYERS: No decisions have been made. We have nothing to add to what's already been said. Q Let me follow up here. Do you stand by what Rivlin said yesterday, that if any kind of VAT were to be used or considered, that other changes to the tax code would have to be made so that it would be less regressive? MS. MYERS: I'm not going to comment any further on what might happen if. Q But do you stand by the previous conversations in February that if there were to be a VAT, I think the President said you'd exclude food and energy -- MS. MYERS: I'm not going to comment on the specific structure of a decision that hasn't been made. Q Was the President aware prior to Donna Shalala's comments yesterday that this was under consideration by the working groups? MS. MYERS: I don't know specifically what -- Q Could you check for us, because that's a real important credibility question? MS. MYERS: Sure. Q Since the task force was brought together this issue has been discussed, at the beginning and throughout, as one fairly painless way to raise a lot of money. Were you all kept in the dark? Was the Press Office kept in the dark over the past month and a half when you've been denying that a VAT tax would be considered that it was actually on the table over there as an option? MS. MYERS: I think we've said all that we have to say. It is something the working groups are looking at. The President has not made a decision about it yet. And beyond that, I have nothing to add. Q Well, sorry, Dee Dee, there are still a couple of questions that we are going to have to ask because we have a problem with credibility here -- yours primarily. What we're asking is, if you all were not told at all that this thing was being considered while you were coming out here and telling us that it was not, or if it's a case that you were coming out here and deliberately misleading us. MS. MYERS: I don't believe that anyone has ever come out here and deliberately misled you from this podium -- ever --ever. Q Has anyone tried to shade it a little bit to indicate something -- has anybody told anybody to come out -- MS. MYERS: We're not trying to shade answers or deliberately mislead anybody. I've said what I have to say about this issue. Q All we were trying to find out -- MS. MYERS: I understand what you're trying to find out and I've given you the answers, Helen. Q We're trying to find out what changed -- what made it an option again. That's the -- MS. MYERS: The working groups were given a broad mandate to investigate all options, and they are doing that. Q Yes, but it wasn't an option before. How can you investigate it if the President has taken it off the table? MS. MYERS: It is something that they're obviously considering and the President has not made a decision on. Q Yes, but he took it off the table in February. MS. MYERS: Working groups are considering it. They'll present it to the President at some point and he'll make a decision. Q Why would they consider it if he has taken it off the table? MS. MYERS: It's clearly on the table. Q Yes, but he took it off the table. Did he change his mind? MS. MYERS: It's back on the table, Bill. Q Did he change his mind? MS. MYERS: He said this morning that he hasn't made a decision about it. He obviously knows that it's on the table. It's something that he will look at at some and when we have a decision on this we'll let you know. Q So he must have changed his mind, right? MS. MYERS: At some point it will be looked at. I mean, -- Q Dee Dee, there's like two options -- either he changed his mind or the working groups think they're authority exceeds the President's. MS. MYERS: The working groups were given a broad mandate to look at all options; they've done that. Q Are you going to put out his income tax? MS. MYERS: Yes, there will be something available on his income tax probably later this afternoon. His return will be available. Q Will there be any kind of briefing to go through it? MS. MYERS: No, nothing's planned. I think someone will be available, probably not in a briefing setting, but to walk you through the questions. Q We're used to be walked line-by-line through the presidential tax forms. MS. MYERS: I've seen those briefings. (Laughter.) Q Could we have one? MS. MYERS: No, I don't think there will be any kind of a formal briefing, but there will be somebody available to answer your questions about it. Q Did they file a joint form? MS. MYERS: Yes. Q When did he file it? MS. MYERS: I believe it's being filed today. Q Dee Dee, is there going to be a backgrounder for Miyazawa? MS. MYERS: No, there will be a readout after the meeting. Q No backgrounder today? MS. MYERS: No backgrounder today. Q This is complicated stuff. We need help. (Laughter.) MS. MYERS: We can't give you taxes and Miyazawa all in one day, it's too confusing. (Laughter.) Q Vance and Owen have opened the doors on the use of force in Bosnia. They've both said that, A, they never ruled it out, and B, it might be necessary now. Does that influence your thinking on whether or not to change your approach? MS. MYERS: There's been no change in our policy towards Bosnia. We have always said that we'd consider -- Q But does that impact upon your decision? Are they people whose opinions would carry weight with you? MS. MYERS: They're people whose opinions carry weight certainly. I mean, the President supports the process that they've initiated. But there's been no change in our policy for Bosnia, although we're considering a number of options right now. If the Serbs don't come back to the negotiating table, if they don't sign on to some kind of an agreement, we will consider additional options, which we've been saying regularly. Q One follow-up question then? We cannot get a straight answer from anyone in the administration. Why do you not set a deadline for the Serbs? Can you tell us the strategic or tactical reasons for not giving them a deadline to come to the table? MS. MYERS: We're continuing to put pressure on them every day. Q Which doesn't work so -- MS. MYERS: Well, we think it is having some effect. We're going to continue to tighten sanctions. As you know, we support the omnibus resolution. We expect that to come to a vote on the 26th. Q You say it's having an effect -- can you give us any documentation? MS. MYERS: I'd be happy to provide somebody to talk to you about the impact of the sanctions and things like that. Q There's been no -- you have not been able to provide anybody who can tell us that the sanctions have had any effect in Bosnia. Serbia, yes; in Bosnia, no. MS. MYERS: I think that they've had effect in Serbia and we think they've had some effect in Bosnia. And again, I'll be happy to provide somebody to walk you through the details of that, if you'd like. Q We would like to hear from someone who can show us what the effect has been in Bosnia. We had the briefing on all of the terrible things that are happening in Belgrade, but we haven't seen anything that indicates an impact on the fighting. Can you provide something along those lines? MS. MYERS: I will see what I can get you. Q On the extra Russian aid that Christopher announced this morning -- where is that money coming from? MS. MYERS: We'll have to work with Congress on the details of that package. Q So that would be new money that you would hope to get? MS. MYERS: Yes, that's new money, in addition to the $1.6 billion announced in Vancouver. So I assume that you all have seen the $1.8-billion package that was announced this morning in Tokyo by Secretary Christopher. Q Isn't there a concern, though, about offering something which you have to get in Congress? I mean, that was the concern with Vancouver; you didn't want to do that. MS. MYERS: The concern with Vancouver was to do something immediately, which required money that was already approved in the Fiscal '93 budget. What we're looking at now is a little bit longer-term plan to build on top of the $1.6 billion that we announced in Vancouver. This clearly will require congressional approval, or some of it will anyway, and we're going to continue to work with Congress to make that happen. Q To what extent has that been vetted or agreed to by Congress? MS. MYERS: The President has had a number of conversations with members and will continue to work with them as this process moves forward. Q Was Christopher able to put this package out with a fair degree of understanding that you will be able to get it through Congress? MS. MYERS: It was created in consultation with Congress. Q In meeting with the law enforcement officials, is that -- does that have a set speech and a goal? A direction? MS. MYERS: Yes, the President will talk about -- and the law enforcement organizations are endorsing the President's jobs package. They believe particularly the summer jobs package will help give kids something to do. Q Who are they? MS. MYERS: It's members or leadership from three organizations: NAPO, which is the National Association of Police Organizations; IBPO, which is the International Brotherhood of Police Organizations, I believe; and IUPA, which is the International Union of Police Associations. Q Will the FBI chief be there? MS. MYERS: The FBI chief? No. Q Or any other federal law enforcement officials? MS. MYERS: No, it will be the President and these national law enforcement organization leaders. Q Does the $1.8 billion announced today include the $400 million that's in the FY '94 budget for disarmament? MS. MYERS: No. The Nunn-Lugar money is separate. Q So this would be the $700 million that's in the budget already, plus another $1.1 billion? MS. MYERS: I believe all of this is on top of the $700 million already in the budget. Q Is this going to be part of the supplemental or Fiscal '94 -- MS. MYERS: We'll work with Congress on the exact funding mechanism -- on exactly how this will be paid for. Q This $1.8 billion on top of -- MS. MYERS: On top of $700 million -- on top of the $400 million Nunn-Lugar money we announced earlier. Q And this is what prompted the President to call Bob Dole -- it was on this tranche, not on the previous money he was calling Bob Dole? MS. MYERS: Correct. Q Is there a briefing on Miyazawa? MS. MYERS: There will be a readout after the meeting with Miyazawa. Tomorrow. Q Dee Dee, on a totally unrelated matter, some Republicans who are active in the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are complaining about this new cozy relationship between the White House and the Chamber of Commerce. There are -- the town hall meeting the other night, the satellite and all of this relationship. Does the White House feel that you're getting too close to these Chambers of Commerce? MS. MYERS: That's an interesting charge. (Laughter.) After how many years of Democrats being accused of not paying any attention to the Chambers, now there are those who would accuse us of being too close. I think that's interesting. But no, we're thrilled by the support we've received from the national Chamber and local Chambers across the country and we'll continue to work with them on this and other initiatives. Q What's the status of the President thinking about going to this Democratic retreat? MS. MYERS: It's on his calendar. I think he'll almost certainly go. Q All three days? MS. MYERS: We haven't figured out exactly when he'll be there yet. Q Is it open to coverage? MS. MYERS: No, I believe the whole thing is closed. Q Is he going to have any kind of address, statement, anything at all on the gay rights march on the 25th? MS. MYERS: We're still looking at that. We haven't made a final decision about how we'll -- who will make a statement or what -- Q Any meetings scheduled with any of the leaders? MS. MYERS: Nothing is scheduled, but I wouldn't rule it out. Q What about an AIDS czar? MS. MYERS: It's coming. Q Anything on the weekend? Q There's been a suggestion that he's going to this retreat to avoid having to participate in the gay rights -- or appear or have any involvement in the gay rights march. MS. MYERS: No, I think this is something he's been discussing for a long time -- appearing at the Senate Democratic retreat. Q The weekend? MS. MYERS: Weekend? Don't know -- the only thing on right now is the radio address on Saturday. Q Any travel plans? MS. MYERS: If it changes -- none right now. Q He's not going to be off campaigning for his stimulus package? MS. MYERS: No specific plans right now. Q What about mid-week? Anything likely? MS. MYERS: It's possible. Yes, I think it's likely that we'll travel next week -- certainly the weekend. Q Has he called Thurmond about his daughter? MS. MYERS: I don't know. I'll check. Q Going to name a drug czar this weekend? MS. MYERS: This weekend? I don't believe so. Q And the radio address on Saturday -- is that going to be focused on the stimulus package? MS. MYERS: I'm sure it will. THE PRESS: Thank you.
A Alan Brock 4/14/93 Orange County Register Editorial titled "A case for repealing the income tax" got my attention. Some quotes: "... a tax on income, because of the flexible definition of that concept, invites the government to snoop into every nook and cranny of our lives. Encouraging people to snoop on one another and report transgressions against the almighty state, which most Americans deplored in Nazi or communist regimes..." "... Although most Americans paid no income tax at all 50 years ago -- withholding began only during World War II, as a "temporary" exigency, and in 1948 the median family federal income tax was $9..." "Last year the federal government got only 37 percent of its income from income taxes... How long ago was it that the federal government somehow managed to stagger along on 63 percent of its 1992 revenue? ... Would you believe five?..."
The Swiss population is (and well was) far larger than that. I think your question should be, "...losing sleep over a million expert riflemen?" Certainly he could have conquered Switzerland, but a million armed militiamen (especially in a mountainous area, where tanks' effectiveness is limited) would have made it a real pain. The question a conqueror would ask, is "is it worth the trouble?" The more difficult an invasion is, the more likely the answer would be "no." Certainly a million riflemen (as opposed to a professional army of only ten or twenty thousand, the best a country the size of Switzerland could support), makes invasions more difficult. Really? In 1939? I'm not even sure you could prove that today (despite the steriotype.) Certainly the Swiss bankers were not essential to the German war-time economy.
Not if they are unwilling to go through a public marriage ceremony, nor if they say they are willing but have not actually done so. Let's distinguish _real_ logistical problems (like being stranded on a desert island) from _excuses_ (such as waiting for so-and-so's brother to come back from being in the army so he can be in the ceremony)...
[Text deleted, no value judgement implied] More than shocking. What this says to me is no less than that government is very interested in monitoring the public. This does more than scare me, it mortifies me. PGP and RIPEM must become widespread enough to resist what Mr. Finney has [IMHO correctly] identified as the next logical step. What was once an academic discussion with regard to concealing cyphertext, has now become a real consideration. The rhetoric that the clinton administration seems obsessed with, harmony, either or propositions, tension, tells me that they know how difficult it will be to sell this proposition. The phrase I hear more and more is "I can't believe this is actually happening here." Call me conserative, Clinton was a huge mistake that we'll all be paying for tommorow and many years from now. Have we approached the age of speakeasy public key depositiories? uni (Dark)
What can be done, short of circumcision, for an adult male whose foreskin will not retract?
Am I the only person who thinks the Reds sleeveless uniforms are ugly? Yet another reason why they won't win the NL West! ;) ------------------------------------------------------- Eric Roush fierkelab@ bchm.biochem.duke.edu "I am a Marxist, of the Groucho sort" Grafitti, Paris, 1968 TANSTAAFL! (although the Internet comes close.)
This kind of argument cries for a comment... : >>...God did not create : >>disease nor is He responsible for the maladies of newborns. : > : >>What God did create was life according to a protein code which is : >>mutable and can evolve. Without delving into a deep discussion of : >>creationism vs evolutionism, God created the original genetic code : >>perfect and without flaw. : > ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~ Do you have any evidence for this? If the code was once perfect, and has degraded ever since, we _should_ have some evidence in favour of this statement, shouldn't we? Perhaps the biggest "imperfection" of the code is that it is full of non-coding regions, introns, which are so called because they intervene with the coding regions (exons). An impressive amount of evidence suggests that introns are of very ancient origin; it is likely that early exons represented early protein domains. Is the number of introns decreasing or increasing? It appears that intron loss can occur, and species with common ancestry usually have quite similar exon-intron structure in their genes. On the other hand, the possibility that introns have been inserted later, presents several logical difficulties. Introns are removed by a splicing mechanism - this would have to be present, but unused, if introns are inserted. Moreover, intron insertion would have required _precise_ targeting - random insertion would not be tolerated, since sequences for intron removal (self-splicing of mRNA) are conserved. Besides, transposition of a sequence usually leaves a trace - long terminal repeats and target - site duplications, and these are not found in or near intron sequences. I seriously recommend reading textbooks on molecular biology and genetics before posting "theological arguments" like this. Try Watson's Molecular Biology of the Gene or Darnell, Lodish & Baltimore's Molecular Biology of the Cell for starters. : Remember, the question was posed in a theological context (Why does : God cause disease in newborns?), and my answer is likewise from a : theological perspective -- my own. It is no less valid than a purely : scientific perspective, just different. Scientific perspective is supported by the evidence, whereas theological perspectives often fail to fulfil this criterion. : I think you misread my meaning. I said God made the genetic code perfect, : but that doesn't mean it's perfect now. It has certainly evolved since. For the worse? Would you please cite a few references that support your assertion? Your assertion is less valid than the scientific perspective, unless you support it by some evidence. In fact, it has been claimed that parasites and diseases are perhaps more important than we've thought - for instance, sex might have evolved as defence against parasites. (This view is supported by computer simulations of evolution, eg Tierra.) : Perhaps. I thought it was higher energy rays like X-rays, gamma : rays, and cosmic rays that caused most of the damage. In fact, it is thermal energy that does most of the damage, although it is usually mild and easily fixed by enzymatic action. : Actually, neither of us "knows" what the atmosphere was like at the : time when God created life. According to my recollection, most : biologists do not claim that life began 4 billion years ago -- after : all, that would only be a half billion years or so after the earth : was created. It would still be too primitive to support life. I : seem to remember a figure more like 2.5 to 3 billion years ago for : the origination of life on earth. Anyone with a better estimate? I'd replace "created" with "formed", since there is no need to invoke any creator if the Earth can be formed without one. Most recent estimates of the age of the Earth range between 4.6 - 4.8 billion years, and earliest signs of life (not true fossils, but organic, stromatolite-like layers) date back to 3.5 billion years. This would leave more than billion years for the first cells to evolve. I'm sorry I can't give any references, this is based on the course on evolutionary biochemistry I attended here. : >>dominion, it was no great feat for Satan to genetically engineer : >>diseases, both bacterial/viral and genetic. Although the forces of : >>natural selection tend to improve the survivability of species, the : >>degeneration of the genetic code tends to more than offset this. Again, do you _want_ this be true, or do you have any evidence for this supposed "degeneration"? I can understand Scott's reaction: : > Excuse me, but this is so far-fetched that I know you must be : > jesting. Do you know what pathogens are? Do you know what : > Point Mutations are? Do you know that EVERYTHING CAN COME : > ABOUT SPONTANEOUSLY?!!!!! : : In response to your last statement, no, and neither do you. : You may very well believe that and accept it as fact, but you : cannot *know* that. I hope you don't forget this: We have _evidence_ that suggests everything can come about spontaneously. Do you have evidence against this conclusion? In science, one does not have to _believe_ in anything. It is a healthy sign to doubt and disbelieve. But the right path to walk is to take a look at the evidence if you do so, and not to present one's own conclusions prior to this. Theology does not use this method. Therefore, I seriously doubt it could ever come to right conclusions. : >>Human DNA, being more "complex", tends to accumulate errors adversely : >>affecting our well-being and ability to fight off disease, while the : >>simpler DNA of bacteria and viruses tend to become more efficient in : >>causing infection and disease. It is a bad combination. Hence : >>we have newborns that suffer from genetic, viral, and bacterial : >>diseases/disorders. You are supposing a purpose, not a valid move. Bacteria and viruses do not exist to cause disease. They are just another manifests of a general principle of evolution - only replication saves replicators from degradiation. We are just an efficient method for our DNA to survive and replicate. The less efficient methods didn't make it to the present. And for the last time. Please present some evidence for your claim that human DNA is degrading through evolutionary processes. Some people have claimed that the opposite is true - we have suppressed our selection, and thus are bound to degrade. I haven't seen much evidence for either claim. : But then I ask, So? Where is this relevant to my discussion in : answering John's question of why? Why are there genetic diseases, : and why are there so many bacterial and viral diseases which require : babies to develop antibodies. Is it God's fault? (the original : question) -- I say no, it is not. Of course, nothing "evil" is god's fault. But your explanation does not work, it fails miserably. : You may be right. But the fact is that you don't know that : Satan is not responsible, and neither do I. : : Suppose that a powerful, evil being like Satan exists. Would it : be inconceivable that he might be responsible for many of the ills : that affect mankind? I don't think so. He could have done a much better Job. (Pun intended.) The problem is, it seems no Satan is necessary to explain any diseases, they are just as inevitable as any product of evolution. : Did I say that? Where? Seems to me like another bad inference. : Actually what you've done is to oversimplify what I said to the : point that your summary of my words takes on a new context. I : never said that people are "meant" (presumably by God) "to be : punished by getting diseases". Why I did say is that free moral : choices have attendent consequences. If mankind chooses to reject : God, as people have done since the beginning, then they should not : expect God to protect them from adverse events in an entropic : universe. I am not expecting this. If god exists, I expect him to leave us alone. I would also like to hear why do you believe your choices are indeed free. This is an interesting philosophical question, and the answer is not as clear-cut as it seems to be. What consequences would you expect from rejecting Allah? : Oh, I admit it's not perfect (yet). But I'm working on it. :) A good library or a bookstore is a good starting point. : What does this have to do with the price of tea in China, or the : question to which I provided an answer? Biology and Genetics are : fine subjects and important scientific endeavors. But they explain : *how* God created and set up life processes. They don't explain : the why behind creation, life, or its subsequent evolution. Why is there a "why behind"? And your proposition was something that is not supported by the evidence. This is why we recommend these books. Is there any need to invoke any why behind, a prime mover? Evidence for this? If the whole universe can come into existence without any intervention, as recent cosmological theories (Hawking et al) suggest, why do people still insist on this? : Thanks Scotty, for your fine and sagely advice. But I am : not highly motivated to learn all the nitty-gritty details : of biology and genetics, although I'm sure I'd find it a : fascinating subject. For I realize that the details do : not change the Big Picture, that God created life in the : beginning with the ability to change and adapt to its : environment. I'm sorry, but they do. There is no evidence for your big picture, and no need to create anything that is capable of adaptation. It can come into existence without a Supreme Being. Try reading P.W. Atkins' Creation Revisited (Freeman, 1992). Petri
It doesn't make a whole lot of difference, actually, since they weren't building spares of the station hardware anyway. (Dumb.) At least this is only one launch to fail.
Hi All Hope you all had a Blessed Easter. I have a document which I believe refutes the notion that the SSPX (Society of Saint Pius X) is in schism, or that there has been any legitimate excommunication. If anyone is interested in reading the truth about this matter please email me and I'll send them the document via email. Its 26 pages long, so I wont be posting it on the news group. Its titled NEITHER SCHISMATIC NOR EXCOMMUNICATED This article was originally an English translation, by the Society of Saint Pius X in Ireland, from the French Journal 'Courrier de Rome'. The French article, in its turn, was a translation from the Italian of the Roman Newsletter 'Si Si No No'. This booklet contains the transcription, with some minor editing, of the Irish article, and was transcribed and produced by John Clay, Townsville, Queensland, Australia. (There is no copyright attached. Simon Shields) CONTENTS NEITHER SCHISMATIC NOR EXCOMMUNICATED.......................1 CATHOLICS ON THE RACK.......................................1 THE CHOICE OF THE 'SENSUS FIDEI'............................3 AMBIGUITY...................................................4 THE CHURCH IS NOT BICEPHALOUS (TWO-HEADED)..................6 THE PERSON AND THE FUNCTION OF THE POPE.....................6 UNITY OF FAITH AND UNITY OF COMMUNION.......................8 THE CRITERIA OF CHOICE.....................................10 ECUMENISM - AN ATTACK ON THE UNITY OF THE CHURCH...........10 THE EXTRAORDINARY SITUATION WITHIN THE CHURCH..............11 EXTRAORDINARY DUTIES OF LAY PEOPLE.........................12 DUTIES AND POWERS OF BISHOPS...............................14 FROM THE FACT OF THEIR GREATER DUTIES......................14 FROM THE FACT OF THEIR GREATER POWER.......................14 THE POWER AND THE DUTY OF THE PAPACY.......................15 THE ELECTION OF BISHOPS....................................15 STATE AND RIGHT OF NECESSITY...............................16 1. THERE IS IN THE CHURCH A REAL STATE OF NECESSITY........17 FOR SOULS..................................................18 FOR SEMINARIANS............................................18 2. ALL THE ORDINARY MEANS HAVE BEEN EXHAUSTED..............19 3. THE ACT ITSELF IS NOT INTRINSICALLY EVIL AND THERE RESUL..........21 4. IN THE LIMITS OF EFFECTIVE REQUIREMENTS.................22 5. THE AUTHORITY OF THE POPE IS NOT PUT INTO QUESTION......23 THE EXCOMMUNICATION........................................24 CONCLUSION.................................................25 BIBLIOGRAPHY...............................................26-31 God Bless ye all, An Irish Fairwell may the road rise to meet you may the wind be always at your back may the sun shine warm upon your face, the rains fall soft upon your fields, and until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of his hand.
: Are the Serbs doing the work of God? Hmm... : I've been wondering if anyone would ever ask the question, : Are the governments of the United States and Europe not moving : to end the ethnic cleansing by the Serbs because the targets are : muslims? : Can/Does God use those who are not following him to accomplish : tasks for him? Esp those tasks that are punative? : James Sledd : no cute sig.... but I'm working on it. Are you suggesting that God supports genocide? Perhaps the Germans were "punishing" Jews on God's behalf? Any God who works that way is indescribably evil, and unworthy of my worship or faith.
Not one, but two: Obesity in Europe 88, proceedings of the 1st European Congress on Obesity Annals of NY Acad. Sci. 1987
i think lamont is tryin sax out in left because he is messing with his mind. he is trying to stir loose the mental block that he has had. sax was supposed to play in left last night (4-14) but we were rained out. it's not like we need to add any more outfielders to our team. it's mental
Hello netters! I have a fairly weak question to ask everybody in netland. I've looked though the last FAQ for comp.graphics but I didn't find my answer. Thus the post. I'll keep it short. QUESTION: How do I display any raster files, gif files, iff or tiff images that I have on my "root window" or background? I have a sun ipc, openwindows 3.0, Sun OS 4.1.3 if that helps any. I've compiled POV for the sun and would like to display some of the work I have done as a background/tile. Thanks for any help or information that you provide. Have a good day. Scott Fleming OSI
Well, if they were Satanists, or followers of an obscure religion, then I would be sure that Christians would in unison condemn and make this to a show case. But when we are dealing with a fanatical Revelation preacher that kills ultimately everyone, including the innocent children, then it seems that we are dealing with Christians and christians (note the spelling). And does not this show the dangers with religion -- in order word a mind virus that will make mothers capable of letting their small children burn to ashes while they scream? Cheers, Kent
Ed: Before you ridicule the intelligence of other people, LEARN TO SPELL. Your typographical errors are, indeed, "embarassing" to those of us who read alt.politics.libertarian for its allegedly superior ideas and writing.
You are hereby authorized not to laugh. By special dispensation of her Hillariness. This offer void where prohibited by law, consumer must pay applicable sales tax..... -- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
: Anyone familiar with this video card? What chipset does the winjet use - S3? : As I am in the market for a VLG video card, what is the best chipset among : S3, Cirrus Logic and Tseng Lab (ATI is out of the question - too expensive) ? : Thanks. WinJet is not a video card -- it's _printer_ accelerator manufactured by LaserMaster (Eden Prairie, MN). -- Willy
Or read fixes 9, 10, and 11 to the MIT distribution. This is a known problem - just apply those fixes and set SunPost411FCSLd to YES and OSTeenyVersion in mit/config/sun.cf to 3. In fix-09: In fix-10: In fix-11:
:>re: majority of users not readding from floppy. :>Well, how about those of us who have 1400-picture CD-ROMS and would like to use :>CVIEW because it is fast and it works well, but can't because the moron lacked :>the foresight to create the temp file in the program's path, not the current :>didrectory? : Actually the most flexible way to create temp files is to check for a TEMP or : TMP environment variable and create the files on the drive and directory pointedto by the variable. This is pretty much a standard for DOS, Windows and OS/2 : applications. Unfortunately, cview does not pay attention to the temp environment variable.
/ iftccu:talk.politics.guns / hays@ssd.intel.com (Kirk Hays) / 3:31 pm Apr 13, 1993 / Good point, Kirk. He's still around too. He's responded by email to a couple of my posts, and gosh darn, he's gotten down right civil! This happed about the time he got his first firearm. Wonder if there is a relationship here? Turns out that MOST people (at least the ones who are not criminals to start with) act responsibility once given the chance.
Have you informed your wife of this prioritization? This board will have Thou hast used my name in vain! I never coerce. Ridicule, maybe, but never coerce. Please take responsibility for your actions. (deletia)
Here is the OPI (Offensive Production Index) for all NL players with at least 10 at-bats. It is early in the season so there are some high numbers. Barry Bonds finished last season at 0.795. I welcome comments and suggestions. Kevin League OPI: 0.410 League BA: 0.252 League SLG: 0.375 League OBA: 0.321 Rank Player OPI BA SLG OBA ----------------------------------------------------- 1 Phi,daulton 1.101 0.333 0.875 0.515 2 Phi,kruk 1.069 0.429 0.821 0.529 3 Cub,grace 1.007 0.452 0.742 0.514 4 Cub,may 0.931 0.389 0.889 0.421 5 Col,boston 0.888 0.545 0.545 0.545 6 Pit,bell 0.873 0.429 0.714 0.467 7 Col,galarraga 0.867 0.458 0.708 0.458 8 StL,pena 0.833 0.400 0.600 0.516 9 StL,zeile 0.811 0.440 0.560 0.500 10 Cin,mitchell 0.810 0.429 0.643 0.467 11 Mon,lansing 0.792 0.419 0.677 0.438 12 Pit,slaught 0.754 0.474 0.526 0.474 13 Mon,vanderwal 0.746 0.389 0.556 0.476 14 NYM,tfernandez 0.709 0.300 0.400 0.500 15 SnF,martinez 0.697 0.300 0.400 0.500 16 Hou,bagwell 0.695 0.367 0.567 0.424 17 Col,hayes 0.686 0.333 0.667 0.364 18 Col,eyoung 0.682 0.333 0.500 0.407 19 Mon,alou 0.675 0.371 0.600 0.389 20 Cin,milligan 0.659 0.333 0.375 0.515 21 Phi,dykstra 0.646 0.214 0.571 0.405 22 SnF,bonds 0.624 0.280 0.680 0.333 22 Flo,conine 0.624 0.393 0.393 0.469 24 SnD,plantier 0.603 0.286 0.571 0.375 25 Hou,gonzalez 0.596 0.296 0.667 0.296 26 Hou,anthony 0.594 0.320 0.480 0.414 27 Col,cole 0.579 0.318 0.409 0.400 28 Atl,sanders 0.576 0.357 0.643 0.357 29 Mon,berry 0.566 0.273 0.273 0.500 30 Cub,sosa 0.558 0.303 0.545 0.343 31 StL,jefferies 0.551 0.269 0.692 0.296 32 Pit,vanslyke 0.549 0.296 0.444 0.387 33 *Montreal 0.548 0.312 0.490 0.367 34 Los,butler 0.545 0.296 0.333 0.457 35 Mon,grissom 0.542 0.333 0.455 0.371 36 Pit,king 0.536 0.308 0.346 0.438 37 SnD,gwynn 0.533 0.280 0.400 0.379 38 Pit,merced 0.532 0.300 0.400 0.391 39 NYM,murray 0.521 0.308 0.462 0.357 40 StL,gilkey 0.514 0.312 0.438 0.353 41 NYM,bonilla 0.507 0.292 0.417 0.370 42 SnD,walters 0.501 0.300 0.500 0.333 43 Cub,wilson 0.497 0.323 0.452 0.344 44 Flo,weiss 0.492 0.261 0.348 0.433 45 *Philadelphia 0.487 0.243 0.431 0.348 46 Atl,justice 0.480 0.207 0.448 0.361 47 *Pittsburgh 0.479 0.292 0.428 0.351 48 StL,osmith 0.476 0.310 0.448 0.355 49 Phi,incaviglia 0.473 0.250 0.500 0.308 50 Pit,young 0.470 0.286 0.500 0.310 51 *StLouis 0.467 0.275 0.445 0.344 52 *Colorado 0.459 0.287 0.426 0.327 53 NYM,hundley 0.458 0.300 0.450 0.333 54 NYM,orsulak 0.454 0.357 0.429 0.400 55 SnF,benjamin 0.440 0.200 0.500 0.273 56 Atl,gant 0.438 0.214 0.464 0.333 56 *NYMets 0.438 0.261 0.345 0.356 58 *Houston 0.436 0.260 0.415 0.318 59 Mon,pitcher 0.434 0.312 0.375 0.353 60 Phi,morandini 0.433 0.240 0.360 0.321 61 Hou,cedeno 0.427 0.280 0.440 0.308 62 Cin,sabo 0.423 0.226 0.452 0.273 63 SnF,manwaring 0.413 0.261 0.435 0.292 64 *SnFrancisco 0.412 0.253 0.396 0.315 65 Atl,blauser 0.409 0.276 0.310 0.364 66 SnF,thompson 0.408 0.278 0.389 0.316 66 Hou,caminiti 0.408 0.259 0.481 0.286 68 Flo,barberie 0.405 0.267 0.267 0.371 69 Mon,cordero 0.400 0.276 0.345 0.323 70 SnD,sheffield 0.397 0.241 0.448 0.267 71 Los,karros 0.392 0.259 0.296 0.355 72 SnF,williams 0.391 0.226 0.452 0.250 72 SnD,mcgriff 0.391 0.192 0.385 0.276 74 Flo,destrade 0.390 0.267 0.333 0.333 75 Col,girardi 0.388 0.238 0.381 0.304 76 Atl,bream 0.386 0.182 0.409 0.250 77 Mon,wood 0.385 0.200 0.300 0.333 78 Flo,santiago 0.384 0.200 0.360 0.286 79 Phi,thompson 0.383 0.227 0.273 0.320 80 SnF,clayton 0.382 0.345 0.379 0.345 80 Los,piazza 0.382 0.304 0.391 0.333 82 SnD,bell 0.378 0.273 0.364 0.304 83 Los,wallach 0.374 0.200 0.400 0.273 84 Cin,larkin 0.367 0.281 0.281 0.361 85 Pit,garcia 0.366 0.273 0.318 0.304 85 *Cincinnati 0.366 0.256 0.319 0.326 87 NYM,coleman 0.363 0.259 0.259 0.310 88 NYM,kent 0.362 0.190 0.286 0.320 89 StL,whiten 0.361 0.240 0.360 0.321 90 Cin,roberts 0.359 0.278 0.278 0.333 90 *Cubs 0.359 0.236 0.366 0.277 92 SnF,lewis 0.354 0.227 0.364 0.261 92 Hou,finley 0.354 0.214 0.250 0.312 92 Col,clark 0.354 0.250 0.350 0.286 95 Los,pitcher 0.350 0.286 0.357 0.286 95 *SnDiego 0.350 0.219 0.357 0.268 97 Atl,lemke 0.345 0.200 0.240 0.333 98 *LosAngeles 0.339 0.221 0.275 0.311 99 SnF,mcgee 0.335 0.267 0.300 0.333 99 *Atlanta 0.335 0.199 0.308 0.287 101 Cin,sanders 0.334 0.267 0.333 0.290 101 Cin,oliver 0.334 0.208 0.208 0.345 103 SnD,gardner 0.332 0.238 0.333 0.273 103 Los,reed 0.332 0.276 0.276 0.323 105 Phi,hollins 0.327 0.226 0.290 0.294 106 *Florida 0.326 0.226 0.268 0.311 107 Los,davis 0.325 0.188 0.219 0.278 108 Atl,pendleton 0.322 0.212 0.273 0.297 109 SnF,clark 0.316 0.161 0.290 0.257 110 Los,strawberry 0.314 0.111 0.185 0.314 110 Hou,biggio 0.314 0.179 0.214 0.303 112 Phi,bell 0.304 0.182 0.364 0.217 113 Flo,magadan 0.303 0.182 0.182 0.357 114 StL,pagnozzi 0.299 0.158 0.316 0.238 115 Pit,martin 0.295 0.167 0.417 0.167 115 Col,bichette 0.295 0.222 0.389 0.222 117 Hou,taubensee 0.294 0.190 0.333 0.227 118 Mon,bolick 0.292 0.250 0.312 0.250 119 Flo,pose 0.291 0.258 0.323 0.303 120 Mon,cianfrocco 0.287 0.188 0.375 0.188 121 NYM,johnson 0.274 0.136 0.136 0.296 122 Cin,kelly 0.272 0.250 0.333 0.270 123 Atl,nixon 0.256 0.185 0.222 0.241 124 NYM,pitcher 0.255 0.167 0.250 0.231 125 Pit,pitcher 0.250 0.222 0.278 0.222 126 Cub,buechle 0.231 0.154 0.192 0.241 127 StL,lankford 0.225 0.133 0.133 0.316 128 Atl,olson 0.224 0.150 0.150 0.261 129 Cub,vizcaino 0.217 0.148 0.259 0.179 130 Cub,sanchez 0.212 0.188 0.219 0.212 131 Phi,duncan 0.202 0.214 0.214 0.214 132 Los,offerman 0.198 0.182 0.182 0.250 133 SnF,pitcher 0.197 0.176 0.235 0.176 134 Mon,laker 0.183 0.133 0.267 0.133 135 Phi,chamberlain 0.180 0.111 0.111 0.200 136 SnD,pitcher 0.164 0.182 0.182 0.182 136 Atl,pitcher 0.164 0.182 0.182 0.182 138 Phi,pitcher 0.159 0.111 0.167 0.158 139 Cub,maldonado 0.150 0.105 0.158 0.150 140 Flo,felix 0.148 0.172 0.207 0.172 141 Cin,espy 0.141 0.100 0.100 0.182 142 StL,jordan 0.140 0.105 0.211 0.105 143 Atl,berryhill 0.128 0.091 0.182 0.091 144 Cub,pitcher 0.126 0.111 0.111 0.158 145 SnD,shipley 0.122 0.087 0.174 0.087 146 StL,pitcher 0.106 0.125 0.125 0.125 147 Hou,pitcher 0.053 0.067 0.067 0.067 147 Col,benavides 0.053 0.067 0.067 0.067 147 Cin,pitcher 0.053 0.067 0.067 0.067 150 Cub,wilkins 0.038 0.000 0.000 0.067 151 Flo,pitcher 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 151 Col,pitcher 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.74*1B + 1.28*2B + 1.64*3B + 2.25*HR + 0.53*BB + 0.34*(SB-2*CS) OPI = ---------------------------------------------------------------- AB - H BA = H / AB SLG = (H + 2B + 2*3B + 3*HR) / AB OBA = (H + BB) / (AB + BB)
Great speculation - I remember being proud on behalf of all the free world (you think that way when you are seven years old) that we had got there first. Now I'm almost sorry that it worked out that way. I guess the soviets would have taken the victory seriously too, and would almost certainly not have fallen victim to the complacency that overtook the US program. Perhaps stretching to match US efforts would have destabilized them sooner than it did in fact - and in the tradition of Marvel Comics 'What If', this destabilization in the Brezhnev era might have triggered the third world war. Hmm, maybe it was a giant leap after all.
gnuplot, etc. make it easy to plot real valued functions of 2 variables but I want to plot functions whose values are 2-vectors. I have been doing this by plotting arrays of arrows (complete with arrowheads) but before going further, I thought I would ask whether someone has already done the work. Any pointers?? thanx in advance
You realize, of course, that inevitably some anal retentive moron is going to come along and wag his fingers and his jowls in outrage that personal politics are more important than [SMCAP][BOLD][Font:God 999pt.]The Law[smcap][bold][font]. But that's irrelevant to the problem here. Windows came with my system, but on 5.25" disks. I hate using 5.25" disks, so I copied them over to high density 3.5"'s using xcopy. It worked fine. In fact, for a while I was changing configurations and whatnot so much that I decided to try putting them on the hard disk. Not only can you copy them over with one disk per directory, but if you want to, you can simply copy them all into one directory. Makes it a lot nicer when you're switching printer emulations around. Norton 6.0 I don't have much experience with, but when a friend's system crashed, we restored from a backup rather than from the originals, and it worked fine. This would imply that arj a -r norton c:\nu would create a workable backup, and if you did a full install the first time, you've got the whole thing. Never played with WP for Windows; I'm not too big of a fan of anything from Utah. Good luck.... Disclaimer: Don't Copy That Floppy! (tm) Just Say No! (r) Respect Your Elders! For The Wages Of Sin Is (sic) Death And A Hefty Legal Bill! DO YOU OFFEND? Rob
Called "gas". The balloons were in sufficiently low orbit that they experienced some air resistance. When they were finally punctured, this preasure (and the internal preasure that was needed to maintain a spherical shape against this resistance) caused them to catastrophically deflated. The large silvered shards that remained were easily visible for some time before reentry, though no longer useful as a passive transponder.
Peter, there's a radiosity package ahead. The only problem is: there are a few miles to sail ... ;-^ Let's be serious... I'm working on a radiosity package, written in C++. I would like to make it public domain. I'll announce it in c.g. the minute I finished it. That were the good news. The bad news: It'll take another 2 months (at least) to finish it. In the meantime you may have a look at the file Radiosity_code.tar.Z located at compute1.cc.ncsu.edu (there are some other locations; have a look at archie to get the nearest) Hope that'll help. Yours Stephan ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Stephan Amann SIG Computer Graphics, University of Berne, Switzerland amann@iam.unibe.ch Tel +41 31 65 46 79 Fax +41 31 65 39 65 Projects: Radiosity, Raytracing, Computer Graphics
I would like to apologize for the typos in the previous post. In retrospect I would also like to quote another source: Douglas C. Haldeman from his 1991 book _Homosexuality_ THERAPY INEFFECTIVE Recently the founders of yet another prominent "ex-gay" ministry, Exodus International, denounced their conversion therapy procedures as ineffective. Michael Busse and Gary Cooper, cofounders of Exodus International and lovers for 13 years, were involved with the organization from 1976 to 1979. The program was described by these men as "ineffective . . . not one person was healed." They stated that the program often exacerbated already prominent feelings of guilt and personal failure among the counselees; many were driven to suicidal thoughts as a result of the failed "reparative therapy." The previous article quoted in the last posting is from THE ADVOCATE, June 30, 1992 called "The Ex-Ex-Gay" by Robert Pela. Some personal thoughts: It is of no great astonishment that there is a concerted effort by a major portion of the Church to control and mandate change of a minority among its ranks. This was the momentum behind the Spanish Inquisition, only all they required was a confession of faith (after much torture) and then, to save their souls they would dispatch them to heaven through death. Even later, the Bible was used vigorously to defend slavery, oppression and segragation of African-Americans, even to the justification of lynchings. Today's scholars are just a bit more slick in their approach. The tool is still coersion, but now it is mostly by means of brainwashing and mind control, convincing people that they should see themselves as less than God sees them, then maintaining a cultic hold on them until it is felt thier mind-conditioning is complete. Sure, no one is "physically" forced to stay in this "reparative therapy" but sheer social pressure is enough for many to keep themselves in this new found bondage of self-hate. As an abolitionist I advocate the abolishment of oppression and persecution against gays in all facets of civil life. A person should be judged by the contibution, or non-contribution to the society in which they live, not by some high-brow standard of conformity imposed by those who haven';t a clue what is in their heart. For those who seek more information about Gays and groups that accept them please contact your nearest chapter of PFLAG (Parents & Friends of Lesbians And Gays) who will be more than happy to assist you. This is a group of people comprised of Gays, Lesbians and Bisexuals, their parents and friends who have formed a support group for help and understanding. Try talking to a parent of a gay son or daughter and learn some "first-hand" real life and loving understanding. God's love and understanding for Gay people is no less abundant.
Hi! I'm busy resurrecting some old machines (hey, they're cheap and they work :)) and would be grateful for any help with the following card - Magitronic - full length 8 bit memory only card. Has room for 8 rows of 256K dips for a total of 2MB RAM. Has an 8 position dip switch on it, presumably for addressing. Does any kind soul out there have any docs or drivers for this beast? I'd be disgustingly grateful. Thanks, Lee.
Precisely. There's no objective medicine; some people get marvellous results from alternative therapy, others only respond to traditional medicine. There's no objective physics; Einstein and Bohr have told us that. There's no objective reality. LSD should be sufficient to prove that. I consider it to be a useful fiction; an abstract ideal we can strive towards. Like an ideal gas or a light inextensible string, it doesn't actually exist; but we can talk about things as if they were like it, and not be too far wrong.
This is the third and final call for votes for the creation of the newsgroup misc.health.diabetes. A mass acknowledgement of valid votes received as of April 19th 14:00 GMT appears at the end of this posting. Please check the list to be sure that your vote has been registered. Read the instructions for voting carefully and follow them precisely to be certain that you place a proper vote. Instructions for voting: To place a vote FOR the creation of misc.health.diabetes, send an email message to yes@sun6850.nrl.navy.mil To place a vote AGAINST creation of misc.health.diabetes, send an email message to no@sun6850.nrl.navy.mil The contents of the message should contain the line "I vote for/against misc.health.diabetes as proposed". Email messages sent to the above addresses must constitute unambiguous and unconditional votes for/against newsgroup creation as proposed. Conditional votes will not be accepted. Only votes emailed to the above addresses will be counted; mailed replies to this posting will be returned. In the event that more than one vote is placed by an individual, only the most recent vote will be counted. Voting will continue until 23:59 GMT, 29 Apr 93. Votes will not be accepted after this date. Any administrative inquiries pertaining to this CFV may be made by email to swkirch@sun6850.nrl.navy.mil The proposed charter appears below. -------------------------- Charter: misc.health.diabetes unmoderated 1. The purpose of misc.health.diabetes is to provide a forum for the discussion of issues pertaining to diabetes management, i.e.: diet, activities, medicine schedules, blood glucose control, exercise, medical breakthroughs, etc. This group addresses the issues of management of both Type I (insulin dependent) and Type II (non-insulin dependent) diabetes. Both technical discussions and general support discussions relevant to diabetes are welcome. 2. Postings to misc.heath.diabetes are intended to be for discussion purposes only, and are in no way to be construed as medical advice. Diabetes is a serious medical condition requiring direct supervision by a primary health care physician. -----(end of charter)----- The following individuals have sent in valid votes: 9781BMU@VMS.CSD.MU.EDU Bill Satterlee a2wj@loki.cc.pdx.edu Jim Williams ac534@freenet.carleton.ca Colin Henein ad@cat.de Axel Dunkel al198723@academ07.mty.itesm.mx Jesus Eugenio S nchez Pe~a anugula@badlands.NoDak.edu RamaKrishna Reddy Anugula apps@sneaks.Kodak.com Robert W. Apps arperd00@mik.uky.edu alicia r perdue baind@gov.on.ca Dave Bain balamut@morris.hac.com Morris Balamut bch@Juliet.Caltech.Edu BGAINES@ollamh.ucd.ie Brian Gaines Bjorn.B.Larsen@delab.sintef.no bobw@hpsadwc.sad.hp.com Bob Waltenspiel bruce@uxb.liverpool.ac.uk bruce bspencer@binkley.cs.mcgill.ca Brian SPENCER cline@usceast.cs.scarolina.edu Ernest A. Cline coleman@twin.twinsun.com Mike Coleman compass-da.com!tomd@compass-da.com Thomas Donnelly csc@coast.ucsd.edu Charles Coughran curtech!sbs@unh.edu Stephanie Bradley-Swift debrum#m#_brenda@msgate.corp.apple.com DeBrum, Brenda dlb@fanny.wash.inmet.com David Barton dlg1@midway.uchicago.edu deborah lynn gillaspie dougb@comm.mot.com Douglas Bank ed@titipu.resun.com Edward Reid edmoore@hpvclc.vcd.hp.com Ed Moore ejo@kaja.gi.alaska.edu Eric J. Olson emcguire@intellection.com Ed McGuire ewc@hplb.hpl.hp.com Enrico Coiera feathr::bluejay@ampakz.enet.dec.com franklig@GAS.uug.Arizona.EDU Gregory C Franklin FSSPR@acad3.alaska.edu Hardcore Alaskan gabe@angus.mi.org Gabe Helou gasp@medg.lcs.mit.edu Isaac Kohane gasp@medg.lcs.mit.edu Isaac Kohane Geir.Millstein@TF.tele.no ggurman@cory.Berkeley.EDU Gail Gurman ggw@wolves.Durham.NC.US Gregory G. Woodbury greenlaw@oasys.dt.navy.mil Leila Thomas grm+@andrew.cmu.edu Gretchen Miller halderc@cs.rpi.edu HANDELAP%DUVM.BITNET@pucc.Princeton.EDU Phil Handel hansenr@ohsu.EDU hc@Nyongwa.cam.org hc heddings@chrisco.nrl.navy.mil Hubert Heddings herbison@lassie.ucx.lkg.dec.com B.J. hmpetro@mosaic.uncc.edu Herbert M Petro HOSCH2263@iscsvax.uni.edu hrubin@pop.stat.purdue.edu Herman Rubin HUDSOIB@AUDUCADM.DUC.AUBURN.EDU Ingrid B. Hudson huff@MCCLB0.MED.NYU.EDU Edward J. Huff huffman@ingres.com Gary Huffman HUYNH_1@ESTD.NRL.NAVY.MIL Minh Huynh ishbeld@cix.compulink.co.uk Ishbel Donkin James.Langdell@Eng.Sun.COM James Langdell jamyers@netcom.com John A. Myers jc@crosfield.co.uk jerry cullingford jesup@cbmvax.cbm.commodore.com Randell Jesup jjmorris@gandalf.rutgers.edu Joyce Morris joep@dap.csiro.au Joe Petranovic John.Burton@acenet.auburn.edu John E. Burton Jr. johncha@comm.mot.com JORGENSONKE@CC.UVCC.EDU jpsum00@mik.uky.edu joey p sum JTM@ucsfvm.ucsf.edu John Maynard julien@skcla.monsanto.com kaminski@netcom.com Peter Kaminski kerry@citr.uq.oz.au Kerry Raymond kieran@world.std.com Aaron L Dickey knauer@cs.uiuc.edu Rob Knauerhase kolar@spot.Colorado.EDU Jennifer Lynn Kolar kriguer@tcs.com Marc Kriguer lau@ai.sri.com Stephen Lau lee@hal.com Lee Boylan lmt6@po.cwru.edu lunie@Lehigh.EDU lusgr@chili.CC.Lehigh.EDU Stephen G. Roseman M.Beamish@ins.gu.edu.au Marilyn Beamish M.Rich@ens.gu.edu.au Maurice H. Rich. maas@cdfsga.fnal.gov Peter Maas macridis_g@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz Gerry Macridis markv@hpvcivm.vcd.hp.com Mark Vanderford MASCHLER@vms.huji.ac.il mcb@net.bio.net Michael C. Berch mcday@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu mcookson@flute.calpoly.edu mfc@isr.harvard.edu Mauricio F Contreras mg@wpi.edu Martha Gunnarson mhollowa@libserv1.ic.sunysb.edu Michael Holloway misha@abacus.concordia.ca MISHA GLOUBERMAN mjb@cs.brown.edu Manish Butte MOFLNGAN@vax1.tcd.ie muir@idiom.berkeley.ca.us David Muir Sharnoff Nancy.Block@Eng.Sun.COM Nancy Block ndallen@r-node.hub.org Nigel Allen nlr@B31.nei.nih.gov Rohrer, Nathan owens@cookiemonster.cc.buffalo.edu Bill Owens pams@hpfcmp.fc.hp.com Pam Sullivan papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca Paul Prescod paslowp@cs.rpi.edu pillinc@gov.on.ca Christopher Pilling pkane@cisco.com Peter Kane popelka@odysseus.uchicago.edu Glenn Popelka pulkka@cs.washington.edu Aaron Pulkka pwatkins@med.unc.edu Pat Watkins rbnsn@mosaic.shearson.com Ken Robinson rick@crick.ssctr.bcm.tmc.edu Richard H. Miller robyn@media.mit.edu Robyn Kozierok rolf@green.mathematik.uni-stuttgart.de Rolf Schreiber sageman@cup.portal.com sasjcs@unx.sas.com Joan Stout SCOTTJOR@delphi.com scrl@hplb.hpl.hp.com scs@vectis.demon.co.uk Stuart C. Squibb shan@techops.cray.com Sharan Kalwani sharen@iscnvx.lmsc.lockheed.com Sharen A. Rund shazam@unh.edu Matthew T Thompson shipman@csab.larc.nasa.gov Floyd S. Shipman shoppa@ERIN.CALTECH.EDU Tim Shoppa slillie@cs1.bradley.edu Susan Lillie steveo@world.std.com Steven W Orr surendar@ivy.WPI.EDU Surendar Chandra swkirch@sun6850.nrl.navy.mil Steven Kirchoefer S_FAGAN@twu.edu TARYN@ARIZVM1.ccit.arizona.edu Taryn L. Westergaard Thomas.E.Taylor@gagme.chi.il.us Thomas E Taylor tima@CFSMO.Honeywell.COM Timothy D Aanerud tsamuel%gollum@relay.nswc.navy.mil Tony Samuel U45301@UICVM.UIC.EDU M. Jacobs vstern@gte.com Vanessa Stern wahlgren@haida.van.wti.com James Wahlgren waterfal@pyrsea.sea.pyramid.com Douglas Waterfall weineja1@teomail.jhuapl.edu wgrant@informix.com William Grant YEAGER@mscf.med.upenn.edu yozzo@watson.ibm.com Ralph E. Yozzo Z919016@beach.utmb.edu Molly Hamilton
IMHO this whole discussion named "Motif looks like MS-Windogs" is totally stupid. The only thing remotely influenced here can be the Motif Window Manager, that features an arrangement of buttons and menus somewhat similiar to this of the MS-W windowmanaging agent, however its name is. But MWM is only a SMALL part of Motif, in fact, MWM and Motif can work without each other, and if one doesn't like MWMs outfit for some reason, he switches to another windowmanager. All this doesn't influence Motif, which is a toolkit of widgets to write applications, and this toolkit is IMHO uncomparable to MS-W, because it is much more wellorganized and features alot of goodies more than the MS-W interface. You cannot say "A Porsche looks like a VW Käfer" ONLY because they have the wheel and the gear at the same position. Motif and MS-W are complete different worlds, only one element of the Motif world has some gear and wheel at the same position as MS-W.
Other idea for old space crafts is as navigation beacons and such.. Why not?? If you can put them on "safe" "pause" mode.. why not have them be activated by a signal from a space craft (manned?) to act as a naviagtion beacon, to take a directional plot on??
[deletia] In the deletions somewhere, it mentioned something about chopping off of hands being a punishment for theft in Saudi Arabia. Assuming this is so (I wouldn't know), and assuming it is done by people fitting your requirement for "muslim" (which I find highly likely), then would you please try to convince Bobby Mozumder that muslims chop people's hands off? Come back when you've succeeded.
Then by that definition, I would be in a cell church only here at IU, not when the whole group gets together at Indianapolis (>950 every week in attendance).
I am unable to get my Gateway 486DX2/66 to run Windows in 1280x1024. I ordered a 2M ATI Ultra Pro, and I'm pretty sure the 2M is really there because I *can* select 1024x768x65536. But no matter what I do with the Flex program in the ATI's program group, 1280x1024 remains ghosted out. I have Windows 3.1, build 59 of the drivers, DOS 5.0. The drivers were installed by Gateway, not by me, so perhaps there's a file missing from the hard drive. It runs 1024x768 just fine. I did go into the Desktop window and select 1280x1024. Sometimes it refuses (ghosted out), other time it accepts it, but when I hit OK and re-enter Desktop, it's back to 1024x768. At no time does it unghost 1280x1024 in the main Flex window. Help!
True in theory. In practice? The technology of cellular phones will probably be spread spectrum and quite difficult to record the crypttext without the key. If the frequency path depends on they key, as I understand it to, it *could* be made effectively impossible to record. Once it hits land you can record it if you have telco access. The telco isn't supposed to give that without a warrant. That's the rule today. But even so, the evidence would not be admissible, I think, unless the judge so ordered. I think that even interception of the crypttext without a warrant would be illegal. Cops can't record today's plain cellular calls and then ask a judge, "Hey, can we have permission to listen to those tapes?" can they? Yes, that is a major concern, but I think that they think they can win just by having 99.5% of the USA use this system. They don't even have to care about the cautious .5% that's left. They don't catch the really smart crooks anyway. John Gotti, who would have to be retarded not to realize he was likely to be wiretapped, glibly chatted away on his tapped phone about murder plans. That's why he's in jail now. Hard to believe, but true. This scheme can succeed without laws forbidding more, which people would fight a lot harder. They like this enough that they are dropping the so called "Digital Telephony" proposal, according to rumours. However the meaning of that is complex, since they still want to get at the crypttext on telco systems, and that requires a bit of work.
We have received a number of requests for a reposting of the International Obfuscated C Code Contest rules and guidelines. Also some people requested that these rules be posted to a wider set of groups. Sorry for the cross posting. Some technical clarifications were made to the rules and guidelines. (See the diff marks at the right hand edge) The rules and guidelines for this year remain the same, so people who have already or are in the process of submitting entries for the 1993 IOCCC need not worry about these changes. chongo <Landon Curt Noll> /\cc/\ chongo@toad.com Larry Bassel lab@sun.com =-= #!/bin/sh # This is part 02 of a multipart archive # ============= mkentry.c ============== echo "x - extracting mkentry.c (Text)" sed 's/^X//' << 'SHAR_EOF' > mkentry.c && X/* @(#)mkentry.c 1.25 4/5/93 15:58:08 */ X/* X * Copyright (c) Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel, 1993. X * All Rights Reserved. Permission for personal, education or non-profit use X * is granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its X * entirety and remains unaltered. All other uses must receive prior X * permission in writing from both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel. X */ X/* X * mkentry - make an International Obfuscated C Code Contest entry X * X * usage: X * mkentry -r remarks -b build -p prog.c -o ioccc.entry X * X * -r remarks file with remarks about the entry X * -b build file containing how prog.c should be built X * -p prog.c the obfuscated program source file X * -o ioccc.entry ioccc entry output file X * X * compile by: X * cc mkentry.c -o mkentry X */ X/* X * Placed in the public domain by Landon Curt Noll, 1992. X * X * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED X * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF X * MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. X */ X/* X * WARNING: X * X * This program attempts to implement the IOCCC rules. Every attempt X * has been made to make sure that this program produces an entry that X * conforms to the contest rules. In all cases, where this program X * differs from the contest rules, the contest rules will be used. Be X * sure to check with the contest rules before submitting an entry. X * X * FOR MORE INFORMATION: X * X * You may contact the judges by sending Email to the following address: X * X * ...!{apple,pyramid,sun,uunet}!hoptoad!judges (not the address for X * judges@toad.com submitting entries) X * X * Questions and comments about the contest are welcome. X * X * The rules and the guidelines may (and often do) change from year to X * year. You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines X * prior to submitting entries. To obtain them, send Email to the address X * above and use the subject 'send rules'. X * X * One may obtain winners of previous contests (1984 to date), via ftp from: X * X * host: ftp.uu.net (192.48.96.9) X * user: anonymous X * pass: yourname@yourhost X * dir: ~/pub/ioccc X * X * As a last resort, previous winners may be obtained by sending Email X * to the above address. Please use the subject 'send YEAR winners', X * where YEAR is a single 4 digit year, a year range, or 'all'. X * X * Because contest rules change from year to year, one should only use this X * program for the year that it was intended. Be sure that the RULE_YEAR X * define below matches this current year. X */ X X#include <stdio.h> X#include <ctype.h> X#include <time.h> X#include <sys/types.h> X#include <sys/stat.h> X X/* logic */ X#ifndef TRUE X# define TRUE 1 X#endif /* TRUE */ X#ifndef FALSE X# define FALSE 0 X#endif /* FALSE */ X#define EOF_OK TRUE X#define EOF_NOT_OK FALSE X X/* global limits */ X#define RULE_YEAR 1993 /* NOTE: should match the current year */ X#define START_DATE "1Mar92 0:00 UTC" /* first confirmation received */ X#define MAX_COL 79 /* max column a line should hit */ X#define MAX_BUILD_SIZE 256 /* max how to build size */ X#define MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE 3217 /* max program source size */ X#define MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE2 1536 /* max program source size not counting X whitespace and {}; not followed by X whitespace or EOF */ X#define MAX_TITLE_LEN 12 /* max chars in the title */ X#define MAX_ENTRY_LEN 1 /* max length in the entry input line */ X#define MAX_ENTRY 8 /* max number of entries per person per year */ X#define MAX_FILE_LEN 1024 /* max filename length for a info file */ X X/* where to send entries */ X#define ENTRY_ADDR1 "...!{apple,pyramid,sun,uunet}!hoptoad!obfuscate" X#define ENTRY_ADDR2 "obfuscate@toad.com" X X/* uuencode process - assumes ASCII */ X#define UUENCODE(c) (encode_str[(int)(c)&0xff]) X#define UUENCODE_LEN 45 /* max uuencode chunk size */ X#define UUINFO_MODE 0444 /* mode of an info file's uuencode file */ X#define UUBUILD_MODE 0444 /* mode of the build file's uuencode file */ X#define UUBUILD_NAME "build" /* name for the build file's uuencode file */ X#define UUPROG_MODE 0444 /* mode of the program's uuencode file */ X#define UUPROG_NAME "prog.c" /* name for the program's uuencode file */ X X/* encode_str[(char)val] is the uuencoded character of val */ Xchar encode_str[256+1] = "`!\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_ !\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_ !\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_ !\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_"; X X/* global declarations */ Xchar *program; /* our name */ Xlong start_time; /* the startup time */ X X/* forward declarations */ Xvoid parse_args(); Xvoid usage(); XFILE *open_remark(); XFILE *open_build(); XFILE *open_program(); XFILE *open_output(); Xvoid output_entry(); Xvoid output_remark(); Xvoid output_author(); Xvoid output_info(); Xvoid output_build(); Xvoid output_program(); Xvoid output_end(); Xint get_line(); Xvoid output_till_dot(); Xint col_len(); Xvoid check_io(); Xvoid uuencode(); X Xmain(argc, argv) X int argc; /* arg count */ X char **argv; /* the args */ X{ X FILE *remark=NULL; /* open remarks stream */ X FILE *build=NULL; /* open build file stream */ X FILE *prog=NULL; /* open program stream */ X FILE *output=NULL; /* open output stream */ X char *rname=NULL; /* file with remarks about the entry */ X char *bname=NULL; /* file containing how prog.c should be built */ X char *pname=NULL; /* the obfuscated program source file */ X char *oname=NULL; /* ioccc entry output file */ X struct tm *tm; /* startup time structure */ X X /* X * check on the year X */ X start_time = time((long *)0); X tm = gmtime(&start_time); X if (tm->tm_year != RULE_YEAR-1900) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: WARNING: this program applies to %d, which may differ from %d\n\n", X argv[0], RULE_YEAR, 1900+tm->tm_year); X } X X /* X * parse the command line args X */ X parse_args(argc, argv, &rname, &bname, &pname, &oname); X X /* X * open/check the input and output files X * X * We open and truncate the output file first, in case it is the same X * as one of the input files. X */ X output = open_output(oname); X remark = open_remark(rname); X build = open_build(bname); X prog = open_program(pname); X if (output==NULL || remark==NULL || build==NULL || prog==NULL) { X exit(1); X } X X /* X * output each section X */ X output_entry(output, oname); X output_remark(output, oname, remark, rname); X output_author(output, oname); X output_info(output, oname); X output_build(output, oname, build, bname); X output_program(output, oname, prog, pname); X output_end(output, oname); X X /* X * flush the output X */ X if (fflush(output) == EOF) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: flush error in %s: ", program, oname); X perror(""); X exit(2); X } X X /* X * final words X */ X printf("\nYour entry can be found in %s. You should check this file\n", X oname); X printf("correct any problems and verify that the uudecode utility will\n"); X printf("correctly decode your build file and program.\n\n"); X printf("This program has been provided as a guide for submitters. In\n"); X printf("cases where it conflicts with the rules, the rules shall apply.\n"); X printf("It is your responsibility to ensure that your entry conforms to\n"); X printf("the current rules.\n\n"); X printf("Email your entries to:\n"); X printf("\t%s\n", ENTRY_ADDR1); X printf("\t%s\n\n", ENTRY_ADDR2); X printf("Please use the following subject when you Email your entry:\n"); X printf("\tioccc entry\n\n"); X /* all done */ X exit(0); X} X X/* X * parse_args - parse the command line args X * X * Given the command line args, this function parses them and sets the X * required name flags. This function will return only if the command X * line syntax is correct. X */ Xvoid Xparse_args(argc, argv, rname, bname, pname, oname) X int argc; /* arg count */ X char **argv; /* the args */ X char **rname; /* file with remarks about the entry */ X char **bname; /* file containing how prog.c should be built */ X char **pname; /* the obfuscated program source file */ X char **oname; /* ioccc entry output file */ X{ X char *optarg; /* -flag option operand */ X int flagname; /* the name of the -flag */ X int i; X X /* X * Not everyone has getopt, so we must parse args by hand. X */ X program = argv[0]; X for (i=1; i < argc; ++i) { X X /* determine the flagname */ X if (argv[i][0] != '-') { X usage(1); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } X flagname = (int)argv[i][1]; X X /* determine the flag's operand */ X if (flagname != '\0' && argv[i][2] != '\0') { X optarg = &argv[i][2]; X } else { X if (i+1 >= argc) { X usage(2); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } else { X optarg = argv[++i]; X } X } X X /* save the flag's operand in the correct global variable */ X switch (flagname) { X case 'r': X *rname = optarg; X break; X case 'b': X *bname = optarg; X break; X case 'p': X *pname = optarg; X break; X case 'o': X *oname = optarg; X break; X default: X usage(3); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } X } X X /* X * verify that we have all of the required flags X */ X if (*rname == NULL || *bname == NULL || *pname == NULL || *oname == NULL) { X usage(4); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } X return; X} X X/* X * usage - print a usage message and exit X * X * This function does not return. X */ Xvoid Xusage(exitval) X int exitval; /* exit with this value */ X{ X fprintf(stderr, X "usage: %s -r remarks -b build -p prog.c -o ioccc.entry\n\n", program); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-r remarks\tfile with remarks about the entry\n"); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-b build\tfile containing how prog.c should be built\n"); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-p prog.c\tthe obfuscated program source file\n"); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-o ioccc.entry\tioccc entry output file\n"); X exit(exitval); X} X X/* X * open_remark - open/check the remark file X * X * The remark file should be indented by 4 spaces, and should not extend X * beyond column MAX_COL. These are not requirements, so we only warn. X * X * This function returns NULL on I/O or format error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_remark(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X char buf[BUFSIZ+1]; /* input buffer */ X int toolong=0; /* number of lines that are too long */ X int non_indent=0; /* number of lines not indented by 4 spaces */ X X /* X * open the remark input file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "r"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open remark file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X X /* X * look at each line X */ X while (fgets(buf, BUFSIZ, stream) != NULL) { X X /* count lines that do not start with 4 spaces */ X if (buf[0] != '\n' && strncmp(buf, " ", 4) != 0) { X ++non_indent; X } X X /* count long lines */ X if (col_len(buf) > MAX_COL) { X /* found a line that is too long */ X ++toolong; X } X } X X /* watch for I/O errors */ X check_io(stream, filename, EOF_OK); X X /* note long lines if needed */ X if (toolong > 0) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: WARNING: %d line(s) from %s extend beyond the 80th column\n", X program, toolong, filename); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: This is ok, but it would be nice to avoid\n\n", X program); X } X X /* note non-indented lines, if needed */ X if (non_indent > 0) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: WARNING: %d line(s) from %s are not indented by 4 spaces\n", X program, non_indent, filename); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: This is ok, but it would be nice to avoid\n\n", X program); X } X X /* return the open file */ X rewind(stream); X return(stream); X} X X/* X * open_build - open/check the build file X * X * The how to build file must not be longer than MAX_BUILD_SIZE bytes. X * X * This function returns NULL on I/O or size error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_build(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X struct stat statbuf; /* the status of the open file */ X X /* X * open the how to build input file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "r"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open how to build file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X X /* X * determine the size of the file X */ X if (fstat(fileno(stream), &statbuf) < 0) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot stat how to build file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X if (statbuf.st_size > MAX_BUILD_SIZE) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: FATAL: the how to build file: %s, is %d bytes long\n", X program, filename, statbuf.st_size); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: it may not be longer than %d bytes\n", X program, MAX_BUILD_SIZE); X return(NULL); X } X X /* return the open file */ X return(stream); X} X X/* X * open_program - open/check the program source file X * X * The program source file must be <= 3217 bytes. The number of X * non-whitespace and }{; chars not followed by whitespace must X * be <= 1536 bytes. X * X * This function returns NULL on I/O or size error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_program(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X struct stat statbuf; /* the status of the open file */ X int count; /* special count size */ X int c; /* the character read */ X X /* X * open the program source input file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "r"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open program source file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X exit(7); X } X X /* X * determine the size of the file X */ X if (fstat(fileno(stream), &statbuf) < 0) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot stat program source file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X if (statbuf.st_size > MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: FATAL: the program source file: %s, is %d bytes long\n", X program, filename, statbuf.st_size); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: it may not be longer than %d bytes\n", X program, MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE); X return(NULL); X } X X /* X * count the non-whitespace, non {}; followed by whitespace chars X */ X count = 0; X c = 0; X while ((c=fgetc(stream)) != EOF) { X /* look at non-whitespace */ X if (!isascii(c) || !isspace(c)) { X switch (c) { X case '{': /* count if not followed by EOF or whitespace */ X case '}': X case ';': X /* peek at next char */ X c = fgetc(stream); X if (c != EOF && isascii(c) && !isspace(c)) { X /* not followed by whitespace or EOF, count it */ X ungetc(c, stream); X ++count; X } X break; X default: X ++count; X break; X } X } X } X X /* watch for I/O errors */ X check_io(stream, filename, EOF_OK); X X /* look at the special size */ X if (count > MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE2) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: FATAL: the number of bytes that are non-whitespace, and\n", X program); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: that are not '{', '}', ';' followed by whitespace\n", X program); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: or EOF must be <= %d bytes\n", X program, MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE2); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: in %s, %d bytes were found\n", X program, filename, count); X return(NULL); X } X X /* return the open file */ X rewind(stream); X return(stream); X} X X/* X * open_output - open/check the entry output file X * X * This function returns NULL on open error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_output(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X X /* X * open the ioccc entry output file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "w"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open ioccc entry file for output: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X exit(8); X } X X /* return the open file */ X return(stream); X} X X/* X * output_entry - output the ---entry--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the entry section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_entry(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X char title[MAX_TITLE_LEN+1+1]; /* the entry's title */ X char buf[MAX_COL+1+1]; /* I/O buffer */ X int entry=0; /* entry number */ X int ret; /* fields processed by fscanf */ X int ok_line=0; /* 0 => the line is not ok */ X char skip; /* input to skip */ X FILE *date_pipe; /* pipe to a date command */ X time_t epoch_sec; /* seconds since the epoch */ X char *p; X X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---entry---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the rule year X */ X fprintf(output, "rule:\t%d\n", RULE_YEAR); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* determine if this is a fix */ X printf("Is this a fix, update or resubmittion to a "); X printf("previous entry (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(buf, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(buf[0]=='y' || buf[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X if (buf[0] == 'y') { X fprintf(output, "fix:\ty\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X printf("\nBe sure that the title and entry number that you give\n"); X printf("are the same of as the entry you are replacing\n"); X } else { X fprintf(output, "fix:\tn\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X X /* X * write the title X */ X printf("\nYour title must match expression be a [a-zA-Z0-9_=] character\n"); X printf("followed by 0 to %d more [a-zA-Z0-9_=+-] characters.\n\n", X MAX_TITLE_LEN-1); X printf("It is suggested, but not required, that the title should\n"); X printf("incorporate your username; in the\n"); X printf("case of multiple authors, consider using parts of the usernames\n"); X printf("of the authors.\n\n"); X printf("enter your title: "); X do { X /* prompt and read a line */ X if ((ok_line = get_line(title, MAX_TITLE_LEN+1, MAX_COL-9)) <= 0) { X printf("\ntitle is too long, please re-enter: "); X continue; X } X X /* verify the pattern, not everyone has regexp, so do it by hand */ X if (!isascii((int)title[0]) || X !(isalnum((int)title[0]) || title[0] == '_' || title[0] == '=')) { X printf("\ninvalid first character in the title\n\n"); X printf("enter your title: "); X ok_line = 0; X } else { X for (p=(&title[1]); *p != '\0' && *p != '\n'; ++p) { X if (!isascii((int)*p) || X !(isalnum((int)*p) || X *p == '_' || *p == '=' || *p == '+' || *p == '-')) { X printf("\ninvalid character in the title\n\n"); X printf("enter your title: "); X ok_line = 0; X } X } X } X } while (ok_line <= 0); X fprintf(output, "title:\t%s", title); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the entry number X */ X printf("\nEach person may submit up to %d entries per year.\n\n", X MAX_ENTRY); X printf("enter an entry number from 0 to %d inclusive: ", MAX_ENTRY-1); X do { X /* get a valid input line */ X fflush(stdout); X ret = fscanf(stdin, "%d[\n]", &entry); X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X /* skip over input until newline is found */ X do { X skip = fgetc(stdin); X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X if (skip != '\n') { X /* bad text in input, invalidate entry number */ X entry = -1; X } X } while (skip != '\n'); X X /* check if we have a number, and if it is in range */ X if (ret != 1 || entry < 0 || entry > MAX_ENTRY-1) { X printf( X "\nThe entry number must be between 0 and %d inclusive\n\n", X MAX_ENTRY-1); X printf("enter the entry number: "); X } X } while (ret != 1 || entry < 0 || entry > MAX_ENTRY-1); X fprintf(output, "entry:\t%d\n", entry); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the submission date X */ X /* returns a newline */ X epoch_sec = time(NULL); X fprintf(output, "date:\t%s", asctime(gmtime(&epoch_sec))); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the OS/machine host information X */ X printf( X "\nEnter the machine(s) and OS(s) under which your entry was tested.\n"); X output_till_dot(output, oname, "host:"); X} X X/* X * output_remark - output the ---remark--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the entry section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_remark(output, oname, remark, rname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X FILE *remark; /* stream to the file containing remark text */ X char *rname; /* name of the remark file */ X{ X char buf[BUFSIZ+1]; /* input/output buffer */ X X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---remark---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * copy the remark file to the section X */ X while (fgets(buf, BUFSIZ, remark) != NULL) { X fputs(buf, output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X check_io(remark, rname, EOF_OK); X X /* be sure that the remark section ends with a newline */ X if (buf[strlen(buf)-1] != '\n') { X fputc('\n', output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X} X X/* X * output_author - output the ---author--- section X * X * Read the needed information from stdin, and write the author section. X * If multiple authors exist, multiple author sections will be written. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_author(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X char buf[MAX_COL+1+1]; /* I/O buffer */ X int more_auths; /* TRUE => more authors to note */ X int auth_cnt=0; /* number of authors processed */ X X /* X * prompt the user for the author section X */ X printf("\nEnter information about each author. If your entry is after\n"); X printf("%s and before the contest deadline, the judges\n", START_DATE); X printf("will attempt to Email back a confirmation to the first author\n"); X X /* X * place author information for each author in an individual section X */ X do { X X /* write the start of the section */ X fprintf(output, "---author---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* write the author */ X printf("\nAuthor #%d name: ", ++auth_cnt); X while (get_line(buf, MAX_COL+1, MAX_COL-9) <= 0) { X printf("\nname too long, please re-enter: "); X } X fprintf(output, "name:\t%s", buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* write the organization */ X printf("\nEnter the School/Company/Organization of author #%d\n", X auth_cnt); X printf("\nAuthor #%d org: ", auth_cnt); X while (get_line(buf, MAX_COL+1, MAX_COL-9) <= 0) { X printf("\nline too long, please re-enter: "); X } X fprintf(output, "org:\t%s", buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* write the address */ X printf( X "\nEnter the postal address for author #%d. Be sure to include\n", X auth_cnt); X printf("your country and do not include your name.\n"); X output_till_dot(output, oname, "addr:"); X X /* write the Email address */ X printf( X "\nEnter the Email address for author #%d. Use an address from\n", X auth_cnt); X printf( X "a registered domain or well known site. If you give several\n"); X printf("forms, list them one per line.\n"); X output_till_dot(output, oname, "email:"); X X /* write the anonymous status */ X printf("\nShould author #%d remain anonymous (enter y or n)? ", X auth_cnt); X while (get_line(buf, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(buf[0]=='y' || buf[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X fprintf(output, "anon:\t%s", buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* determine if there is another author */ X printf("\nIs there another author (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(buf, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(buf[0]=='y' || buf[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X if (buf[0] == 'y') { X more_auths = TRUE; X } else { X more_auths = FALSE; X } X } while (more_auths == TRUE); X return; X} X X/* X * output_info - output the ---info--- section(s) X * X * Read the needed information from stdin, and write the info section. X * If multiple info files exist, multiple info sections will be written. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_info(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X char infoname[MAX_FILE_LEN+1]; /* filename buffer */ X char yorn[1+1]; /* y or n answer */ X char *uuname; /* name to uuencode as */ X FILE *infile; /* info file stream */ X X /* X * prompt the user for info information X */ X printf("\nInfo files should be used only to supplement your entry.\n"); X printf("For example, info files may provide sample input or detailed\n"); X printf("information about your entry. Because they are supplemental,\n"); X printf("the entry should not require them to exist.\n\n"); X X /* X * while there is another info file to save, uuencode it X */ X printf("Do you have a info file to include (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(yorn, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(yorn[0]=='y' || yorn[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X while (yorn[0] == 'y') { X X /* read the filename */ X printf("\nEnter the info filename: "); X while (get_line(infoname, MAX_FILE_LEN+1, 0) <= 0) { X printf("\nInfo filename too long, please re-enter: "); X } X X /* compute the basename of the info filename */ X /* remove the trailing newline */ X uuname = &infoname[strlen(infoname)-1]; X *uuname = '\0'; X /* avoid rindex/shrrchr compat issues, do it by hand */ X for (--uuname; uuname > infoname; --uuname) { X if (*uuname == '/') { X ++uuname; X break; X } X } X X /* attempt to open the info file */ X infile = fopen(infoname, "r"); X if (infile == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "\n%s: cannot open info file: %s: ", X program, infoname); X perror(""); X continue; X } X X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---info---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* uuencode the info file */ X uuencode(output, oname, infile, infoname, UUINFO_MODE, uuname); X X printf("\nDo you have another info file to include (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(yorn, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(yorn[0]=='y' || yorn[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X }; X return; X} X X/* X * output_build - output the ---build--- section X * X * Read the needed information from stdin, and write the build section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_build(output, oname, build, bname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X FILE *build; /* open build file stream */ X char *bname; /* name of the build file */ X{ X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---build---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * uuencode the program file X */ X uuencode(output, oname, build, bname, UUBUILD_MODE, UUBUILD_NAME); X return; X} X X/* X * output_program - output the ---program--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the program section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_program(output, oname, prog, pname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X FILE *prog; /* open program stream */ X char *pname; /* name of program file */ X{ X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---program---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * uuencode the program file X */ X uuencode(output, oname, prog, pname, UUPROG_MODE, UUPROG_NAME); X return; X} X X/* X * output_end - output the ---end--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the 'end section'. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_end(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X /* X * write the final section terminator X */ X fprintf(output, "---end---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X return; X} X X/* X * get_line - get an answer from stdin X * X * This function will flush stdout, in case a prompt is pending, and X * read in the answer. X * X * This function returns 0 if the line is too long, of the length of the X * line (including the newline) of the line was ok. This function does X * not return if ERROR or EOF. X */ Xint Xget_line(buf, siz, maxcol) X char *buf; /* input buffer */ X int siz; /* length of input, including the newline */ X int maxcol; /* max col allowed, 0 => disable check */ X{ X int length; /* the length of the input line */ X X /* flush terminal output */ X fflush(stdout); X X /* read the line */ X if (fgets(buf, siz+1, stdin) == NULL) { X /* report the problem */ X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X } X X /* look for the newline */ X length = strlen(buf); X if (buf[length-1] != '\n') { X int eatchar; /* the char being eaten */ X X /* no newline found, line must be too long, eat the rest of the line */ X do { X eatchar = fgetc(stdin); X } while (eatchar != EOF && eatchar != '\n'); X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* report the situation */ X return 0; X } X X /* watch for long lines, if needed */ X if (maxcol > 0 && (length > maxcol || col_len(buf) > maxcol)) { X /* report the situation */ X return 0; X } X X /* return length */ X return length; X} X X/* X * output_till_dot - output a set of lines until '.' by itself is read X * X * This routine will read a set of lines until (but not including) X * a single line with '.' is read. The format of the output is: X * X * leader:\tfirst line X * \tnext line X * \tnext line X * ... X * X * This routine will not return if I/O error or EOF. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_till_dot(output, oname, leader) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X char *leader; /* the lead text for the first line */ X{ X char buf[BUFSIZ+1]; /* input buffer */ X int count; /* lines read */ X int done=FALSE; /* TRUE => finished reading input */ X X /* instruct the user on how to input */ X printf("\nTo end input, enter a line with a single period.\n"); X X /* read lines until '.' or EOF */ X count = 0; X while (!done) { X /* issue the prompt */ X printf("%s\t", (count>0) ? "" : leader); X fflush(stdout); X X /* get the line */ X if (get_line(buf, BUFSIZ, MAX_COL-9) <= 0) { X printf("\nline too long, please re-enter:\n\t"); X continue; X } X X /* note if '.' was read */ X if (strcmp(buf, ".\n") == 0) { X done = TRUE; X } X X /* write line if we read something */ X if (!done) { X fprintf(output, "%s\t%s", (count++>0) ? "" : leader, buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X } X X /* if no lines read, at least output something */ X if (count <= 0) { X fprintf(output, "%s\t.\n", leader); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X return; X} X X/* X * col_len - determine the highest that a string would reach X * X * Given a string, this routine returns that a string would reach X * if the string were printed at column 1. Tab stops are assumed X * to start at 9, 17, 25, 33, ... X */ Xint Xcol_len(string) X char *string; /* the string to examine */ X{ X int col; /* current column */ X char *p; /* current char */ X X /* scan the string */ X for (col=0, p=string; *p != '\0' && *p != '\n'; ++p) { X /* note the column shift */ X col = (*p=='\t') ? 1+((col+8)/8*8) : col+1; X } X if (*p == '\n') { X --col; X } X X /* return the highest column */ X return col; X} X X/* X * check_io - check for EOF or I/O error on a stream X * X * Does not return if EOF or I/O error. X */ Xvoid Xcheck_io(stream, name, eof_ok) X FILE *stream; /* the stream to check */ X char *name; /* the name of this stream */ X int eof_ok; /* EOF_OK or EOF_NOT_OK */ X{ X /* test for I/O error */ X if (ferror(stream)) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: error on %s: ", program, name); X perror(""); X exit(1); X X /* test for EOF */ X } else if (eof_ok == EOF_NOT_OK && feof(stream)) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: EOF on %s\n", program, name); X exit(1); X } X return; X} X X/* X * uuencode - uuencode a file X * X * Perform the uuencoding process identical to the process performed X * by the uuencode(1) utility. X * X * This routine implements the algorithm described in the uuencode(5) X * 4.3BSD Reno man page. X */ Xvoid Xuuencode(output, oname, infile, iname, umode, uname) X FILE *output; /* output file stream */ X char *oname; /* output filename */ X FILE *infile; /* input file stream */ X char *iname; /* input filename */ X int umode; /* the mode to put on the uuencode file */ X char *uname; /* name to put on the uuencode file */ X{ X char buf[UUENCODE_LEN+1]; /* the uuencode buffer */ X int read_len; /* actual number of chars read */ X int val; /* 6 bit chunk from buf */ X char filler='\0'; /* filler uuencode pad text */ X char *p; X X /* X * output the initial uuencode header X */ X fprintf(output, "begin %o %s\n", umode, uname); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * clear out the input buffer X */ X for (p=buf; p < &buf[sizeof(buf)/sizeof(buf[0])]; ++p) { X *p = '\0'; X } X X /* X * We will process UUENCODE_LEN chars at a time, forming X * a single output line each time. X */ X while ((read_len=fread(buf,sizeof(buf[0]),UUENCODE_LEN,infile)) > 0) { X X /* X * the first character is the length character X */ X fputc(UUENCODE(read_len), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * We will convert 24 bits at a time. Thus we will convert X * 3 sets of 8 bits into 4 sets of uuencoded 6 bits. X */ X for (p=buf; read_len>0; read_len-=3, p+=3) { X X /* bits 0 to 5 */ X val = (p[0]>>2)&0x3f; X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* bits 6 to 11 */ X val = ((p[0]<<4)&0x30) | ((p[1]>>4)&0x0f); X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* bits 12 to 17 */ X val = ((p[1]<<2)&0x3c) | ((p[2]>>6)&0x03); X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* bits 18 to 23 */ X val = p[2]&0x3f; X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X X /* end of UUENCODE_LEN line */ X fputc('\n', output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * clear out the input buffer (don't depend on bzero() or memset()) X */ X for (p=buf; p < &buf[sizeof(buf)/sizeof(buf[0])]; ++p) { X *p = '\0'; X } X } X X /* check the last read on the input file */ X check_io(infile, iname, EOF_OK); X X /* write end of uuencode file */ X fprintf(output, "%c\nend\n", UUENCODE(filler)); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X} SHAR_EOF chmod 0444 mkentry.c || echo "restore of mkentry.c failed" set `wc -c mkentry.c`;Wc_c=$1 if test "$Wc_c" != "34482"; then echo original size 34482, current size $Wc_c fi # ============= obfuscate.info ============== echo "x - extracting obfuscate.info (Text)" sed 's/^X//' << 'SHAR_EOF' > obfuscate.info && X1993 Obfuscated contest information X XCopyright (c) Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel, 1993. XAll Rights Reserved. Permission for personal, education or non-profit use is Xgranted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety Xand remains unaltered. All other uses must receive prior permission in writing Xfrom both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel. X XThe International Obfuscated C Code Contest (IOCCC), in the sprit of Xco-operation, is willing mention other programming contents, as space Xpermits. X XHow to have your contest included in this file: X X If you wish the IOCCC judges to include your contest in this file, X send a request to: X X judges@toad.com X X We request that contest descriptions be limited to 50 lines and to X not exceed 2500 bytes. We typically request that your contest X include a current description of the IOCCC. X X In order to be included in this file for given year, we must X receive a current description no EARLIER than Jan 1 00:00:00 UTC and X no LATER than Feb 15 00:00:00 UTC. Agreement to publish your X contest must also be obtained prior to Feb 15. Annual contests X that fail to submit a new entry will be dropped from this file. X XOfficial Disclaimer: (pardon the officialese) X X The contents noted below, other than the IOCCC, are not affiliated X with the IOCCC, nor are they endorsed by the IOCCC. We reserve the X right to refuse to print information about a given contest. X X The information below was provided by the particular contest X organizer(s) and printed by permission. Please contact the X contest organizer(s) directly regarding their contents. X XWith that official notice given, we present for your ENJOYMENT, the following Xinformation about contents: X X--------------------------------------------------------------------------- X X 10th International Obfuscated C Contest X X "The original obfuscated contest" X X Obfuscate: tr.v. -cated, -cating, -cates. 1. a. To render obscure. X b. To darken. 2. To confuse: Their emotions obfuscated X their judgment. [LLat. obfuscare, to darken : ob(intensive) + X Lat. fuscare, to darken < fuscus, dark.] -obfuscation n. X obfuscatory adj. X X GOALS OF THE CONTEST: X X * To write the most Obscure/Obfuscated C program under the rules below. X * To show the importance of programming style, in an ironic way. X * To stress C compilers with unusual code. X * To illustrate some of the subtleties of the C language. X * To provide a safe forum for poor C code. :-) X X The IOCCC is the grandfather of USENET programming contests. Since X 1984, this contest demonstrated that a program that simply works X correctly is not sufficient. The IOCCC has also done much to add X the arcane word 'obfuscated' back into the English language. X (see "The New Hacker's Dictionary" by Eric Raymond) X X You are strongly encouraged to read the new contest rules before X sending any entries. The rules, and sometimes the contest Email X address itself, change over time. A valid entry one year may X be rejected in a later year due to changes in the rules. The typical X start date for contests is in early March. Contest rules are normally not X finalized and posted until the beginning of the contest. The typical X closing date for contests are in early May. X X The rules and the guidelines may (and often do) change from year to X year. You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines X prior to submitting entries. To obtain them, send Email to the address X above and use the subject 'send rules'. X X One may obtain winners of previous contests (1984 to date), via ftp from: X X host: ftp.uu.net (192.48.96.9) X user: anonymous X pass: yourname@yourhost X dir: ~/pub/ioccc X X As a last resort, previous winners may be obtained by sending Email X to the above address. Please use the subject 'send YEAR winners', X where YEAR is a single 4 digit year, a year range, or 'all'. X X--------------------------------------------------------------------------- X X 0th International Obfuscated Perl Contest X By: Landon Noll & Larry Wall X X This content is being planned. Someday when Landon & Larry are not too X busy, they will actually get around to posting the first set of rules! X X but other existing projects got in the way. Hopefully X something will be developed after Nov 1993." X X--------------------------------------------------------------------------- X X 2nd International obFUsCaTeD POsTsCripT Contest X Jonathan Monsarrat (jgm@cs.brown.edu) X Alena Lacova (alena@nikhef.nl) X X A contest of programming skills and knowledge, exclusively for the X PostScript programming language. Its purpose: X X * To spread knowledge of PostScript and its details. X * To applaud those with the best tricks. X * To prove that humans can beat those damnable machine generators at X their own game by writing the most obscure and mysterious PostScript X programs ever. X X Winners will receive the fame and attention that goes with having their X program entry posted as a winner to programmers world-wide. X X The 1993 contest rules and results are available by ftp as X ``wilma.cs.brown.edu:pub/postscript/obfuscated*.shar'', or individually X in the obfuscated directory. The judges will post the 1994 rules X in November to comp.lang.postscript on Usenet, and other places. X Send questions to jgm@cs.brown.edu. X X Categories include: Best Obfuscated PostScript, Best Artwork, X Most Compact, Best Interactive Program, Most Useful, and X anything so unusual and creative that it deserves an award. X X The judges will choose the winners of each category. X X Alena Lacova is a system administrator at NIKHEF (Institute for High X Energy and Nuclear Physics) in the Netherlands. She is the author of X The PostScript Chaos Programs, which draw Julia sets, Mandelbrot sets X and other kinds of fractal functions. X X Jonathan Monsarrat is a graduate student from MIT and Brown University X in the U.S.A. He is the FAQ maintainer for the Usenet newsgroup X comp.lang.postscript and the author of The PostScript Zone and LameTeX. X . X SHAR_EOF chmod 0444 obfuscate.info || echo "restore of obfuscate.info failed" set `wc -c obfuscate.info`;Wc_c=$1 if test "$Wc_c" != "6418"; then echo original size 6418, current size $Wc_c fi exit 0
(drieux, just drieux) writes (about the armed services): Well, uh, actually I agree.
468DX2/66 EISA/VESA. Royal, among others, is celling such a system for $2010. -- Penio Penev x7423 (212)327-7423 (w) Internet: penev@venezia.rockefeller.edu
I use PlugIn, an enhancement to Program Manager. It allows (1) for sure, I don't know on (2). Anyway, give it a try. I like it a lot and registered it right away It can be found at ftp.cica.indiana.edu [129.79.20.84] in /pub/pc/win3/util/plugin13.zip -Bruce
I agree with you. Of cause I'll try to be a daemon :-)
Hi I have an Orchid Fahrenheit VLB with 2MB of DRAM. It is an S3 86c805 based card. I had a problem for a while after installing my second meg of DRAM for the video, and thanks to Orchid, I got a fix from their tech support (it was jumper settings not given in the ordinary manual. I assume it would come with memory ordered from them, so I guess I should be glad they didn't just say "Buy the memory from us" or something like that.) The one thing that I was puzzled by was why there was not a 1024x768x32k color mode on the thing, either in full screen or enlarged desktop mode. My ATI Ultra Plus can handle that, given 2MB of memory. All the 2MB buys you on the Fahrenheit is 1280x1024x256. Just ONE more mode. GEEZ. Had I known, I wouldn't have bothered. I asked them why, and all I got was "Your point is well taken, but Orchid's software developers are busy with other projects." So, to get to the point, finally, ARE there any s3 86c805 drivers out there that can handle high res hicolor modes? I'd love to get another card, but perhaps it will have to wait until the next generation of cards comes out, since this card came bundled with my system and it's not so easy to exchange these things unless they're broken. If you want these modes, steer away from Orchids s3 86c805 cards (ie. VLB or VA/VLB), at least until their developers are "less busy". If the magazines are to believed, I've only seen one s3 86c805 product thus far which can handle 1024x768x32k color (Genoa?), although evenn that might be a misprint. Please, if there are generic or semi-generic drivers out there, let me know where I can get them. 800x600x32k is OK, but I coulda gotten that with my ATI VGA Wonder XL.
There was a recession, and none of the potential entrants could raise any money. The race organizers were actually supposed to be handling part of the fundraising, but the less said about that the better.
The Davidians are a 60-year-old splinter from the Seventh Day Adventists, if that's the information you were looking for. --
#In <mcclaryC5snpq.KB1@netcom.com> mcclary@netcom.com (Michael McClary) # Just thought I'd clear up a few of the murky areas... # #>Actually, after surviving being driven out of Nauvoo, and later Carthage, #>the Mormons DID fortify Utah. They still arm themselves to "defend the #>faith", and stockpile food as well. They have been involved in quite a #>lot of illegal activity - including multiple (and often underage) wives #>for the leaders - a practice still in vogue with some splinters of their #>sect. The parallels between Koresh and Joseph Smith are striking. # ^^^^^^^^^^^^ By "they," you mean the leaders of the lds church? I grant you that when Joseph Smith was still alive, plenty of "accusations" were filed, most of which had little bearing with reality, as evidenced by various verdicts. I have studied lds history for 15 years now, and I have yet to see prove that the lds leadership was involved, in quote: "illegal activities." Plural marriage, yes, but your charge of "underage" wives sounds like it could have originated from a tabloid, and discredits the high moral standards which characterized these leaders and families, unlike, as it appears, those of David Koresh. # Joseph Smith started the sect. After he and his brother Hyram #were murdered in a Nauvoo, Il. jail cell, church membership split over #who to follow. Initially, Smith was considered a prophet (just like #Mohammed, a rather interesting parallel considering Muslims consider #Christ to be a prophet the same as Jews, I'm led to understand. Make #no mistake, this was no messiah we're talking about in Smith). The And neither did he claim he was. As the church reflects the moral aptitude of its leaders (and especially those of Joseph Smith), I have nothing but the highest respect for this inspired man, whose only "crime" was that he refused to deny that he had seen a vision... Many have tried to explain the "Smith phenomenon" away, but the bold presence of an 8.5 million member strong church stands as a witness that Joseph Smith's testimony had enough resilience and power to carry on the message. #thought at the time was that the gift of prophecy was to be handed #down father to son. After Joseph Smith died, his son was only #entering his teens. Brigham Young and a few others claimed to have #been bequeathed the gift and leadership prior to his death. The #Council of Twelve, the Church governing body, wasn't of much help #here, and this basic conflict is still a wedge between the sects. #Brigham Young took his followers to Salt Lake. The rest waited #for Smith Jr. to grow up enough to assume leadership. The other #claimants to the leadership were soon ignored, like Mike Dukakis. ;-) "The rest" were apostates and excommunicated members of the Church, while the great majority of the membership, the Twelve, and the various auxiliary organizations, chose to accept Brigham Young as the new prophet and leader of the Church. If you knew your lds scriptures and doctrine, you would have known that Brigham Young was the FIRST in line to fill the prophet Joseph Smith's vacancy: he was the senior apostle in the Quorum, and various comments made by Joseph indicated that it was Brigham who would lead the latter-day exodus to the West. Other rightful "heirs" were either dead (Hyrum Smith) or excommunicated (Oliver Cowdery), and while persecutions abounded and intensified, Joseph Smith had already given orders to look for a new place, an empty land beyond the boundaries of the United States (at that time). This "Rekhabite" principle (pseudographia) was well understood and antipated by the great majority of lds faithful, and was not questioned by them. Granted, a couple of "do-it-yourselfers" stayed behind, unwilling to sacrifice and to undertake the perilous journey to the unknown, but this also was necessary to separate the tares from the wheat. The church benefitted from this purification process: they became even more unified and willing to carry out their mission to the world. # Both sects practiced the "1-year food stockpile" doctrine, #and this being frontier and farming country most carried or at #least owned weapons. There is little evidence that they were a #militaristic sect, given that they tended to move on rather than #face large-scale opposition. Brigham Young, having suffered a #great deal getting to Salt Lake, seems to have been quite #justified in making military training a good thing. Remember, #this was far beyond where even the US Army went, and these people #had nobody to turn to save themselves. # # Just a little context to put this all in perspective. BTW, since when is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (one of the largest denominations in the country) a "sect"??? It didn't "splinter" from any other religion, as did say, the Southern Baptists or Methodists. #>So what did the Mormons get? It seems that J. Edgar Hoover was very #>impressed with the way they kept secrets. (They're pledged to defend #>secrets with their lives and atone for sin with blood. Many actually #>do - even to the point of suicide.) What a balloney. Suicide is sinful and against the law of God. I am not comfortable with this alleged "cosiness" with Mammon: I assure you that *many* among us reject this attitude categorically. Period. Our ONLY true allegiance is to our God and to the leaders which He has appointed to represent Him. In any regard, to read this TRASH (about suicide and "atone for sins with blood") is yet another insulting misrepresentation of what my church believes in and stands for... # # The RLDS, the Reorganized LDS, are friendly rivals of the LDS #and delight in telling stories about them, which generates quick retorts #from the LDS members and everybody has a grand time. At no time have #I ever even heard this hinted at. I'm taking it with a salt block. Make it a really big salt mountain with a glacier on top. #> So he hired virtually no one but #>Mormons, until the FBI was almost exclusively staffed by members of the #>Church of Later Day Saints. Though J. Edgar is finally gone, the FBI #>personnel (especially the field agents) are still heavily Mormon. #>I have often wondered how this might affect the FBI's treatment #>of religious organizations a Mormon would consider heretical. Preposterous. Even if this were true (reliable data, please), I am convinced that those officers would perform to the highest codes of honor and conduct (that's why they were selected for in the first place, remember?). Besides, one of our Articles of Faith STRONGLY states the principle of freedom of religion, and that all people are free to worship "*how*, *where*, or *what* they may." # If it's true, there would be little affect. LDS and RLDS #philosophy is that all other religions have strayed from the true #Church as set down by Jesus, but that God will judge each on his #own merits. In addition, the RLDS also contend (and the LDS may #as well) that ignorance of the True Way (tm) is an excuse. You #can only be condemned if you had been tought the way and rejected #it. In short, LDS and RLDS suffer everybody from Lutherans to #Buddhists, secure in the knowledge that though they are wrong they #will not be penalized for ignorance. It is more likely that Hoover #liked them because of their rather strict upbringings which forbade #alcohol, tobacco, hot drink (like coffee or tea), and the like. #These people are the "salt of the Earth" and as such are more #easily made to follow orders and have few vices to be used against them. A good explanation, I can accept that. You are right that lds people are sometimes a little too cosy with Mammon's "orders" (the late president Kimball, for example, was an exception with his strong opposition of the selection of the MX "Peace Keeper" missile maze in Utah). # That's my somewhat educated guess, anyway. Both sects have #splinter groups that don't mirror the masses, but these are small #and rare, and hardly worth noting their common ancestry. # # None of this has any relevance to guns, though. When a #man's religion is used to deny him the right of self-protection with #the weapons suitable for the job, he'll find an ally in me. # #< Dan Sorenson, DoD #1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu > #< ISU only censors what I read, not what I say. Don't blame them. > #< USENET: Post to exotic, distant machines. Meet exciting, > #< unusual people. And flame them. >
I agree. Adding layers of managers and bureaucrats simply eat up money that could be spent on those who actually are doing the work such as doctors and nurse, and supplies. The most efficient system is probably one that has limited management and a fixed budget such as England's or even Canada's. I'm afraid we are on the wrong track. The problem may be that the insurance lobby is too powerful. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
: }Xenophobia, both *de facto* and *de jure* as implemented : }in legal systems, is widespread, while the Bible, : }although not 100% egalitarian, specifically preaches : }kindness to the stranger, and emphasizes in the Book : }of Ruth, that a foreigner can join the nation and : }give rise to one of the great heroes of the nation. : : Clearly better than the alternative, but as an American what strikes : me as strange about this story is that it should have even been : considered an issue. Jim, There are a couple of things about your post and others in this thread that are a little confusing. An atheist is one for whom all things can be understood as processes of nature - exclusively. There is no need for any recourse to Divnity to describe or explain anything. There is no purpose or direction for any event beyond those required by physics, chemistry, biology, etc.; everything is random, nothing is determnined. This would also have to include human intelligence of course and all its products. There is nothing requiring that life evolve or that it acquire intelligence, it's just a happy accident. For an atheist, no event can be preferred to another or be said to have more or less value than another in any naturalistic sense, and no thought -about- an event can have value. The products of our intelligence are acquired from our environment, from teaching, training, observation and experience and are only significant to the individual mind wherein they reside. These mental processes and the images they produce for us are just electrical activity and nothing more; content is of no consequence. The human mind is as much a response to natural forces as water running down a hill. How then can an atheist judge value? What is the basis for criticizing the values ennumerated in the Bible or the purposes imputed to God? On what grounds can the the behavior of the reliogious be condemned? It seems that, in judging the values that motivate others to action, you have to have some standard against which conduct is measured, but what in nature can serve that purpose? What law of nature can you invoke to establish your values. Since every event is entirely and exclusively a physical event, what difference could it possibly make what -anyone- does, religious or otherwise, there can be no -meaning- or gradation of value. The only way an atheist can object to -any- behaviour is to admit that the objection is entirely subjective and that he(she) just doesn't like it - that's it. Any value judgement must be prefaced by the disclaimer that it is nothing more than a matter of personal opinion and carries no weight in any "absolute" sense. That you don't like what God told people to do says nothing about God or God's commands, it says only that there was an electrical event in your nervous system that created an emotional state that your mind coupled with a pre-existing thought-set to form that reaction. That your objections -seem- well founded is due to the way you've been conditioned; there is no "truth" content. The whole of your intellectual landscape is an illusion, a virtual reality. I didn't make these rules, it's inherent in naturalistic atheism and to be consistent, you have to accept the non-significance of any human thought, even your own. All of this being so, you have excluded yourself from any discussion of values, right, wrong, goood, evil, etc. and cannot participate. Your opinion about the Bible can have no weight whatsoever.
That is not necessarily unorthodox. When Christians call God 'Father', we are using a metaphor. The Bible in one place refers to God as being like a mother. God is neither a father nor a mother in the literal sense; God has some of the attributes of both; the father metaphor is usually used because (for most people at most times) it is the less misleading of the two possibilities.
Do they have a history of working in massage parlors, and telling co-workers there that they are prostitutes? Do they frequent truck stop parking lots at 4:00 AM, without ID on any sort?
.. and Chuck Yeager earlier flights with the X-1...
[stuff deleted] ^^ Just a note, even though the 805 can address 2 megs of dram, the Stealth 24 VLB can only handle 1 meg, unless Diamond has a newer design (or some special deal with Zeos).
[ Article crossposted from comp.speech,comp.sys.ibm.pc.soundcard,comp.os.linux ] [ Author was MARIO LAURETTI ] [ Posted on Mon, 5 Apr 1993 21:44:24 GMT ] I Have a Sound Blaster ver 1.5 When I try to install driver ver 1.5 (driver that comes with window 3.1) It tell me to upgrade my card first!!!???? Now, I have found new drivers from Creative labs. But I have problems installing it: After removing the vsbd.386 (old version that come in windows) After installing Creative Sound Blaster - MIDI Synthesizer I try to install Creative Sound Blaster 1.5 Wave... But when I am in the menu: Add Unlisted or Updated Driver and double click on this driver, I have this error: --------------------------Driver Error--------------------------- Cannot load Creative Sound Blaster 1.5 Wave and MIDI driver. The driver file may be missing. Try installing the driver again, or contact your system administrator. Yes, yes, yes, I have read the README.1st and try every thing! can somebody help me?? Mario Laureti
Here's a copy of a letter I'm e-mailing to the Slickster at his address of 75300.3115@compuserve.com: ____________________________________________________________________________ To: William J. Clinton President of the United States of America Mr. President: I am writing to express my utter outrage at the conduct of various government agencies in regards to the tragedy in Waco. I DEMAND the dismissal or resignation of Lloyd Bensen, Secretary of the Treasury, who bears responsibility for the initial helicopter and grenade attack by the ATF against the Branch Davidians, and of Janet Reno, who authorized the final assault on the very day that we were commemorating the Warsaw ghetto revolt. And I would truly appreciate it if you would make sure something like this never happens again on your watch. Respectfully yours, Kenneth D. Whitehead ___________________________________________________________________________ Get involved, gang. It's your Republic. Let's take it back.
Greetings baseballers, I have a choice of two more or less identical conferences to attend, one in Denver, and one in Dallas, both May 24-28. Could some kind Rockies or Rangers (they DO play in the Dallas area, right?) fans please let me know if there are home dates for that week. I'd love to catch a game.
Since someone brought up sports radio, howabout sportswriting??? (Anyone give an opinion) Which city do you think has the best sports coverage in terms of print media? (these are general questions) Is the Washington Post better than the Philadelphia Inquier or the NY Times? Howabout the Philadelphia Daily News compared to the New York Daily News?
ajteel@dendrite.cs.Colorado.EDU (A.J. Teel) writes... Wrong. It's possible to inherit a debt. See above. The Constitution is not a contract. It is a statute. Please, Mr. Teel, or anyone, show me one case where the U.S. Constitution, or any state constitution, is considered a contract. It is also designed to delineate the powers of the U.S. government. I can't wait. Daniel Reitman HOW NOT TO WRITE A DEED One case involved the construction of a conveyance to grantees "jointly, as tenants in common, with equal rights and interest in said land, and to the survivor thereof, in fee simple. . . . To Have and to Hold the same unto the said parties hereto, equally, jointly, as tenants in common, with equal rights and interest for the period or term of their lives, and to the survivor thereof at the death of the other."
Hmm, followup on my own posting... Well, who cares. First let me try to work out the facts that we get to know about the Clipper-Chip, from what Hellman and Denning were able to tell us: The chip itself is not confined to (digital) telephony, but performs general encryption in a symmetric manner. The chip supports CFB OFB ECB (and whatever the fourth mode of operation for DES is), the algorithm consists of 32 rounds of *whatever*, and takes 80-Bit keys. Input data seems to be 64 Bit? Yes. So if two people want secure communication (whatever that means when Clipper is involved) they have first to agree on ONE secret key. (Or is it one key per direction ?) They can exchange this key via DH-schemes or however. Somehow the two feed their so won secret key into the Clipper-chip which is now ready to work. The clipper chip carries an unique Serial-Number (30 Bit's), and 160 Key-Bits. These 160 key-bits seem to have been gained by encrypting the serial-number with 160 seed-bits. (The seed-bits seem not to be stored in the chip) At beginning of communication (and perhaps at certain invtervals whithin??) before sending the fist real 64-bit output of the first encryption the Clipper chip put's out packets (I guess 3) which represent the serial number, and the session key. This might look like X{ E[K; chipkeyK1+K2], serial number} where X is a transformation of these 3? Packets involving a family-key. This family(sp?)-key is equal for ALL chips. (X might be a simple XOR ???) After that, the (digital?) phone-call can be done as usual, every packet being encrypted and decrypted by Clipper. Denning describes how K1 and K2 shall be generated, using a seed of 160 Bit's. Now, leaving alone politics, which does not concern me as much as you, not being an American Citicien(tm) [ :-) ] , there are some weak points in this scheme, which might be exploited by several parties. As far as I know about the generation of K1,K2 ; S1 and S2 look like the obvious backdoor. They could be used to generate the chip-keys by knowing the serial-number (and also the family-key) of the chip. I really can't imagine why these seeds would be needed otherwise, as true random-sources for the generation of the K1,K2 can be bought for not to much money. Then, the escrows. Each of them will get 80 bit of a 160-Bit key. Security could (as little as existant) be maximized by giving them 160-bits each, which have to be xored together to give the K1,K2. Now let's simply assume the escrows are trustworthy, and can't be fooled by criminals or law enforchemnt agencies. (And there will be no quarrel between escrows and l.e.a which would hinder the l.e.a in doing their duties, and so on and so on) Once the keys are surrendered, the corresponding chip is compromised forever. Not very clever, IMHO [ :-)) ]. How about sending in the encrypted session-keys for each phone-call that the police (or whoever) want's to listen to? Escrows could then simply decode this session-key and send it back to police. (And would naturally not do this after the warrant has expired...) This would be a better technical solution, but I guess politics will not work that way. Apparently (as Miss Dennings stated) the only one performing actually decodes of intercepted messages shall be the FBI. Great. So local guys can not inter- cept (understand) your traffic anymore. Does this mean that the FBI monopolizes the right to do legal wiretaps ? (How is law over there, I have no idea who is allowed to tap, and who not) This certainly means that watched communi- cations will be routed automatically from the service-providing company to the FBI, if the communicaiton is a watched one. And this means as far as I understand it that the family-key has to be known by each switching- company, and those providing cellular-phone servies etcetc. So the family-key will not be very secret, and thus serial-numbers of calls will be readable by anybody who cares. I _like_ traffic-analysis! What do you guess, what happens, if you use the chip in ECB mode, and the first few packets of the chip are somehow lost or garbled? So the session key would not be actually broadcasted over the line? Hmmm. Shouldn't be so difficult to do *that* :^) And now a last point, for the other side. After all I have read and heard about Clipper (not the programming language for dBase, is it ? [:-)]) it seems to have many advantages, which shold not be overseen! Now an afterthought to your rights. Please note that I have no idea what I am talking about!!! From: grady@netcom.com (1016/2EF221) If this text is actually in your Bill of Rights, who can overrule this ? But: 'Freedom of speech' is not 'Secrecy of speech' Maybe you need to extend your Amendment #4 to cover information and communication too ? I am not very sure in what position your government actually is *legally* when it tries to ban cryptography (and arms) Amendment say you may have them, but not under what conditions. Hmm, tricky situation :-( Actually it will make not much sense to discuss that topic in sci.crypt... Discussion of technical details and vulnerabilites of the system are highly suggested and appreciated :-) Friendly greetings, Germano Caronni DISCLAIMER: Everything in here is derived from things I heard and read from other persons, so everything could be wrong. All opinions and thoughts in here are mine, and subject to change without further notification. No warranty, neither implicit not explicit etc. etc. etc. ad nauseam. p.s. Please don't ask me about political opinions, as I might not bother to re- ply. (For further information read the last line of P. Metzgers signature)
No. When the program is run, it loads 4 configuration files; autoexec.bat, config.sys, win.ini, and system.ini. There is no Open entry on the File menu. You can only edit these four files. If you need to edit some other program's .ini file, use Notepad or some other ASCII editor. I wonder whether Microsoft intended for sysedit to be used, or if it was just a holdover from the testing period and they forgot to take it out. The reason I think this is because there is absolutely no mention in the manuals about this program, and there is no online help for it (just an About entry under the File menu). The program looks like something that was intended for internal use only. It's kind of a shame, though. It would have made a nice multi-file replacement for Notepad.
The last I heard, the author was having some problems in his immediate family and had delayed the continuation of development for a time. This was some months ago. It's a shame. The driver is the best memory manager I have found ANYWHERE. It doesn't require V8086 mode (like QEMM) so it works with Ultima 7. It doesn't take ANY memory (runs, then exits). If only the EMM provider were a little faster and more stable. -- tmcreek@eos.ncsu.edu \ These views respresent no one. / Now you creek-tm@aza.csc.ncsu.edu \ Even I won't claim them. / are here
This is the crux of the argument (to me at least). Both the SDCN and the non-SDCN camps seem to agree on the fact that a catcher's defense is basically nonmeasurable at present. You can talk about how important calling a game is, or framing the pitches, or blocking balls in the dirt. But there is little or no way to tell exactly how various catcher's rank in "defense". Looking at Lopez specifically; is there any reason to suspect that he is a bad defensive catcher other then the fact that the Braves (or the media) has labeled him a bad defensive catcher? As far as I can tell he doesn't have any particular problem in his mechanics (such as Sasser). He might be a little rough around the edges in blocking the ball, or framing the pitch to get a good call but all he needs to clear that up is playing and practice time. I can't see how repetitions at AAA are any better then reps in the majors! All we're left with is the calling the game aspect. Olsen and Berryhill at always given credit for calling good games and helping the pitchering staff. But this is a reputation that is given to almost all veteran catchers. How is catching at AAA going to help Lopez learn the major league pitching staff? The only way any catcher is going to learn Tom Glavine's pitches is to catch Tom Glavine. Similarly, I wouldn't be supprised if the pitcher's claimed to prefer pitching to Olsen over pitching to Lopez because they are used to pitching to Olsen. But given time they will say they are comfortable with Lopez. Now, since Lopez can't learn how to handle the major league pitcher's while he's in AAA and since he doesn't have any glaring problem in his mechanics, what is he going to learn in AAA that he can't learn just as well while in the majors?
When I run our RS6000's "info" utility through a remote login shell (rlogin) from my Sun Sparc 1+, I can no longer type lower case in any of info's window prompt's. I thought the prob. may have been due to my Sun window mgr. (Openlook) being incompatible with the AIX Motif application but I tried it under TVTWM also. Same result. So this is presumably an X11 key definition problem between workstations - but my system admins. feign ignorance. What do I need to do the be able to type lower case into this remote AIX motif app. from within my local Openlook window manager? --
Last night I heard something about Bill Clinton's sister being involved in a marijuana bust, and the news being suppressed. I also heard something about her being an "ex-con". This source is not reliable, though. (It was a collage/booklet advertising a local band.) Can anyone on the net verify this or provide more details? I'm surprised I haven't seen anything about this in this newsgroup. Also, does anyone know what happened to the charges that Shalala was a regular pot smoker when she was in college? This ghastly accusation was reported on CNN Streamline News the day she was nominated, then I never heard anything about it again. It's almost enough to make me want to start an Act-Up type campaign to invade the privacy of closet smokers! (If only this type of publicity didn't violate people's rights. . . .) Jake.
Once again, Mark, you don't specify the means through which the government is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests. As a left-wing, big government, conventional liberal, I'm just as willing as you are to vote against anti-competitive regulations that favor auto dealers. But what I hear from libertarians is a desire to limit incumbents' terms, to weaken government by eliminating its power to enforce antitrust laws, and a desire to eliminate legislator's pay. Each strikes me as a particularly ineffective way to insure that auto dealers and other special interests cannot influence public policy. In fact, they seem clearly designed to accomplish the opposite. jsh
I hate to pour cold water on this, but currently seawater extracted uranium, even using the new, improved fiber absorbers from Japan, is about 20 times more expensive than uranium on the spot market. Uranium is *very* cheap right now, around $10/lb. Right now, there are mines closing because they can't compete with places like Cigar Lake in Canada (where the ore is so rich they present safety hazards to the mines, who work in shielded vehicles). Plenty of other sources (for example, uranium from phosphate processing) would come on line before uranium reached $200/lb. "Demand and supply balance will collapse" is nonsense. Supply and demand always balance; what changes is the price. Is uranium going to increase in price by a factor of 20 by the end of the century? Not bloody likely. New nuclear reactors are not being built at a sufficient rate. Uranium from seawater is interesting, but it's a long term project, or a project that the Japanese might justify on grounds of self-sufficiency.
I need advice with a situation which occurred between me and a physican which upset me. I saw this doctor for a problem with recurring pain. He suggested medication and a course of treatment, and told me that I need to call him 7 days after I begin the medication so that he may monitor its effectiveness, as well as my general health. I did exactly as he asked, and made the call (reaching his secretary). I explained to her that I was following up at the doctor's request, and that I was worried because the pain episodes were becoming more frequent and the medication did not seem effective. The doctor called me back, and his first words were, "Whatever you want, you'd better make it quick. I'm very busy and don't have time to chit- chat with you!" I told him I was simply following his instructions to call on the 7th day to status him, and that I was feeling worse. I then asked if perhaps there was a better time for us to talk when he had more time. He responded, "Just spit it out now because no time is a good time." (Said in a raised voice.) I started to feel upset and tried to explain quickly what was going on with my condition but my nervousness interfered with my choice of words and I kind of stuttered and then said "well, never mind" and he said he'll talk to various colleagues about other medications and he'll call me some other time. This doctor called me that evening and said because I didn't express myself well, he was confused about what I wanted. At this point I was pretty upset and I told him (in an amazingly polite voice considering how angry I felt) that his earlier manner had hurt my feelings. He told me that he just doesn't have time to "rap with patients" and thought that was what I wanted. I told him that to assume I was calling to "rap" was insulting, and said again that I was just following through on his orders. He responded that he resented the implication that he felt I was making that he was not interested in learning about what his patients have to say about their condition status. He then gave me this apology: "I am sorry that there was a miscommunication and you mistakenly thought I was insulting. I am not trying to insult you but I am not that knowledgeable about pain, and I don't have a lot of time to deal with that." He then told me to call him the next day for further instructions on how do deal with my pain and medication. I am still upset and have not yet called. My questions: (1) Should I continue to have this doctor manage my care? (2) Since I am in pain off and on, I realize that this may cause me to be more anxietous so am I perhaps over-reacting or overly sensitive? If this doctor refers me to his colleague who knows more about the type of pain I have, he still wants me to status him on my condition but now I am afraid to call him.
The Sophomore (Romans 1:22) The sophomore says, ``What is truth?'' and turns to bask in the admiration of his peers. How modern how daring how liberating How modern how daring how liberating they chant The sophomore, being American Doesn't know That his ``question'' modern skeptical cynical Was asked before, by a modern skeptical cynical urbane cosmopolitan Politician (appointed not elected) Who happened to live two thousand years ago. Like many politicians he cared Less about ideals than results Less about ends than means Less about anything than keeping his job (and his head). We might call him A bit brutal Though `firm' would be kinder (And no doubt Stalin, who let nobody go, laughed at his laxness) He didn't like his job; perhaps he no longer hoped for better (Nor feared worse, except regarding his head). And when these wily Jews With their heads-I-win, tails-you-lose conundrums Brought forth their madman, His first impulse was to play the Roman: ``I find nothing wrong with him, See to it yourselves.'' But when they mentioned `King' and `Caesar' His heart froze. If he killed their madman He'd start a riot and lose his job (and his head) If he saved the King of the Jews He'd piss off Caesar and lose his job (and his head) And when his wife told him to have Nothing to do with the righteous lout She didn't tell him anything He hadn't already figured out. So he punted. ``Not my jurisdiction! Take him to see Herod!'' (who just happened to be in town....) Herod appreciated the courtesy But wasn't worried And sent the sharp-tongued fool (Who suddenly didn't have much to say, funny how people lose it under pressure....) back In the attire proper to his Royal State. His ass is covered---if Herod has no problem, Caesar certainly won't. The fool can be king of whatever world he wants as long as it's not Caesar's. ``I'm letting him go,'' he said with a shout. (Looks like he'll last this one out....) The crowd's reaction puzzled him. They really wanted him dead. They didn't want the King of the Jews, They wanted Barabbas instead (And, as Josephus records, they got him) Oh well, he thought, They all look the same to me. And we'll get Barabbas next time. And if I can get them to say ``We have no king but Caesar!'' By killing a madman, Hell, I'll kill ten a day. And then Pilate had his fun A little joke Short To the point Trilingual And all this Went as it always does When someone gets caught In the gears of government And there's a scientific explanation (no doubt) For the superstitious rumors (persisting to this day) That it didn't all end With a tomb and a Roman squadron on guard. Our sophomore doesn't know about this He doesn't recognize his kindred spirit (Or truth either, as he admits). I guess we haven't learned much in two thousand years.
Does anyone know if there will be alternate games in cities where local broadcast rights are being protected? I'd really love to see the Bruins a couple times, and with this pro-Patrick bias shown by ESPN something tells me that I will have to wait until the conference finals to see them :-}. -JPC --
: > Sure it isn't mutually exclusive, but it lends weight to (i.e. increases : > notional running estimates of the posterior probability of) the : > atheist's pitch in the partition, and thus necessarily reduces the same : > quantity in the theist's pitch. This is because the `divine component' : > falls prey to Ockham's Razor, the phenomenon being satisfactorily : ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ : > explained without it, and there being no independent evidence of any : ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ : > such component. More detail in the next post. : > Occam's Razor is not a law of nature, it is way of analyzing an argument, even so, it interesting how often it's cited here and to what end. It seems odd that religion is simultaneously condemned as being primitive, simple-minded and unscientific, anti-intellectual and childish, and yet again condemned as being too complex (Occam's razor), the scientific explanation of things being much more straightforeward and, apparently, simpler. Which is it to be - which is the "non-essential", and how do you know? Considering that even scientists don't fully comprehend science due to its complexity and diversity. Maybe William of Occam has performed a lobotomy, kept the frontal lobe and thrown everything else away ... This is all very confusing, I'm sure one of you will straighten me out tough.
Still mastering the language, eh? Notice the use of "apparently". as if I'm not denying that at all. But every day is another chance for a good ending, why push it? Mr. Roby, you are going to die, anyway, why not today? Every moment of life is precious. devotion You No, you are the heartless "bleeding heart". A flaming liberal who "cares deeply", who "feels your pain". You have continually raised this issue, without any understanding of the bonds between parent and child. It is not easy to say a final goodbye to your children, I do not think I could do it, either. If that makes me heartless, so be it. How many children do you have? I have three. It just makes me sad. I never claimed Koresh was an angel. I made the same authority worshiper point about you a few lines back. And once again, Jonestown, however sick it was, was doing OK, until "the Authorities" showed up and pushed a fragile person over the edge. A bull in a china shop. affair Nope, the constitution in total is, for me. If you think the RKBA is all I'm about, you misjudge me. Jim -- jmd@handheld.com
Note that TEMPEST is the name of the shielding standard. TEMPEST is not the name of the surveillance technique.
I am sure that Mike is correct on this point. I am also pretty sure that administering "truth serum" would be ruled a violation of your right not to incriminate yourself. But, what is the salient difference? Both drawing blood and injecting "truth serum" incapacitate you for a while, but do no permanent damage. Is it simply that we have come to view one as acceptable, while the other is viewed as a fundamental violation of one's rights? If this is the case, how do we expand the protections of the 5th amendment to incorporate new technologies without the results being a hodgepodge of different judges personal opinions?
Here are some notes about what the church is to be like and some helpful ideas about how to choose a church: Colossians 1:15-18 A. Jesus is the head of the body, the church B. You cannot say "yes" to Jesus, but "no" to the church Ephesians 2:19-22 A. The church is the family of God B. The church is based on the Word of God only Cornerstone=Christ Foundation= Apostles=New Testament Prophets=Old Testament (see Revelation 21:9-14) 1 Corinthians 12:12-13 A. Baptism is when we become a member of the church As for the question of denominations: A. The Bible teaches that there is only ONE church from Ephesians 4:4-6, Romans 12:4-5, 1 Corinthians 12:12-13 B. 1 Corinthians 1:10-13 says that there should be no divisions in the church. There should be no following of personalities in the church (and in time, their writings) C. There are so many churches today because of a problem. 2 Timothy 4:1-4 says that people will turn away from the truth and try to find a church that teaches a doctrine that suits their lifestyle Hebrews 10:24-25 A. Do not miss church B. Purpose is to encourage each other, so we will remain faithful. Involved on a relationship level in the church C. Must come to ALL services Another verse which is helpful is Hebrews 3:12-15. The church should be encouraging daily, as it is their duty to do. Of course, more standards apply: 1 Timothy 4:16 People in the church should be watching their lives and doctrines to make sure they both live up to the Word entirely (ie, disciples). Acts 17:10-12 The pastor does not come close to the Apostle Paul (natural conclusion since the Apostle Paul talked with Jesus directly face to face), so if the Bereans, who were considered noble, didn't take Paul at his word but checked out what he said with Scripture to verify his statements, then church members are to do the same and verify the pastor's statements. If they are not verifiable or valid in light of other verses, then that group should be avoided as a church (would've made a wonderful suggestion to the Waco group, especially in light of Matthew 24).
Sorry to disappoint you but the Red Wings earned the victory...easily. I watched most of the game on ESPN (as soon as I realized that they were televising the game which was at the beginning of the second). The Maple Leafs were flat. Very flat. Meanwhile, the Red Wings were skating very freely and dictating the pace of the game. I didn't detect any bad penalty calls (Van Hellemond did his usual good job). Toronto looked like how I expected them to for their first playoff game in a few years -- nervous. For the Leafs sake, I hope they can rid themselves of the butterflies for game 2. If game 1 is indicative of the series, it's gonna go quick.
Date: 19 Apr 93 19:57:21 GMT From: jhart@agora.rain.com (Jim Hart) "Simply?" "Everyone" should have this attitude? The only people who can have this attitude are the most hard-core computer hackers, who never make phone calls away from their computer
:What happened in Waco is not the fault of the BATF. If they would of :had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the : :With the WoD and the increased crime in the streets the BATF is needed :more now then ever. If they blast away a few good fokes then that is : :With the arms build up in Waco they needed to hit that compound with :mega fire power. They could of gone in there blasting and killed a few I hope this is a joke... if not, here's my response: The BATF has a history of no-knock raids with poor evidence, often resulting in innocent people being killed or suffering injury to person or property. I will NOT support the BATF until they clean up their act... Maybe... As to equipment, the BATF has damn near anything it wants... Their faults were in intelligence (military and civilian definitions apply), tactics (attacking during DAYLIGHT??), methodology (the FBI stated that it is against government policy to assault a position where there are non-combatants/potential hostages without attempting negotiations first), and legality. The BATF's jurisdiction is TAXES on firearms and tobacco. They are a branch of the department of the treasury. They have very curiously backed away from their claims of illegal weaponry to push the child-abuse charges... The BATF has no jurisdiction over non-firearms/tobacco issues! And the charges of child-abuse had been investigated in the past with no violence and no validation. This was a clear case of first the BATF, then the FBI, having watched too many Rambo movies... My opinion is that the agent in charge should be charged with executing an illegal raid, criminal negligence, murder, civil rights violations, and breaking his/her oath to uphold and defend the Constitution of the US. The warrant should be unsealed to reveal to the public what justification the BATF thought it had in committing an armed assault on American citizens. And while on the issue of investigating this issue, the Randy Weaver case and the Johnny Lawmaster case should be investigated for BATF wrongdoing. James btw, if the BATF came busting in my windows with concussion grenades, you could damn well bet I would return fire to the utmost of my ability.
A reply to a post by kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (aka Nancy's Sweetheart): ?Human brains are infested with sin, and they can only be trusted ?in very limited circumstances. I would beg to differ with you here. The properly-formed conscience can be trusted virtually ALL the time. I am not so sure, though, about something so materialistic as the human brain. Does that mass of tissue possess anything trustworthy? Your observation would probably be valid if we were discussing the "mind" of an animal, but the human being is only half animal, as it were; and half spiritual. ?At the moment he stops speaking, and people start interpreting, the ?possibility of error appears. Did he mean that literally or not? We do ?not have any record that he elaborated on the words. Was he thinking of ?Tran- or Con- substatiation? He didn't say. We interpret this passage ?using our brains; we think and reason and draw conclusions. But we know ?that our brains are not perfect: our thinking often leads us wrong. (This ?is something that most of us have direct experience of. 8-) Now you have hit on the purpose of the Church. It is by necessity the infallible interpreter of divine revelation. Without the Church, Christianity would be nothing more than a bunch of little divisive sects. ?Unless you are infallible, there are very few things you can be certain ?of. To the extent that doctrines rely on fallible human thinking, they ?cannot be certain. This argument of yours regarding the certainty of an observation or a conclusion is not necessarily substantiated by experience. It reminds me of the theoretical physicist who said that you can never be certain of a measurment because the sensor interferes with the field you are trying to measure. Now, the experimental physicist will reply that although the measurement can never be made with absolute certainty, he is able to determine the certainty with which the measurement can be made, and this knowledge is often sufficient to render the measurement useful enough to allow evidence of the true condition of the field under observation. Therefore, although our minds are finite and susceptible to error, our competence in arriving at inductive insights gives confidence in our ability to distinguish what is true from what is not true, even in areas not subject to the experimental method. ?Darren F Provine / kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu ?"If any substantial number of [ talk.religion.misc ] readers read some ? Wittgenstein, 60% of the postings would disappear. (If they *understood* ? some Wittgenstein, 98% would disappear. :-))" -- Michael L Siemon This quote seems a little arrogant, don't you think? -- boundary
Did your boyfriend comment on the fact that Clement looks like a walking ad for Brillo pad hair replacement therapy? The guy's just a stuffed shirt who thinks he's the greatest hockey analyst since Howie Meeker (for gosh sakes). I'll take Schoenie any day. George
Well now, we can't judge death until we are dead right? So, why should we judge religion without having experienced it? People have said that religion is bad by any account, and that it is in no way useful, etc., but I don't totally agree with this. Of course, we cannot really say how the religious folk would act had they not been exposed to religion, but some people at least seemed to be helped in some ways by it. So basically, we can not judge whether religion is the right route for a given individual, or even for a general population. We can say that it is not best for us personally (at least, you can choose not to use religion--might be hard to try to find out its benefits, as you state above).
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ The "used to kill" is the heart of the misinformation. It's one of those technically accurate phrasings that conveys the wrong impression. What Mr. Quiqley is more than aware of, I'm sure, is that when people read this they think violent arguments where one member of the family grabs a gun and shoots another, thereby creating a tragic situation which could easily have been avoided had the gun not been there, or a tragic accident, especially involving a child. Unfortunately, that's not the way things stack up. The majority of that 43 "times" (37 I believe) are suicides. That is, someone intentionally took a firearm and shot themselves intending to kill themselves. And why it's popular to try and blame suicides on guns, the evidence doesn't support this. Internal studies, as well as comparative studies with other countries, indicate that cultural factors far outweigh whether a person will kill themselves or not. (Japan, for instance, has a slightly higher rate than the U.S. There people jump off buildings.) According to the National Crime Survey, 40% of violent crime is commited by "non-strangers," which mistakenly has been generalized regarding the King County study to mean, "Friends and family." That is, Mr. Quigley, and others who quote this statistic, are banking on the mental image that a "Friend, family member, or child," equates to a loving relationship, and that it was cut short in a moment of anger. Unfortunately, all too often husbands beat and kill wives, children assault parents, or vice-versa. Most rapes are commited by someone known to the victim, for instance. Essentially, that a gun was used against a "friend" or family member doesn't mean they weren't trying to hurt the other person. Crime is highest among poor urban families, and those are also the areas most "at risk" for family problems, especially violent ones. A son in a gang may not be as loving toward his parents if they disapprove than a suburban kid might. Finally, it hinges on the fallacy that a dead intruder is the only value of a self-defense firearm. Using the minimum figures I worked out using the NCS I got about an 80:1 ratio between deadly self-defenses (justifiable homicides) and with-gun self-defenses. Between the FBI Uniform Crime report and the NCS there's an enormous amount of data and anybody with the calculator can crunch the numbers. As such it is incorrect to assume that a dead body is the only valid means of determining the success of such a defense, since according to the NCS (which has been considered by many to seriously under-report defenses) there were far more successful with-gun defenses than intruders killed. Not it also confines itself to the home, where attack by a "friend or family member" is far, far more likely, and excludes any defense which occurs outside the home. (I believe a large number occur in businesses.) I have not seen the exact data for this, so I can't comment. I will point out Canada's and Japan's suicide rate as indications that culture far more than firearm availability affect suicide rates. There was also a comparative study between Canada (for what it's worth, considering the difficulty of comparing across cultural lines) published in the New England Journal of Medicine (I can get the exact cite if you need it) that concluded that restrictive firearm laws would not significantly impact the over-all suicide rate.
Tony I appreciate the narrow-mindedness of the view expressed in the text you quoted. I also appreciate your being amused by such determined ignorance. Without taking anything away from your mirth, I want to say that these views sadden me. I can only hope that that sort of narrow-mindedness will die with the generations that have promoted it. Teach your children well. <wet blanket mode off> Pax. John
This was known as *Journey to the Far Side of the Sun* in the United States and as *Doppelganger* in the U.K. It was produced by the great team of Gerry and Sylvia Anderson (whose science was usually a bit better than this). It may have been their first production using live actors-- they were better known for their technophilic puppet shows, such as *Supercar*, *Stingray*, and *Thunderbirds*. Later, they went on to do more live-action SF series: *UFO* and *Space: 1999*. The astronomy was lousy, but the lifting-body spacecraft, VTOL airliners, and mighty Portugese launch complex were *wonderful* to look at.
I agree very much. I have read almost every article written about the Glock, and IMO, it is probably the safest auto-loader made. It has the best safty of all, Jeff Cooper's First Rule, "Keep your finger OFF the trigger until you want to shoot." If everyone just observed this, there would be fewer "accidents". David N. Bixler Auburn University
From: Marc VanHeyningen <mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu> The majority of the discussion involving this "Clipper Chip" seems to pertain to the encryption of telephone conversations. Does anyone know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with analog signals? The language sort of suggests this, but it's hard to say. I'd lay a few bucks that its just data-in-data-out in parallel. I suspect to make it a phone you'd need a codec and speech compression. There would be a loss of bandwidth on the speech signal, which I suspect would scupper any of the suggestions I've seen here about putting a different encryption front end on it. There's no hint of any modulation scheme in the docs. I'm sure it's purely a digital chip. The back end will come later, but I'm *positive* it won't be left to the manufacturers - they all have to be the same modulation scheme to make it easy for the NSA to tap them. The only other possibility is that this is intended only for ISDN phones. (Puts a whole new spin on EFFs obsession about ISDN if true, bwahahaha! ;-) )
IDE does not do DMA. This is because it's like te PC AT hard disk interface. The controller moves a sector to some buffer memory on the controller card, then the CPU moves the data from the buffer to main memory where it's needed. If IDE doesn't work this way, then it's not compatible. Heck, if IDE used DMA, then you'd hear all kinds of complaints about ISA bus systems with more than 16M RAM not working with their IDE drives. 16M is the DMA addressing limit of the ISA bus, and if IDE did DMA there would be trouble. (BTW, there are DMA-enabling signals in the IDE cable spec, but the last report I heard was that they are never implemented, because it would require a different kind of IDE adapter and different drivers.)
Pray for the Wings to become lazy and overconfident...the Wings can only lose the series...Toronto cannot win it. Take away Doug Gilmour and the Leafs are an old Tampa Bay. The Leafs deserve a lot of credit for their diligent effort during the regular season...but if Detroit puts in a reasonable effort, this is not a contest.
I am looking for information on possible causes and long term effects of bone marrow sclerosis. I would also be thankful if anyone reading this newsgroup could list some recognized treatment centers if anything else than massive blood transfusion can be effective. If you plan on a "go to the library"-style reply, please be kind enough to add a list of suggested topics or readings: Medicine is not my field.
What _is_ your problem? Hite's post wasn't a flame. It was a correction of *your* error. YOUR reply was a flame. Not in the least.
Umm, perhaps you could explain what 'rights' we are talking about here ..
...the question is: for how long? Even if the FBI had done nothing, I guess the BDs would have committed suicide, but maybe not until hunger and thirst gave them the choice between sucide or surrender. The BDs was warned in beforehand about the FBI action. They HAD the chance to surrender and get a fair trial. No matter who started the fire, the BDs were responsible for 80+ peole dying. No one else.
I'm look for current patches for color xterm for X11R5 pl19 ro higher. Could someone please tell me where to get them for e-mail them to me. Thanks.
There are ALWAYS scalpers with tickets outside the Arena. You might have to pay a few bucks extra, but you can always find them. Look on the street under the message board, or out on the street in front of the Hyatt, or even around Gate 1. The later you buy them, the less money you'll pay, and during the regular season you could usually find some for near face value or below if you wait until game time. Might be better to pick them up earlier now, though.
I agree, we spend too much energy on the nonexistance of God. -- "Satan and the Angels do not have freewill. They do what god tells them to do. "
I posted this a couple of weeks ago, and it doesn't seem to have appeared on the newsgroup, and I haven't had a reply from the moderator. We were having intermittent problems with our mail at the time. Please excuse me if you have seen this before... Should Christians fight? Last week Alastair posted some questions about fighting, and whether there are such things as "justifiable wars". I have started looking into these things and have jotted down my findings as I go. I haven't answered all his questions yet, and I know what I have here is on a slightly different tack, but possibly I'll be able to get into it more deeply later, and post some more info soon. Our duty to our neighbour: Do good to all men (Gal 6:10) Love our neighbour as ourselves (Matt 22:39) Act the part of the good Samaritan (Luke 10) toward any who may be in trouble. We will therefore render every possible assistance to an injured man, and therefore should not be part of any organisation which causes people harm (even medical corps of the army etc). Christians are by faith "citizens of the commonwealth of Israel" (Ephesians 2:11-12), and also recognise that "God rules in the kingdoms of men", and therefore we should not be taking part in any of the struggles of those nations which we are not part of due to our faith. We are to be "strangers and pilgrims" amongst the nations, so we are just passing through, and not part of any nation or any national aspirations (this can also be applied to politics etc, but that's another story). We are not supposed to "strive" or "resist evil" (even "suffer yourselves to be defrauded") it is therefore incosistent for us to strive to assist in preserving a state which Christ will destroy when he returns to set up God's kingdom. Our duty to the state. "Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's and unto God the things which be God's" (Luke 20:25). "Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God; the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God" (Rom 13:1-2). "Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake; whether it be to king as supreme... for so is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men" (1 Pet 2:13-15) These scriptures make it clear that submission to the powers that be is a divine command, but it is equally clear from Acts 5:19-29 that when any ordinance of man runs counter to God's law, we must refuse submission to it. The reason for this is that we are God's "bond servants" and His service is our life's task. An example of the type of thing is in Col 3:22-23 where bondservants were to "work heartily as unto the Lord" - so also we should work as if our boss was God - i.e. "Pressed down, shaken together, and running over"... oops - a bit of a side track there... In the contests between the nations, we are on God's side - a side that is not fighting in the battle, but is "testifying" to the truth. When we believe in God and embrace His promises, we become "fellow citizens with the Saints and of the Household of God", and are no longer interested in associations of the world. Think of this in relation to unions etc as well. Paul tells us to "lay aside every weight" that we may run "the race that is set before us", and if we are wise, we will discard any association which would retard our progress - "Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier" (2 Tim 2:3-4). One of these entanglements he warns about is "be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers". One of the obvious applications of this is marriage with unbelievers, but it also covers things like business partnerships and any other position where we may form a close association with any person or persons not believing the truth about God (in this case the army). The principle comes from Deut 22:10 - remember that as well as them being different animals of different strengths, one was clean and one unclean under the law. These ideas are strongly stressed in 2 Cor 6:13-18 - I suggest you read this. The yoking also has another aspect - that of servitude, and Jesus says "take my yoke upon you", so we are then yoked with Christ and cannot be yoked with unbelievers. We have already seen that we are bondservants of Christ, and Paul says "become not ye the bondservants of men (1 Cor 7:23 RV). An example from the Old Testament: the question is asked in 2 Chr 19:2 "Shouldest thou help the ungodly...?". The situation here is a good example of what happens when you are yoked together with unbelievers. Jehoshaphat was lucky to escape with his life. Here are the facts: 1. He had made an affinity with Ahab, who had "sold himself to work wickedness before the Lord" (1 Kings 21:25). 2. When asked by Ahab to form a military alliance, he had agreed and said "I am as thou art, my people as thy people" (1 Kings 22:4) - an unequal yoking. 3. He sttod firm in refusing the advice of the false prophets and insisted on hearing the prophet of the Lord (trying to do the right thing), he found that he was yoked and therefore couldn't break away from the evil association he had made. God says to us "Come out from among them and be ye separate, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you and ye shall be my sons and daughters" (2 Cor 6:17). This is more or less what I have found out so far - I'm still looking into it, as I don't think I've answered all the questions raised by Alastair yet. Heres a summary and a few things to think about: The Christian in under command. Obedience to this command is an essential factor in his relationship with Christ (John 15:10,14). Total dedication to this course of action is required (Romans 12:1-2). Disobedience compromises the close relationship between Christ and his followers (1 Pet 2:7-8). We are to be separated to God (Rom 6:4). This involves a master-servant relationship (Rom 6:12,16). No man can serve two masters (Matt 6:24,13,14). All that is in the 'Kosmos' is lust and pride - quite opposed to Gos (1 John 2:16). Christs kingdom is not of this world (i.e. not worldly in nature) - if it was, his servants would fight to deliver him. If Christ is our master and he was not delivered by his servants because his kingdom was not of this world, then his servants cannot possibly fight for another master. Strangers and pilgrims have no rights, and we cannot swear allegiance to anyone but God. The servant of the Lord must not war but be gentle to all (2 Tim 2:24) - this does not just apply to war, but also to avoiding strife throughout our lives. There is a war to be waged, not with man's weapons (2 Cor 10:3-4), but with God's armour (Eph6:13-20). I'll probably post some more when I've had time to look into things a bit further.
Steve> Folks, Steve> I'm looking for a Public Domain X-Y plotting package for X. Steve> I need basic capabilities (axes, labels, log and linear, &c). Steve> It's hard to imagine that someone has not put such a thing Steve> together, so I'm hoping to avoid reinventing the wheel. Steve> Thanks for any leads! Steve> Steve Frysinger Your might take a look a PLPLOT. Version 4.99c (actually beta v5.0) can be found anonymous ftp from hagar.ph.utexas.edu, in the pub/plplot directory. --Mark ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ From the README file of version 4.99c: This is the PLPLOT distribution. PLPLOT is a scientific plotting package for many systems, small (micro) and large (super) alike. Despite its small size and quickness, it has enough power to satisfy most users, including: standard x-y plots, semilog plots, log-log plots, contour plots, 3D plots, mesh plots, bar charts and pie charts. Multiple graphs (of the same or different sizes) may be placed on a single page with multiple lines in each graph. Different line styles, widths and colors are supported. A virtually infinite number of distinct area fill patterns may be used. There are almost 1000 characters in the extended character set. This includes four different fonts, the Greek alphabet and a host of mathematical, musical, and other symbols. The fonts can be scaled to any size for various effects. Many different output device drivers are available (system dependent), including a portable metafile format and renderer. The PLPLOT package is freely distributable, but NOT in the public domain. The PLPLOT source code, except header files and those files explicitly granting permission, may not be used in a commercial software package without consent of the authors. You are allowed and encouraged to include the PLPLOT object library and header files in a commercial package provided that: (1) it is explicitly and prominently stated that the PLPLOT library is freely available, and (2) the full copyrights on the PLPLOT package be displayed somewhere in the documentation for the package. We welcome suggestions on how to improve this code, especially in the form of user-contributed enhancements or bug fixes. If PLPLOT is used in any published papers, please include an acknowledgment or citation of our work, which will help us to continue improving PLPLOT. Also, please remember that as PLPLOT is not a commercial product, we cannot be expected to offer the kind of support that a commercial product may. There is great interest in extending PLPLOT and fixing bugs, but the principal authors can only afford to work on it part time. Improvements will necessarily focus on those which help us get our work done. PLPLOT is written in C, enabling it to run on many platforms practically without modification. Fortran programs may use it transparently; stub routines are provided to handle the C<->Fortran interface without any modification of the user program. C programs are required to include the header file "plplot.h"; see the documentation for more details. The main documentation for PLPLOT is in the doc/ directory in the form of several TeX files; please consult this for additional information ('latex plotdoc'). Unfortunately documentation tends to lag actual improvements to the code, so don't be surprised if some known features are not explained there. Consult 'Changes.log' to see a list of recent changes. At present, PLPLOT is known to work on the following systems: Unix: SunOS A/IX HP-UX Unicos DG/UX Ultrix SysV Linux Amiga/Exec MS-DOS OS/2 NeXT For more information on how to get or use PLPLOT on your system, see: - appendices to the PLPLOT manual - system-specific documentation in the appropriate sys/<system> directory. To become a subscriber to the PLPLOT mailing list, send a request to plplot-request@dino.ph.utexas.edu. CREDITS ------- PLPLOT is the result of the effort of many people, so it is impractical to list all the contributors. Those currently supporting and otherwise responsible for the package in its present form include: Maurice LeBrun Please send all comments, flames, patches, etc, to me. I am responsible for all the PLPLOT kernel development as well as most of the work on the metafile, xwindow, xterm, postscript, tektronix, and Amiga drivers. EMAIL mjl@fusion.ph.utexas.edu USMAIL Dr. Maurice LeBrun Institute for Fusion Studies University of Texas Austin, TX 78712 Geoff Furnish Please send questions regarding the MS-DOS and OS/2 drivers to Geoff. EMAIL furnish@fusion.ph.utexas.edu USMAIL Geoff Furnish Institute for Fusion Studies University of Texas Austin, TX 78712 Tony Richardson Creator of PLPLOT 2.6b, 3.0 Please send questions regarding installation of PLPLOT on the NeXT to Tony. EMAIL amr@egr.duke.edu
Thanks for the many offers to review this book. If you received a review copy, please return it as soon as possible. I had a system crash and lost the list of people I sent it to! Thanks
Sorry, but olwm and tvtwm don't do it. They place the title at that position and the window at a position below it. This becomes a problem when you want a program to be able to save its current configuration and restore is later. Currently, my solution is: XCreateWindow(...); XSetWMProperties(..); XMapWindow(...); XFlush(...); XMoveWindow(...); It works with olwm, but is less than elegant. All this leaves me wondering if I'm overlooking something obvious. Richard. I know that the mwm has an resource to specify if positions are to be used for the border of a window or for the "user" window. Maybe other window managers have similar options. Another way to figure out the difference between the "user" window position and the window manager decoration window position is to subtract their positions. You just have to use XQueryTree and remember that the window manager decorations window is the parent of your window. Unfortunately, you can only figure out the decoration width and height after the window has been mapped this way.
Dear Rob, Sometimes I do come across condesending, and I am sorry I come across that way at times. Thank you for the reproach, I really do appreciate it. I'll try to get better. Rob, at the same time, I have also learned that some people respond to the gentle approach while others respond only at a harsh rebuke. Brian K., so far, only responds to the latter. And I am glad he responds at all. In both cases of approach, my intention is to be loving. I am making no excuse for myself if I am coming across condesending. I apologize for that. Rob, sometimes Brian K. comes across as honest. I know this. But Brian K. vasillates back and forth. One post looks honest; the next is an excuse. Now he wants me to explain the universe in 50 words or less. I think Brian Kendig is really trying but he is too comfortable with his set of excuses. I just want Brian K. to be honest with himself. If he really wants to know, he will ask questions and stop asserting irrelevant excuses which have nothing to do with my God. I wish Brian would read the Bible for himself and come to his own decisions without being sidetracked with the temptation to mock God. From my perspective Rob, when I look at Brian Kendig, I see a man standing out in the middle of a highway. Off into the distance I see a Mack truck heading right for him, but Brian K. is faced away from the oncoming truck. He doesn't see it. Here's is how I see the dialog: Me: "Brian K, please step aside before you get run over." BK: "There is no truck." Me: "Turn around at look." BK: "No." Me: "Look! You will be healthier if you do take a look at the oncoming truck." BK: "No. Explain to me why trucks exist." Me: "Turn around or you will run over." BK: "No. I won't because I like hiking and tomorrow is Tuesday." Me: "You blind fool! Why do you choose ignorance? You have nothing to lose if you look. But if do not look, you will certainly lose your life." I do not want to see you squashed all over the road. BK: "It is my life to lose. I rather not look. Besides, a truck running over me will not harm me." And by the way, I really have an open mind." So is my motivation to belittle Brian, or to love Brian the best I know how? I do not wish to single Brian Kendig out. Because millions if not billions of people fall into the same category. Perhaps all people fall have fallen into this category at one time in their lives. I have. I can now see the truck behind Brian. My hope is that Brian will look and will see the ramifications of the truck coming towards him. My hope is that Brian will want to step out of the way. My fear, though, is that Brian will instead choose to glue himself to the middle of the highway, where he will certainly get run over. But if he so chooses, he so chooses, and there is nothing I can do beyond that to change his mind. For it is his choice. But at this very moment, Brian hasn't gotten even that far. He is still at the point where he does not want to look. Sure he moves his eyeball to appease me, but his head will not turn around to see the entire picture. So far he is satisfied with his glimpse of the mountains off in the distance.
Really? I don't get it... Genesis first says that God created the earth, then the animals, then humans; then it turns around and says that humans were created before animals! How can you escape this contradiction?
Yes, I want to concentrate on other development issues - I've created graphics libraries before, it's too time consuming... life's too short! Thanks for the clarification... Before posting my original request I had looked into the Mac's 3D capabilities and dismissed them as low grade.
Does anyone out there have or know of, line drawing USA map? Thanks very much in advance, Hoi
Some variant is quite popular. This, and other arguments, are discussed in John Leslie Mackie's "The Miracle of Theism: arguments for and against the existence of God". Although Mackie ultimately sides with "against", his arguments are, I think, quite fair to both sides. Brief discussions can be found in the alt.atheism FAQs.
George. It's called a democracy. The majority rules. sorry. If ytou don't like it, I suggest you modify the constitution to include a constitutional right to Dark Skies. The theory of government here is that the majority rules, except in the nature of fundamental civil rights. If you really are annoyed, get some legislation to create a dark sky zone, where in all light emissions are protected in the zone. Kind of like the national radio quiet zone. Did you know about that? near teh Radio telescope observatory in West virginia, they have a 90?????? mile EMCON zone. Theoretically they can prevent you from running light AC motors, like air conditioners and Vacuums. In practice, they use it mostly to control large radio users.
Elevated levels of Glu and Asp in the blood are able to bypass the Blood-brain barrier through the circumventricular organs (or CVO), in particular the adeno and neurohypophysis (pituitary gland) areas. The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, and the median eminence regions are particularly effected. CVO areas are not subject to the blood-brain barrier. These areas control the release of gonadotropin, which controls the release and flux of steroids governing development, especially sexual development. Changes in adult rats, which are less sensitive to Glu than humans, have been observed: after ingesting Glu, on a chronic basis, cycles of several steroids are disrupted. Blood levels of somatostatin are significantly reduced, and cyclic release of steroids becomes flattened.
I did this. I use a relay (Radio Shack 4PDT) instead of a huge switch. This way, if the relay breaks, my drives will still work. It works fine, but you may still need to change the CMOS before the drive switch will work correctly for some programs. rp93
(deletion) Straw man. And you brought up leniency. Assuming that misjudgements are not correlated. (Deletion) Has been discussed here. Chapter and verse were cited, I assume that you weren't looking then. Let's be more exact, do you think it is not in the Quran?. And what would your consequences be when it it was shown to be in it? I have not claimed that. It is sufficient for the argument when there are a lot of male dominated societies that qualify as Machistic. Are you going to say that the situation of women is better in sufficeint areas of the Orient? (Deletion) You apparently have trouble reading things you don't like. The point was having sex the way one wishes being a strong desire. Marriage is a red herring. Tell me about homosexuals, for one. You simply ignore everything that doesn't fit into the world as you would like to have it.
Hey folks! Just moments ago, I uploaded the Bungee Jumper After Dark module that was widely talked about on here some time ago. It's at ftp.cica.indiana.edu, in /pub/pc/win3/uploads, titled simply bungee.zip. Be sure to set your ftp connection to binary mode before downloading. If you have any other After Dark shareware/freeware modules, please upload them too. The more the merrier. Andrew --
That isn't enough to change your Windows startup logo. vgalogo.rle is not needed after you have installed Windows. It is incorporated as a part of win.com. To make a new win.com, you have to concatinate three files together, using the /b option for a binary concatonation. I beleive it is copy /b win.cnf+vgalogo.lgo+vgalogo.rle mywin.com Make sure you backup your win.com file in anotehr directory before you do this -- I absent-mindedly typed win.com instead of mywin.com and had to resinstall Windows! Anyway, substitute whatever .RLE file you want. The win.cnf has the info needed to start Windows (think of it as a bootstrap) and vgalogo.vga has video information. Just make sure that the .RLE file doesn't tip the whole COM file size over the 64k limit of a .COM file! So anyway, I use mywin.com to startup MS Windows. Now instead of that annoying Micro$oft advertisment, I have the Joker (yes, from Batman) taking yoru picture from the screen, saying "Smile!" Also a little bit of text: "Micro$oft Windows: The world's first commercially sucessful virus." I added that because of the frequency of crashes. <grin> Rob
[ deleted ] [ deleted ] If your science teacher tells you glass is a liquid, try to get a different science teacher B^). Glass is a supercooled fluid, it is not a liquid (except at very high temperatures). The definition of liquid includes "readily takes the form of its container". Let's try to be more accurate here. We don't want people to think we're creationists now do we?
Stankiewicz? I doubt it. Koufax was one of two Jewish HOFs: the other is Hank Greenberg. Other good players: Buddy Myer, Johnny Kling, Norm and Larry Sherry, Ken Holtzman, Saul Rogovin, Ed Reulbach. There have been over 150 Jewish major leaguers. A few years ago there was an article about someone who keeps track of this in Spy magazine; the article was entitled "Jews on First," of course. There have also been at least two books on the subject.
The Orion concept as actually proposed (as opposed to the way it has been somewhat misrepresented in some fiction) included wrapping a thick layer of reaction mass -- probably plastic of some sort -- around each bomb. The bomb vaporizes the reaction mass, and it's that which transfers momentum to the pusher plate.
I am writing a custom widget to support the display of graphics and imagery. The user of the widget will be able to specify, when creating it, whether it is to operate in X or GL mode. I have set up translations and actions to handle mouse button presses. They work fine when the widget is in X mode. In GL mode they only work when the widget (my GL/X widget) is a child of a manager. Put another way, the translations do not work when the widget is configured in GL mode and is a child of a shell. Does anyone know why this is happening?
No the members of the first group are not necessarily arrogant. But when I ask them if they are absolutely certain that the volcano will erupt, I expect them to say so "No, but I've chosen to believe some knowledgable people who have determined that the volcano will erupt," rather than, "Yes, I am absolutely certain." When it comes to religious discussions, arrogance or at best naivete is reflected in the latter type of statement.
ON the subject of how many competing RC orders there are, let me point out the Golden Dawn is only the *outer* order of that tradition. The inner order is the Roseae Rubeae et Aurae Crucis. That's Ruby Rose and Gold Cross, in rough translation. The G.'.D.'. is a Rosicrucian order, as are all derivative groups. Of course, real Rosicrucians never admit to being Rosicrucian. Enjoy the journey! --Br'anArthur Queer, Peculiar, and Wyrd! :-)
Does anyone have the documentation for the MS Mouse Driver 8.2? I got it when I got Windows 3.1, but my Windows manual does not come with the documentation. In particular I need to know how to turn it off, and how to speed it up outside windows. The greater sensitivity is needed so I can play various games, esp X-wing :) --- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
I'm no Kingman fan. Just thought I'd point out that he's the only player in history to have five three-HR games. Joe Carter has four. Eddie Murray three. McCovey and Gehrig also three. Ruth, Mays, Foxx and Dawson two each. I don't think Reggie's WS game counts, else I believe he would also have had two. -- The Beastmaster
------------- cut here ----------------- University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona Suggested Reading Tan SL, Royston P, Campbell S, Jacobs HS, Betts J, Mason B, Edwards RG (1992). Cumulative conception and Livebirth rates after in-vitro fertilization. Lancet 339:1390-1394. For further information, call: Physicians' Resource Line 1-800-328-5868 in Tucson: 694-5868 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 28 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Articles :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: LOW LEVELS OF AIRBORNE PARTICLES LINKED TO SERIOUS ASTHMA ATTACKS American Lung Association A new study published by the American Lung Association has shown that surprisingly low concentrations of airborne particles can send people with asthma rushing to emergency rooms for treatment. The Seattle-based study showed that roughly one in eight emergency visits for asthma in that city was linked to exposure to particulate air pollution. The actual exposure levels recorded in the study were far below those deemed unsafe under federal air quality laws. "People with asthma have inflamed airways, and airborne particles tend to exacerbate that inflammation," said Joel Schwartz, Ph.D., of the Environmental Protection Agency, who was the lead author of the study. "When people are on the threshold of having, a serious asthma attack, particles can push them over the edge." The Seattle Study correlated 13 months of asthma emergency room visits with daily levels of PM,,,. or particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 10 microns or less. These finer particles are considered hazardous because they are small enough penetrate into the lung. Cities are considered out of compliance with clean air laws if the 24-hour average concentration of PM10 exceeds 150 micrograms per cubic millimeter of air. In Seattle however, a link between fine particles and asthma was found at levels as low as 30 micrograms. The authors concluded that for every 30 microgram increase in the four-day average of PM10, the odds of someone with asthma needing emergency treatment increased by 12 percent. The findings were published in the April American Review of Respiratory Disease, an official journal of the American Thoracic Society, the Lung Association's medical section. The study is the latest in a series of recent reports to suggest that particulate matter is a greatly under appreciated health threat. A 1992 study by Dr. Schwartz and Douglas Dockery, Ph.D., of Harvard found that particles may be causing roughly 60,000 premature deaths each year in the United States. Other studies have linked particulate matter to increased respiratory symptoms and bronchitis in children. "Government officials and the media are still very focused on ozone," says Dr. Schwartz. "But more and more research is showing that particles are bad actors as well." One problem in setting, standards for particulate air pollution is that PMIO is difficult to study. Unlike other regulated pollutants such as ozone and carbon monoxide, particulate matter is a complex and varying mixture of substances, including carbon, hydrocarbons, dust, and HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 29 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 acid aerosols. "Researchers can't Put people in exposure chambers to study the effects of particulate air pollution," says Dr. Schwartz. "We have no way of duplicating the typical urban mix of particles. " Consequently, most of what is known about particulates has been learned through population-based research like the Seattle study. Given that the EPA's current priority is to review the ozone and sulfur dioxide standards, the agency is unlikely to reexamine the PM10 standard any time soon. Until changes are made, there appears to be little people with asthma can do to protect themselves from airborne particles. "In some areas, you can get reports on air quality, but the reports only cover the pollutant that is closest to violating its standard, and that's rarely particulate matter," says Dr. Schwartz. "However, PM10 doesn't have to be near its violation range to be unhealthy." HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 30 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NIH Consensus Development Conference on Melanoma The National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Conference on Diagnosis and Treatment of Early Melanoma brought together experts in dermatology, pathology, epidemiology, public education, surveillance techniques, and potential new technologies as well as other health care professionals and the public to address (1) the clinical and histological characteristics of early melanoma; (2) the appropriate diagnosis, management, and followup of patients with early melanoma; (3) the role of dysplastic nevi and their significance; and (4) the role of education and screening in preventing melanoma morbidity and mortality. Following 2 days of presentations by experts and discussion by the audience, a consensus panel weighed the scientific evidence and prepared their consensus statement. Among their findings, the panel recommended that (1) melanoma in situ is a distinct entity effectively treated surgically with 0.5 centimeter margins; (2) thin invasive melanoma, less than 1 millimeter thick, has the potential for long-term survival in more than 90 percent of patients after surgical excision with a 1 centimeter margin; (3) elective lymph node dissections and extensive staging evaluations are not recommended in early melanoma; (4) patients with early melanoma are at low risk for relapse but may be at high risk for development of subsequent melanomas and should be followed closely; (5) some family members of patients with melanoma are at increased risk for melanoma and should be enrolled in surveillance programs; and (6) education and screening programs have the potential to decrease morbidity and mortality from melanoma. A copy of the full text of the consensus panel's statement is available by calling the NIH Office of Medical Applications of Research at (301) 496-1143 or by writing to: Office of Medical Applications of Research, National Institutes of Health, Federal Building, Room 618, Bethesda, MD 20892. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 31 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers The Cancer Centers Program is comprised of 55 NCI-designated Cancer Centers actively engaged in multidisciplinary research efforts to reduce cancer incidence, morbidity, and mortality. Within the program, there are four types of cancer centers: basic science cancer centers (14), which engage primarily in basic cancer research; clinical cancer centers (12), which focus on clinical research; "comprehensive" cancer centers (28), which emphasize a multidisciplinary approach to cancer research, patient care, and community outreach; and consortium cancer centers (1), which specialize in cancer prevention and control research. Although some cancer centers existed in the late 1960s and the 1970s, it was the National Cancer Act of 1971 that authorized the establishment of 15 new cancer centers, as well as continuing support for existing ones. The passage of the act also dramatically transformed the centers' structure and broadened the scope of their mission to include all aspects of basic, clinical, and cancer control research. Over the next two decades, the centers' program grew progressively. In 1990, there were 19 comprehensive cancer centers in the nation. Today, there are 28 of these institutions, all of which meet specific NCI criteria for comprehensive status. To attain recognition from the NCI as a comprehensive cancer center, an institution must pass rigorous peer review. Under guidelines newly established in 1990, the eight criteria for "comprehensiveness" include the requirement that a center have a strong core of basic laboratory research in several scientific fields, such as biology and molecular genetics, a strong program of clinical research, and an ability to transfer research findings into clinical practice. Moreover, five of the criteria for comprehensive status go significantly beyond that required for attaining a Cancer Center Support Grant (also referred to as a P30 or core grant), the mechanism of choice for supporting the infrastructure of a cancer center's operations. These criteria encompass strong participation in NCI-designated high-priority clinical trials, significant levels of cancer prevention and control research, and important outreach and educational activities--all of which are funded by a variety of sources. The other types of cancer centers also have special characteristics and capabilities for organizing new programs of research that can exploit important new findings or address timely research questions. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 32 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Of the 55 NCI-designated Cancer Centers, 14 are of the basic science type. These centers engage almost entirely in basic research, although some centers engage in collaborative research with outside clinical research investigators and in cooperative projects with industry to generate medical applications from new discoveries in the laboratory. Clinical cancer centers, in contrast, focus on both basic research and clinical research within the same institutional framework, and frequently incorporate nearby affiliated clinical research institutions into their overall research programs. There are 12 such centers today. Finally, consortium cancer centers, of which there is one, are uniquely structured and concentrate on clinical research and cancer prevention and control research. These centers interface with state and local public health departments for the purpose of achieving the transfer of effective prevention and control techniques from their research findings to those institutions responsible for implementing population-wide public health programs. Consortium centers also are heavily engaged in collaborations with institutions that conduct clinical trial research and coordinate community hospitals within a network of cooperating institutions in clinical trials. Together, the 55 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers continue to work toward creating new and innovative approaches to cancer research, and through interdisciplinary efforts, to effectively move this research from the laboratory into clinical trials and into clinical practice. Comprehensive Cancer Centers (Internet addresses are given where available) University of Alabama at Birmingham Comprehensive Cancer Center Basic Health Sciences Building, Room 108 1918 University Boulevard Birmingham, Alabama 35294 (205) 934-6612 University of Arizona Cancer Center 1501 North Campbell Avenue Tucson, Arizona 85724 (602) 626-6372 Internet: syd@azcc.arizona.edu Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center University of California at Los Angeles 200 Medical Plaza Los Angeles, California 90027 (213) 206-0278 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 33 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Internet: rick@jccc.medsch.ucla.edu Kenneth T. Norris Jr. Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Southern California 1441 Eastlake Avenue Los Angeles, California 90033-0804 (213) 226-2370 Yale University Comprehensive Cancer Center 333 Cedar Street New Haven, Connecticut 06510 (203) 785-6338 Lombardi Cancer Research Center Georgetown University Medical Center 3800 Reservoir Road, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007 (202) 687-2192 Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Miami Medical School 1475 Northwest 12th Avenue Miami, Florida 33136 (305) 548-4800 Internet: hlam@mednet.med.miami.edu Johns Hopkins Oncology Center 600 North Wolfe Street Baltimore, Maryland 21205 (410) 955-8638 Dana-Farber Cancer Institute 44 Binney Street Boston, Massachusetts 02115 (617) 732-3214 Internet: Kristie_Stevenson@macmailgw.dfci.harvard.edu Meyer L. Prentis Comprehensive Cancer Center of Metropolitan Detroit 110 East Warren Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48201 (313) 745-4329 Internet: cummings%oncvx1.dnet@rocdec.roc.wayne.edu University of Michigan Cancer Center HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 34 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 101 Simpson Drive Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-0752 (313) 936-9583 BITNET: kallie.bila.michels@um.cc.umich.edu Mayo Comprehensive Cancer Center 200 First Street Southwest Rochester, Minnesota 55905 (507) 284-3413 Norris Cotton Cancer Center Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center One Medical Center Drive Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756 (603) 646-5505 BITNET: edward.bresnick@dartmouth.edu Roswell Park Cancer Institute Elm and Carlton Streets Buffalo, New York 14263 (716) 845-4400 Columbia University Comprehensive Cancer Center College of Physicians and Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, New York 10032 (212) 305-6905 Internet: janie@cuccfa.ccc.columbia.edu Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center 1275 York Avenue New York, New York 10021 (800) 525-2225 Kaplan Cancer Center New York University Medical Center 462 First Avenue New York, New York 10016-9103 (212) 263-6485 UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center University of North Carolina School of Medicine Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599 (919) 966-4431 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 35 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center P.O. Box 3814 Durham, North Carolina 27710 (919) 286-5515 Cancer Center of Wake Forest University at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine 300 South Hawthorne Road Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27103 (919) 748-4354 Internet: ccwfumail@phs.bgsm.wfu.edu Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center 300 West 10th Avenue Columbus, Ohio 43210 (614) 293-5485 Internet: dyoung@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu Fox Chase Cancer Center 7701 Burholme Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111 (215) 728-2570 Internet: s_davis@fccc.edu University of Pennsylvania Cancer Center 3400 Spruce Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104 (215) 662-6364 Pittsburgh Cancer Institute 200 Meyran Avenue Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213-2592 (800) 537-4063 The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center 1515 Holcombe Boulevard Houston, Texas 77030 (713) 792-3245 Vermont Cancer Center University of Vermont 1 South Prospect Street Burlington, Vermont 05401 (802) 656-4580 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 36 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center 1124 Columbia Street Seattle, Washington 98104 (206) 667-4675 Internet: sedmonds@cclink.fhcrc.org University of Wisconsin Comprehensive Cancer Center 600 Highland Avenue Madison, Wisconsin 53792 (608) 263-8600 BITNET: carbone@uwccc.biostat.wisc.edu Clinical Cancer Centers University of California at San Diego Cancer Center 225 Dickinson Street San Diego, California 92103 (619) 543-6178 Internet: dedavis@ucsd.edu City of Hope National Medical Center Beckman Research Institute 1500 East Duarte Road Duarte, California 91010 (818) 359-8111 ext. 2292 University of Colorado Cancer Center 4200 East 9th Avenue, Box B188 Denver, Colorado 80262 (303) 270-7235 University of Chicago Cancer Research Center 5841 South Maryland Avenue, Box 444 Chicago, Illinois 60637 (312) 702-6180 Internet: judith@delphi.bsd.uchicago.edu Albert Einstein College of Medicine 1300 Morris Park Avenue Bronx, New York 10461 (212) 920-4826 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 37 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 University of Rochester Cancer Center 601 Elmwood Avenue, Box 704 Rochester, New York 14642 (716) 275-4911 Internet: rickb@wotan.medicine.rochester.edu Ireland Cancer Center Case Western Reserve University University Hospitals of Cleveland 2074 Abington Road Cleveland, Ohio 44106 (216) 844-5432 Roger Williams Cancer Center Brown University 825 Chalkstone Avenue Providence, Rhode Island 02908 (401) 456-2071 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital 332 North Lauderdale Street Memphis, Tennessee 38101-0318 (901) 522-0306 Internet: meyer@mbcf.stjude.org Institute for Cancer Research and Care 4450 Medical Drive San Antonio, Texas 78229 (512) 616-5580 Utah Regional Cancer Center University of Utah Health Sciences Center 50 North Medical Drive, Room 2C110 Salt Lake City, Utah 84132 (801) 581-4048 BITNET: hogan@cc.utah.edu Massey Cancer Center Medical College of Virginia Virginia Commonwealth University 1200 East Broad Street Richmond, Virginia 23298 (804) 786-9641 Consortia HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 38 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Drew-Meharry-Morehouse Consortium Cancer Center 1005 D.B. Todd Boulevard Nashville, Tennessee 37208 (615) 327-6927 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 39 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: General Announcments :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: THE UCI MEDICAL EDUCATION SOFTWARE REPOSITORY This is to announce the establishment of an FTP site at the University of California, for the collection of shareware, public-domain software and other information relating to Medical Education. Specifically, we are interested in establishing this site as a clearinghouse for personally developed software that has been developed for local medical education programs. We welcome all contributions that may be shared with other users. To connect to the UCI Medical Education Software Repository, ftp to: FTP.UCI.EDU The Repository currently offers both MSDOS and Macintosh software, and we hope to support other operating systems (UNIX, MUMPS, AMIGA?). Uploads are welcome. We actively solicit information and software which you have personaly developed or have found useful in your local medical education efforts, either as an instructor or student. Once you have connected to the site via FTP, cd (change directory) to either the med-ed/mac/incoming or the med-ed/msdos/incoming directories, change the mode to binary and "send" or "put" your files. Note that you won't be able to see the files with the "ls" or "dir" commands. Please compress your files as appropriate to the operating system (ZIP for MSDOS; Compactor or something similar for Macintosh) to save disk space. After uploading, please send email to Steve Clancy (slclancy@uci.edu) (for MSDOS) or Albert Saisho (saisho@uci.edu) (for MAC) describing the file(s) you have uploaded and any other information we might need to describe it. Note that we can only accept software or information that has been designated as shareware, public-domain or that may otherwise be distributed freely. Please do not upload commercial software! Doing so may jeopardize the existence of this FTP site. If you wish to upload software for other operating systems, please contact either Steve Clancy, M.L.S. or Albert Saisho, M.D. at the addresses above. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 40 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS News Summaries :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS Daily Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National AIDS Clearinghouse makes available the following information as a public service only. Providing this information does not constitute endorsement by the CDC, the CDC Clearinghouse, or any other organization. Reproduction of this text is encouraged; however, copies may not be sold. Copyright 1993, Information, Inc., Bethesda, MD ================================================================== April 12, 1993 ================================================================== "NIH Set to Test Multiple AIDS Vaccines" Reuters (04/08/93) (Frank, Jacqueline) Washington--The Clinton administration will permit the National Institutes of Health to test multiple AIDS vaccines instead of only allowing the Army to test a single vaccine, administration sources said Thursday. The decision ends the controversy between Army AIDS researchers who had hoped to test a vaccine made by MicroGeneSys Inc. and the National Institutes of Health, which contended that multiple vaccines should be tested. Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said a final announcement on the therapeutic vaccine trials was expected to be made last Friday. Companies including Genentech Inc., Chiron Corp., and Immuno AG have already told NIH that they are prepared to participate in the vaccine tests. The testing is intended to demonstrate whether AIDS vaccines are effective in thwarting the replication of HIV in patients already infected. Shalala refuted last week's reports that the Clinton administration had decided the Army's test of the MicroGeneSys VaxSyn should proceed without tests of others at the same time. "The report was inaccurate, and I expect there to be some announcement in the next 24 hours about that particular AIDS research project," said Shalala. Administration sources subsequently confirmed that NIH director Dr. Bernadine Healy and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler had convinced the White House that multiple vaccines should be tested simultaneously. But MicroGeneSys president Frank Volvovitz said a test of multiple vaccines could triple the cost of the trial and delay it by two years. ================================================================== HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 41 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 "The Limits of AZT's Impact on HIV" U.S. News & World Report (04/12/93) Vol. 114, No. 14, P. 18 AZT has become the most widely used drug to fight AIDS since it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1987. Burroughs Wellcome, the manufacturer of AZT, made $338 million last year alone from sales of the drug. However, a team of European researchers recently reported that although HIV-positive patients taking AZT demonstrated a slightly lower risk of developing AIDS within the first year of treatment, that benefit disappeared two years later. The Lancet published preliminary findings of the three-year study, which could give more reason for critics to argue the drug's cost, side effects, and general efficacy. Even though U.S. researchers concede the study was more comprehensive than American trials, many argue the European researchers' suggestion that HIV-positive patients experience little improvement in their illness before the development of AIDS symptoms. In addition, researchers have long been familiar with the --------- end of part 3 ------------
Again, Mr. Frank has come to the rescue with his cool headed reason. How about, "One charge per victim?" Of course I'll think about it in a few days and find a case where this doesn't apply either. What the heck, I don't study law, I just hate lawyers. :)
Hi! One of the ASPI-drivers (I think it's the ASPICD) supports a /NORST paramter, which means to not reset the SCSI bus when it loads. This fixed the problem a friend of mine was having with his adaptec+tosh 3401. Regards,
# #The article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners. # #The median number of sexual partners for all men 20-39 was 7.3. # #Compared to the table I have already posted from Masters, Johnson, # #and Kolodny showing male homosexual partners, it is apparent that # #homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general # #male population. It's a shame that we don't have a breakdown for # #straight men vs. gay/bi men -- that would show even more dramatically # #how much more promiscuous gay/bi men are. # # Possibly because gay/bi men are less likely to get married? Marriage isn't a requirement for a couple staying together. # What was the purpose of this post? If it was to show a mindless obsession # with statistics, an incredibly flawed system of reasoning, and a repellent # hatemonger agenda, then the purpose was accomplished with panache. # # (a) Get a clue. (b) Get a life. (c) Get out of my face. I'm not in yours. # # ----bi Andrew D. Simchik SCHNOPIA! Yes you are. When you and the rest of the homosexual community pass laws to impose your moral codes on me, by requiring me to hire, rent to, or otherwise associate with a homosexual against my will, yes, you are in my face. Until homosexuals stop trying to impose their morals on me, I will be in your face about this.
Is it possible to plug an ordinary ISA card into a VESA localbus slot? I am running out of slots and I have one spare localbus slot.
Word for Windows lets me designate text as being in a language other than US English. (Alt-F L, Format | Language, as I recall.) So I mark it for English (UK), but it still accepts "rumor" and squawks at "rumour". As far as I can see, Microsoft didn't include the English (UK) dictionary on my disks. (I don't mean to imply that I was singled out; I assume that nobody in the U.S got them.) I dialed the Microsoft BBS, but nothing in the Word for Windows section looked helpful. Can anyone tell me where or how to obtain the UK spelling dictionary for Winword 2.0? The file name would be SPELL_UK.LEX or something similar. Email please; I'll post a summary.
It may be that they just didn't mention it, or that they actually haven't thought about it. I got the vague impression from their mission proposal that they weren't taking a very holistic aproach to the whole thing. They seemed to want to land people on the Moon by the end of the decade without explaining why, or what they would do once they got there. The only application I remember from the Av Week article was placing a telescope on the Moon. That's great, but they don't explain why it can't be done robotically. But I'm a _member_. Besides Bill, I hang out with you :)
Well, the Patrick Division got a little more interesting last night. The Islanders lost in OT and the Devils tied the Pens. That means if the Isles beat the Devils on Friday, the will meet the Caps in the playoffs. However, I have some more comments on the Islanders and hockey in general that I need to get off my chest :). First of all, with the Islanders back-to-back lackluster performances against the Whalers, one may think that the Islanders are out of shape. These guys always suck wind in the 2nd period, come on a little in the 3rd and run out of gas too soon. It is unbelieveable how many one goal games these guys have lost. Anyway, the games was pretty wide open. The Isles still have tons of trouble scoring. The Whalers played a golie in is 1st NHL start, I think his name was Lenarduzzi (sp?). (His NHL debut was the Tuesday tie against the Isles). Like I mentioned before, this guy looked like the best golie on the planet for a while (until he misplayed a Mahlakov slap shot to go to OT). I say it's because the Isles don't shoot correctly. Has anyone else noticed this? Also, I think it is really a shame for hockey when I guy like Mick Vukota gets as much ice time as he does. This guy has about as much hockey talent as Jiggs MacDonald (who did play hockey, I think). Anytime he gets the puck it gets stolen, and he always starts fights and gets needless penalties. Richard Pilon is another guy who is on the ice to stir up crap. And he's a defenseman. He's got to be approaching negative infinity for his plus/minus. This guy gets beaten all the time. Why the need for such "enforcers"? Not only do fights slow the game down ALOT, but it takes away from the guys who are really trying to play the game. I'll be one of the few to admit, I do enjoy a good fight once in a while, but only when it's "called for". You know, when a guy checks the goalie too hard. In other words, a violation of "hockey ethics" might cause you to get puched. But there is no need to start crap when you are losing or becuase you can get away with it!! Does anyone agree that referees need to be a little less lenient in the 3rd and OT? I mean COME ON already. I'm sick of seeing teams pulling guys down, holding guys etc. just becuase the referee doesn't call it. OT and late in the 3rd should be a time for strategy, not physical prowess. Trying to set up a goal should be first and foremost. If you are so afraid that the other team is going to score that you have to pull a guy down to prevent it, you don't deserve to win in the first place. Just My Honest Opinion,
[...] These don't seem like "little things" to me. At least, they are orders worse than the motto. Do you think that the motto is a "little thing" that will lead to worse things?
I think that Mike Foligno was the captain of the Sabres when he got traded to the Leafs. Also, wasn't Rick Vaive the captain of the Leafs when he got traded to Chicago (with Steve Thomas for Ed Olcyzk and someone). Speaking of the Leafs, I believe that Darryl Sittler was their captain (he'd torn the "C" off his jersey but I think he re-claimed the captaincy later on) when he was traded to the Flyers. Oh yeah, of course, Gretzky was the captain of the Oilers before he was traded wasn't he?
The short answer seems to be: "I don't". The particular package (wscrawl) seems to reset *all* its defaults if *any* of them are missing from the .Xdefaults file. Once I added the missing ones to the .Xdefaults file, the problem goes away. -Kevin
I've been watching & playing hockey for a good long time now, and I've seen players with questionable tactics, but never have I seen what Ray did on Sunday. This guy gets my all time loser award. It's one thing to repeatedly cross check someone to the back of the neck when they are down, it's another thing to have a fist fight with someones balls. Ray should be thrown out of the league, what an a**hole.
Agreed. Remember, I don't even think of Clipper as encryption in any real sense--if I did, I'd probably be a lot more annoyed about it. That's not for Clinton (or anyone under him) to say, though. Only the federal and supreme courts can say anything about the constitutionality. Anything the administration or any governmental agency says is opinion at best.
I certainly do use it whenever I have to do TIFF, and it usually works very well. That's not my point. I'm >philosophically< opposed to it because of its complexity. This complexity has led to some programs' poor TIFF writers making some very bizarre files, other programs' inability to load TIFF images (though they'll save them, of course), and a general inability to interchange images between different environments despite the fact they all think they understand TIFF. As the saying goes, "It's not me I'm worried about- it's all the abuse of TIFF over the years, and I chalk it all up to the immense (and unnecessary) complexity of the format. In the words of the TIFF 5.0 spec, Appendix G, page G-1 (capitalized emphasis mine): "The only problem with this sort of success is that TIFF was designed to be powerful and flexible, at the expense of simplicity. It takes a fair amount of effort to handle all the options currently defined in this specification (PROBABLY NO APPLICATION DOES A COMPLETE JOB), and that is currently the only way you can be >sure< that you will be able to import any TIFF image, since there are so many image-generating applications out there now." If a program (or worse all applications) can't read >every< TIFF image, that means there are some it won't- some that I might have to deal with. Why would I want my images to be trapped in that format? I don't and neither should anyone who agrees with my reasoning- not that anyone does, of course! :-)
Oh? What is wrong with *this* motto, now? If you wouldn't approve of even that one, I am beginning to think that you just have something against mottos in general. What do you think of "E plurbis unum?"
A(> Can anyone tell me if a bloodcount of 40 when diagnosed as hypoglycemic is A(> dangerous, i.e. indicates a possible pancreatic problem? One Dr. says no, the A(> other (not his specialty) says the first is negligent and that another blood A(> test should be done. Also, what is a good diet (what has worked) for a hypo- A(> glycemic? TIA. A(> A(> A(> Anthony Anello A(> Fermilab A(> Batavia, Illinois Once you have your hypoglycemia CONFIRMED through the proper channels, you might consider ther following: 1) Chelated Manganese 25-50mg/day. 2) Chelated Chromium 400-600mcg/day. 3) Increase protein through foods or supplements. 4) Avoid supplements/foods high in Potassium, Calcium, Zinc. 5) Avoid Vit C supplements in excess of 100mg. 6) Avoid honey and foods high in simple sugars. 7) Enjoy breads, cereals, grains... Discuss the above with your health practitioner for compatibility with your body chemistry and safety. --Ron--
We have been using Iterated Systems compression board to compress pathology images and are getting ratios of 40:1 to 70:1 without too much loss in quality. It is taking about 4 mins per image to compress, on a 25Mhz 486 but decompression is almost real time on a 386 in software alone.
A couple of weeks ago I posted a question concerning communicating between VB and MSACCESS using DDE. The answers I received at that time allowed me to get a prototype of my project working. However, during this process I have come up with new problems. 1) There seems to be a limit of 255 characters for a DDE Topic string. Is this inherent in all DDE systems or just peculiar to MSACCESS or VB? 2) It is easy to query an Access database from VB using the DDE SQL command, (provided the above limitation is overcome by using short field and table names) but how is one meant to update a database? a) A DDE SQL UPDATE command does not seem to work. b) Initiating an Access macro using a DDE Execute command from VB cannot be used because when the macro requests information from VB using a second DDE channel the programs dead lock until time- outs occur. (The VB to Access channel has to close before the Access to VB channel is initiated, I guess.) c) Access does not allow VB to DDE POKE the information. The way I eventually managed to update a database was by sending key- strokes from VB to Access using the SendKeys command. This technique has the problem that Access cannot be minimised and it must always be in a state ready to respond to the sequence of key-strokes VB sends. Are all the above statements correct or have I made incorrect assumptions? Are there any better work arounds to the above? Are there any signs of an ODBC driver for Access?
[...] With all the activity in sci.crypt these past few days, I am not supprised you missed it... NIST got Skipjack from the NSA :) [...] "I am not a crook." President Richard M. Nixon ^^^^^^^^^
Let's look at the effects of inflation on 1930's superstars' salaries. I read once that the Babe made $80,000 one year and that was about as good as it got for him. Let's assume he made that in 1928 (I'm not sure of the figures, but I know I'm in the ballpark--pun intended). :-) Today, assuming a 4% yearly inflation rate, which is an understatement if not accurate, his measly $80,000 salary would be worth. FV = $80,000 x (1+4%)^(1993-1928) = $80,000 x (1.04)^65 = just over $1,000,000. Assuming inflation is average of around 5%. FV = $80,000 x (1+5%)^65 = almost 2,000,000. (I didn't crunch these numbers beforehand). These numbers might lead one to believe that today's players are slightly overpaid. The Babe appears to have made then what today's average to above average players make now. Perfectly accurate salary, year of salary, and average inflation rate would make this analysis more accurate, but I don`t think I'm off by much. Chop Chop Michael Mule'
I do not think it is at all unlikely that Clinton ro his policy wonk facilitators arranged the Waco raid as a display piece for the Gun War on the Constitution. Look at what the Bush administration did to get material for the Drug War on the Constitution--remember that baggie of crack George waved at the cameras? They took a dealer from the ghetto and brought him to the White House so they could say drugs had been dealt onb the White House Lawn. And I don't think anybody could honestly think Clinton would have any moral qualms about the raid... The only really worrisome thing is that the BD's heroic defense of their ranch will make Clinton's Gun War on the Constitution _more_ successfull--exactly as he wanted. The media and politicians will filter this so that the general public will think the BD's are bad guys! Don't help them. Stand up for the BD's with your friends and family adnd in public anytime you can--their supposed moral qualms are not important to the issue. They are heroes in the fight against oppressive government; it could just as well have been you. -watkins@earth.eecs.uic.edu (Brian E Watkins)
This past winter I found myself spending a ridiculous amout of time in front of my computer. Since my eyes were going berserk, I decided to shell out some serious money to upgrade from a 14" to a 17" monitor. I'm running 800x600 at 72 Hz. My eyes are very grateful. However, I find myself using a smaller font with less eye strain. Has anyone else had this kind of experience? I thought that small fonts were the culprit but it seems that flicker was my real problem. Any comments?
Now, I had put a Wink at the end of my suggestion indicating it was intensely sarcastic. I can't help it if everyone got all serious. Ross. I never saw your original posting. it dropped on the floor somewhere. I just saw the trickle down, thought it was intensely stupid, not knowing anything about the joke, mentioned arbitron and left it with an equally stupid joke. Bill in his ever increasing devotion to thoroughness dug up several arbitron stats. I myself think the arbitron stats are severely methodologically impaired, but are a good measure of proportion. I don't think anyone knows how many people read news anymore.
We had the same problem in our company. We changed the keyboard-bios and after that, everything went fine. Our dealer told us that some boards of that series have a defect kbd-bios. Michael
Have you checked out Adobe Illustrator? There are a few Unix versions for it available, depending on your platform. I know of two Unix versions: One for Mach (NeXT) and for Irix (SGI). There may be others, such as for Sun SparcStation, but I don't know for sure. ttyl,
(FRANK MICH even show At least your parents didn't move you Idaho. The only things that get any coverage there are football, basketball and baseball!
Yes, and everyone thinks as you do. No one thinks that he is going to cause or be involved in a fatal accident, but the likelihood is surprisingly high. Just because you are the man on the firing squad whose gun is shooting blanks does not mean that you are less guilty. You mean that killing is wrong in all but one situtation? And, you should note that that situation will never occur. There are always other options thank killing. Why don't you just say that all killing is wrong. This is basically what you are saying. Are you attempting to be condescending? But, most people have found the risk to be acceptable. You are probably much more likely to die in a plane crash, or even using an electric blender, than you are to be executed as an innocent. I personally think that the risk is acceptable, but in an ideal moral system, no such risk is acceptable. "Acceptable" is the fudge factor necessary in such an approximation to the ideal.
Not at all. Two weeks ago I registered a concern about some programming that was being conducted by a student organisation here at the University of Texas at San Antonio. As a result, I was interrogated by the capus police, who also attempted to create a positive-identification file (photo, fingerprints, etc.). I refused to permit this, and filed a complaint with the University administration. The Vice-President for Business Affairs (the 'boss' of the campus police) stated that he had no interest in the legal/Constitutional implications of those actions.
I've just had the good fortune to be hired by Electronic Arts as Senior Computer Graphics Artist at the Vancouver, Canada office. :^) The timing has a lot to do with the 3DO which EA is putting a lot of resources into. I do not know of any titles to be developed as yet but will be happy to post as things develop. I start there May 3.
The best way of self injection is to use the right size needle and choose the correct spot. For Streptomycin, usually given intra muscularly, use a thin needle (23/24 guage) and select a spot on the upper, outer thigh (no major nerves or blood vessels there). Clean the area with antiseptic before injection, and after. Make sure to inject deeply (a different kind of pain is felt when the needle enters the muscle - contrasted to the 'prick' when it pierces the skin).
I am trying to get my system to work with a Tandberg 3600 + Future Domain TMC-1660 + Seagate ST-21M MFM controller. The system boots up if the Tandberg is disconnected from the system, and of course no SCSI devices found (I have no other SCSI devices). The system boots up if the Seagate MFM controller is removed from the system. The Future Domain card reports finding the Tandberg 3660 on the SCSI bus. The system then of course stops booting because my MFM hard disks can't be found. The system hangs if all three (Tandberg, Future Domain TMC-1660 & Seagate MFM controller) are in the system. Looks like there is some conflict between the Seagate and Future Domain card. But the funny thing is that it only hangs if the Tandberg is connected. I have checked that there are no conflict in BIOS addresses, IRQ & I/O port. Have I missed anything? I am lost here. Any suggestions are most welcomed. Thanks in advance. Delman. -- ______________________________________________________________________
The danger in philosophizing about science is that theory and generalization can end up being far removed from the actual day-to-day of the grunt at the bench. Yes, its great to be involved in a process were I can walk into the lab after a heavy night of dreaming and just do something for the hell of it (as long as my advisor doesn't catch me - which is easy enough to do), but stamping out such behavior seems to be the purpose in life of grant review committees and the peer review process in general. In today's world that's what determines what science is: what gets funded. And a damn good thing to. Flights of fantasy just don't have much chance of producing anything, at least not in biomedical research. The surest way for a graduate student to ruin their life is to work in a lab where the boss is more concerned with fleshing out his/her fantasies than with having the student work on a project that actually has a good chance of producing some results. MD's seem to be particularly prone to this aberrant behavior. I have to agree with Gary Merrill's response to this. I've read alot of the Alu and middle repetitive sequence work and it's really very interesting, good work with implications for many fields in molecular genetics. It's really an example of how a well reasoned project turned up interesting results that were unexpected.
(NDW) If an Uninstall icon doesn't exist in the Norton Desktop Apps group:
To answer your irrelevant question, yes a person of color is human, but I still don't know what you mean by human being and you have merely begged the question without responding. By trying to inject the notion of race into the discussion, you muddy the waters without adding any insight whatever. The same parallel question could be "Is a polydactyl person a human being?" You still have not answered what you mean by human being. Please do so. You won't answer the question and instead drag in irrelevancies. If you want a definition of human being that does not depend on the vagaries of law, but holds solid whatever the law may rule, provide it for me. More irrelevancies. As Larry Margolis pointed out, the law has made special exceptions in order to include fetuses, but does not follow your version of human being. And as he pointed out, brain death is not a means of determining who has the rights of the living, but rather who has died. There is a significant difference. What I am wondering now is, has your argument so failed you that you feel it necessary to drag out irrelevancies and leave the thread you started? You got answers to your questions when you began baiting me, if you recall, after you had made some ridiculous remarks about Adrienne Regard and, having been corrected, changed the subject with your remarks about having a discussion of substance. If you really wanted a discussion of substance, why then do you disregard logic and substance in order to toss silly accussations, e.g. "It really doesn't matter to you..." If it matters to you, then why not define human being and seek some substance? You're not going to convince a logical person of the rightness of your position unless you apply some logic and show some meaning to your words. As others point out, one is sacrificed for the other depending on which has the better chance at survival. Again, your analogy fails. Not precedence, but possession makes a difference here. A woman's womb is indisputably her own. Also, I see you ignore my statement that you would grant rights to a fetus that would not be granted a born human being. Was that due to its inconvenience? Is it? Please cite a precedent and the basis of the ruling. You simply assert things without any support. Your analogy is not accurate and your assertions are unsupported. Try this on for size. It is not murder for one Siamese twin to kill the other in the womb. There. We now have equal arguments. But the idea is illogical. For one Siamese twin to kill the other in the womb would likely be to kill itself as well. The systems are dependent on each other for life. I'm still struggling to see anything analagous here and failing to do so. Your argument is from Fantasy Island. Your comparison is a total failure, as I have demonstrated already, and has no basis in reality, neither legally nor medically. And for you to assert that it is not a perfect comparison because of the impossible, that of coercion or oppression, is ridiculous. As I said, you give the analogy too little credit for failure. On the one hand you start this by saying you want to take a real, rather than a hypothetical, situation, then you fly off into Siamese twins murdering one another in the womb or coercing or oppressing each other in the womb when the reality of the situation you describe in now way matches your version. As I said before, decisions are made regarding which twin lives and dies in situations where they cannot both survive. And, furthermore, as I have already said, there is a difference between an equal claim to organs and a claim that is unequal. You seem to be asserting that a fetus has a claim on a woman's womb. When the fetus is born, what happens to its claim? And by what reason do you assert its claim? You haven't answered the question. The situations are not analagous. Again you avoid the question. Dependence can be transferred, and it is not as slow as you seem to think. Yes, and I'd hate to have been the one to tell Dr Gunn's children that he was murdered by a religious, "pro-life" fanatic. Please do try to stay relevant. Clever comeback. I congratulate you on the readiness of your wit. What happened to that claim to bodily organs where life is at stake? Why does this parent now have an indisputable right to his or her kidney when previously the parent did not, by your standards? What is different about the two situations? I see I have to spell this out for you since the meaning was too subtle for you. In the one case you do not recognize a difference between a fetus and a born child (you ask why a born child cannot be abandoned but a fetus can), and in this case you recognize a significant difference between the fetus and born child where the lives of the two are at stake. You can't have it both ways. Action and inaction are irrelevant to the principle, but you are wrong about the inaction anyway. Ask any of the numerous women who post here and have borne children how inactive their pregnancy was. To have a healthy, live child, a woman does more than hang out, eat as she chooses, plays volleyball like she always did, drinks at parties with her friends, etc. She behaves very differently, and the provision of her resources to a fetus may be no more voluntary than the beating of her heart, but it is far from inactive.
The two historic facts that I think the most important are these: (1) If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, then he must have done something else equally impressive, in order to create the observed amount of impact. (2) Nobody ever displayed the dead body of Jesus, even though both the Jewish and the Roman authorities would have gained a lot by doing so (it would have discredited the Christians).
_TOO_ many.
grady@netcom.com suggests using a common but restricted-distribution private key to allow public key system encrypted postings. In theory that will work fine as long as the privae key remains secure. In practice it would be a good idea to check to see if that would be a violation of some net rule, practice, custom, etc. I don't say it would be, just that it would be a good idea to check. This is not like rot13 where everybody can have the key trivially. It would also be a good idea to check to see if such posts would be forwarded by the sites needed to make the chain work. Of course there'd be no problem with a discussion group travelling over facilities entirely under the control of the members. Probably there would also be no problem with a mailing list approach. It might even be fun for some.
I have been building X11 with gcc since 2.1 and the only time I had trouble was when the position independant code option broke (so I couldn't use gcc to build Sun shared libraries). The important thing to do is to follow the tips given in the gcc release. Gcc generates code that requires libgcc2 and you should take that into account when deciding which compiler to use for the libraries. -- Michael Salmon #include <standard.disclaimer> #include <witty.saying> #include <fancy.pseudo.graphics>
Sorry, I did`nt tell exactly what I need. I need a utility for automatic updating (deleting, adding, changing) of *.ini files for Windows. The program should run from Dos batchfile or the program run a script under Windows. I will use the utility for updating the win.ini (and other files) on meny PC`s. Do I find it on any FTP host?
The FLYERS team that can beat any team on any night showed up at the Spectrum Sunday night, and dominated the Maple Leafs thoroughly en route to a 4-0 shutout. Tommy Soderstrom will get credit for the shutout, but he barely broke a sweat until the third period as the FLYERS defense kept the Leafs from mounting any serious attack. Injuries: Pelle Eklund is day-to-day with a bruised thigh. Roster Moves: Jason Bowen was added to the lineup for his first NHL game. Jason was the FLYERS second pick in the first round (15th overall) of the 1992 entry draft. 19 years old, 6'4", 210 lbs. In 62 games with the tri-city Americans he had 10 goals, 12 assists and 219 PIM. He plays left wing and defense, he played defense in this game although Bobby Taylor said that Bill Dineen was planning to use him up front as well. Andre Faust was returned to Hershey. He actually left after the second period of the Kings game, flew to Albany, got the game tying goal in a Bears OT win, and played again for Hershey Sunday night. Lines: Fedyk-Lindros-Recchi Beranek-Brind'Amour-Dineen Lomakin-Butsayev-Conroy Acton-Brown Galley-McGill Yushkevich-Cronin Carkner-Hawgood Bowen Tommy Soderstrom in goal. Acton replaced Lomakin in the 3rd period. Game Summary: If the FLYERS played like this every night, they'd be in the playoffs this year. The FLYERS hit everything that moved. They created scoring chance after scoring chance. They snuffed out everything that the Leafs tried to do. Jason Bowen made a good play on his first NHL shift that almost created a goal. He had the puck in the top of the left offensive circle all alone, but instead of taking the shot he found Brind'Amour crashing the net on the other side. A perfect pass and a good shot across Daren Puppa's body should have been a goal, but Puppa made a great save reading the play. Garry Galley gave the Maple Leafs 7th ranked power play the first chance when he hooked Doug Gilmour at 4:25. The FLYERS lowly 21st ranked penalty killing unit was almost flawless the entire game, and set the tone on this kill. The Maple Leafs got almost nothing but long unscreened shots, and the defense swept away every rebound. After the power play, the FLYERS got a goal on an ugly play. Rod Brind'Amour gave the puck to Greg Hawgood at the right point, and he sent a drive at the net. Puppa made the save and kicked the rebound right into the feet of Josef Beranek and Bob Rouse, who were wrestling in the slot. Beranek was able to get his stick on the puck and push it out to Dineen who was skating into the slot from the right circle, and he lifted a backhander over Puppa for a 1-0 FLYERS lead at 8:10. The FLYERS kept the pressure on, and Puppa was the only Leaf keeping the FLYERS from building on their lead for a while. Eventually things settled down and defense prevailed. Each team got an occasional scoring chance, but the goalies were strong. Bowen started giving some Lindros-like checks in his own corners. Then Lindros, who was looking to avenge a hit Foligno gave him, thought he had a chance to even the score. He had Foligno lined up at center ice, leaned into him, and rode him into the center ice boards. The only problem was that Foligno was a little far from the boards, and Mike "Mister" McGeough felt that it warranted a boarding call at 15:38 The Leafs couldn't get anything going on the power play as the FLYERS were very aggressive (for a change) on the kill. With time running out in the period, Recchi carried through the neutral zone and handed to Lindros as they approached the Leaf's blue line. They were in a crowd with Wendell Clark and Jamie Macoun, Lindros tried a backhand pass to Recchi through the feet of Macoun that connected to Recchi, but then Clark checked Recchi off the puck. Macoun then tried to clear, but it was weak and went right to McGill who had manned the point. He drove it from just inside the blue line. Macoun got his stick on it and deflected it past his own goalie at 19:55.1. Shots were 13-8 FLYERS in the period. The FLYERS finally got their first chance on the power play when Dave Andreychuk tripped up Rod Brind'Amour in his offensive zone. During the power play, the FLYERS got cheated a little when the puck popped up into the air and Eric gloved it down, but McGeough thought it hit his stick above his head. We could see from our seats at the other end of the ice that it only hit his glove and the replay confirmed, but the faceoff went to the other end. As time was running out in the advantage, Lindros found Galley with a pass across the goal mouth but Puppa made the save. The rebound kicked back to the right corner where Recchi picked it up, passed it out to Eric crashing through the right circle, and Eric one-timed past Puppa at 7:55. With the assist, Recchi moves past Bobby Clarke's 74-75 season, the second best one season total for a FLYER at 117. Eric moves up to 4th all time in FLYERS rookie scoring with 67 points. Mike Eastwood took down Al Conroy at 8:30 to give the FLYERS another chance on the power play. Not much pressure before Garry Galley ended the power play with a slash at 9:19. Not much happened on the 4 on 4, although the Leafs had most of the possession. The FLYERS smothered the Leafs short power play. Tempers flared a little at 13:14. Bowen and Pearson got roughing minors, Keith Acton got a bloody face. Dave McLlwain then took a dive and got Greg Hawgood a hooking minor at 13:46 to set up a 4 on 3. The replay showed that Hawgood's stick stopped making contact with McLlwain long before he spun around and fell. Again the FLYERS smothered the Leafs power play, led by Dimitri Yushkevich. Bowen made a thundering hit when he came out of the box on Pearson. Berehowski tried to perplex everybody with his sloooowball. He had the puck at the point, and just trickled a pass down the slot. He made all the FLYERS look silly as nobody could get a stick on it, and it got to Gilmour at the side of the net, but Soderstrom stoned him. The FLYERS picked things up offensively after the kill was over, but didn't get anything home. Shots were 13-10 FLYERS. The FLYERS were content with the 3 goal lead in the third period, and they decided that if Tommy wanted a shutout, he was going to have to work for it a little. The FLYERS got most of the scoring chances in the first 7 or so minutes of the period, but couldn't get past Puppa. Then the Leafs got tired of Lindros making road kill out of them, and tempers flared. 2 each for Doug Gilmour and Lindros (unsportsmanlike conduct) and 2 each for Glenn Anderson and McGill (roughing) all at 7:02. Terry Carkner then took a kneeing penalty at 7:51 on Gilmour. Again the FLYERS smothered the Leafs power play. At about the 12 minute mark, Dave Andreychuk got a shot away from his left circle that got through Soderstrom. The puck was rolling on it's side, and as luck would have it it turned away from the net instead of turning towards it (think of how a rolling quarter inevitably starts to lean one way or the other). Seconds later Rod Brind'Amour tripped up Gilmour at 12:24 to give the Leafs another chance on the power play. On the advantage, after Soderstrom stoned Andreychuk while lying down, Andreychuk got the rebound through Soderstrom, but from behind the net and it went straight through and was swept away by one of his defensemen. They kept the pressure on, but Soderstrom was equal and preserved the shutout. Recchi cross checked Ken Baumgartner to get tempers hot and start a brawl at 16:01. No punches thrown, Recchi got the initial minor, Krushelnyski Baumgartner and Lindros each got roughing minors. At 17:02 Rouse and Beranek expressed their mutual dislike for each other and got 2 each for slashing to set up another 4 on 4. Mike Eastwood shoved down Ryan McGill in the FLYERS zone as they were battling for the puck, and while McGill was down he ran his stick across McGill's face. The FLYERS were not happy with that at all. 5-8 Al Conroy paired up with 6-1 Berehowski, and started throwing punches. Upward. Well, Al held his own, much to the delight of the crowd. Each got a couple punches in before going down in a head, and Al got a standing O! Penalties: Eastwood 5 (cross check) + game, Clark, Carkner 10 each. Berehowski and Conroy 5 each (fighting) at 17:49. So a major penalty for the rest of the game for the FLYERS. The had no interest in stting on the lead. Hawgood, Galley and Brind'Amour played catch until Hawgood found Dineen all alone in the left circle, he controlled the puck and blasted it past Puppa at 18:39. That was all the fireworks, Tommy Soderstrom would not face another shot. Puppa did, but kept the FLYERS off the board. 4-0 FLYERS, shots were 9-8 FLYERS in the 3rd. Probably the strongest game I've seen from the FLYERS since the All Star break. Shutout number 4 for Soderstrom, all since 1/10. Tied for 2nd most in the NHL, but he's played fewer games than Belfour (6) or the goalie I can't remember that he's tied with. Next up it's the Winnipeg Selannes Tuesday night in Winnipeg. The FLYERS cannot be eliminated if they win, but a loss coupled with an Islander win that night in Washington would be the official end. FLYERS up to 71 points on the season in 78 games. Last year they had 75 points in 80 games (5 under .500), so they need at least 8 points in their last 6 games to improve on that only by percentage points (5 under in 84 is better than 5 under in 80). Tragic number holds at 3 points with 6 games left. The tragic number for 5th is 5 points, I watched the Rangers blow a 4-2 third period lead at home to lose 5-4 before I finished this up. Why 5 points instead of 4? Well, the FLYERS will win the tie-breaker if they catch them, whereas the Islanders win tie breakers against the FLYERS and so need only a tie. The Rangers could crumble down the stretch as they play the Devils, the Pens twice, the FLYERS, and finish up with 2 games against the Caps. So I guess 5th place could be the goal for the team to focus on. FLYERS team record watch: Eric Lindros: 38 goals, 29 assists, 67 points (rookie records) club record goals: club record points: Eric Lindros 38 1992-93 Dave Poulin 76 1983-84 Brian Propp 34 1979-80 Brian Propp 75 1979-80 Ron Flockhart 33 1981-82 Ron Flockhart 72 1981-82 Dave Poulin 31 1983-84 Eric Lindros 67 1992-93 Bill Barber 30 1972-73 Pelle Eklund 66 1985-86 Mark Recchi: 51 goals, 66 assists, 117 points. club record goals: club record points: Reggie Leach 61 1975-76 Bobby Clarke 119 1975-76 Tim Kerr 58 1985-86,86-87 Mark Recchi 117 1992-93 Tim Kerr 54 1983-84,84-85 Bobby Clarke 116 1974-75 Mark Recchi 51 1992-93 Bill Barber 112 1975-76 Rick Macliesh 50 1972-73 Bobby Clarke 104 1972-73 Bill Barber 50 1975-76 Rick Macliesh 100 1972-73 Reggie Leach 50 1979-80 FLYERS career years: Player Points Best Prior Season Mark Recchi 117 113 (90-91 Penguins) Rod Brind'Amour 79 77 (91-92 FLYERS) Garry Galley 58 38 (84-85 Kings) Brent Fedyk 58 35 (90-91 Red Wings) That's all for now...
Sunlight shining off of the ocean.
Sure nails can be cruel. I'd imagine nails in your eyes would be *very* painful. But, this does not imply that a painless death is cruel, which is what you are supposed to be trying to show.
The Nicene Creed WE BELIEVE in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God, begotten of the Father before all worlds, God of God, Light of Light, Very God of Very God, begotten not made, being of one substance with the Father by whom all things were made; who for us men, and for our salvation, came down from heaven and was incarnate by the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary, and was made man, and was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate. He suffered and was buried, and the third day rose again according to the Scriptur es, and ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of the Father. And he shall come again with glory to judge both the quick and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end.
As an animal science student, I know that a number of animals transfer immunoglobin to thier young through thier milk. In fact, a calf _must_ have a sufficient amount of colostrum (early milk) within 12 hours to effectively develop the immune system, since for the first (less than) 24 hours the intestines are "open" to the IG passage. My question is, does this apply to human infants to any degree?
[reply to geb@cs.pitt.edu (Gordon Banks)] I made a decision a while back that I will not be bullied into getting studies like a CT or MRI when I don't think they are indicated. If the patient won't accept my explanation of why I think the study would be a waste of time and money, I suggest a second opinion.
No need to correct it, it stands as it is said. You miss the point entirely. Things defined by contradictory language do not exist. Though something existing might be meant, conclusions drawn from the description are wrong, unless there is the possibility to find the described, and draw conclusions from direct knowledge of the described then. Another possibility is to drop the contradictory part, but that implies that one can trust the concept as presented and that one has not got to doubt the source of it as well. Neither am I. But either things are directly sensed (which includes some form of modelling, by the way) or they are used in modelling. Using something contradictive in modelling is not approved of. Wonder why?
Is there any games being shown here in the US from the WC??? Thanks
"Diet Evangelist". Good term. Fits Atkins to a "T". -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Well, knowing Greek and Hebrew, I'm probably not as picky about translations as I would be if English translations were my only source of information. BUT... (1) Any verse that comes out substantially different in different trans- lations is almost certainly unclear in the original. (2) It is very bad practice to "shop" for a translation that fits your own doctrinal positions. Personally, I still like the RSV. NRSV and NASV are also very good. I have a strong preference for editions that do _not_ indent the beginning of each verse as if verses were paragraphs. The verse numbering is a relatively modern addition and should not be given undue prominence.
National Rifle Association 1600 Rhode Island Ave. NW Washington, DC 20036-3268 1-800-368-5714 (membership)
For those Leaf fans who are concerned, the following players are slated for return on Thursday's Winnipeg-Toronto game : Peter Zezel, John Cullen Mark Osborne and Dave Ellett are questionable to return on Thursday.
We have an old Sun3/60 here which gets occasional use. When X11R5 is started on it any console messages during startup are undeletable. After X is fully started we run an xterm as the "console" - the problem is that any messages that arrive before this starts go to the plain console. "Refresh window" fails to remove them. The messages are a real pain since they sit in the middle of the screen obscuring anything else below them. At boot time the 3/60 lists two framebuffers - /dev/cgfour0 and /dev/bwtwo1. We're running X in color, and I suspect that maybe the offending messages are on the B/W framebuffer, and thereby not getting deleted. My question is: has anyone else seen this, and is there an easy way to get rid of these messages? Please reply by e-mail to hughm@inmos.co.uk. Hugh McIntyre. INMOS Ltd., Bristol, UK. (BTW: SunOS 4.0.3, X11R5, mwm).
When you force people to associate with others against their will, yes.
... [shameless woofing deleted] On behalf of the rest of us Tiger fans out here, I appoligize for this shameless woofing. We try to keep it to a minimum, but we did WIN A GAME the other day, so sometimes it's hard to control. see: Phillies Fans
For all those people who insist I question authority: Why? Chris Mussack
I think that you are changing the meaning of "values" here. Perhaps it is time to backtrack and take a look at the word. value n. 1. A fair equivalent or return for something, such as goods or service. 2. Monetary or material worth. 3. Worth as measured in usefulness or importance; merit. 4. A principle, standard, or quality considered inherently worthwhile or desirable. 5. Precise meaning, as of a word. 6. An assigned or calculated numerical quantity. 7. Mus. The relative duratation of a tone or rest. 8. The relative darkness or lightness of a color. 9. The distinctive quality of a speech or speech sound. In context of a moral system, definition four seems to fit best. In terms of scientific usage, definitions six or eight might apply. Note that these definitions do not mean the same thing. In my mind, to say that science has its basis in values is a bit of a reach. Science has its basis in observable fact. Even the usages of the word "value" above do not denote observable fact, but rather a standard of measurement. I would conclude that science does not have its basis in values, and so your statement above fails. In fact, if one concludes that a scientific set of measurements (values) are based on systems derived from observation, then it must follow that in a scientific context, there is no such thing as there is no such thing as "objective values." Back to the present. This has nothing to do with a moral system anyhow. Just because the word "values" is used in both contexts does not mean that there is a relationship between the two contexts. If one is to argue for objective values (in a moral sense) then one must first start by demonstrating that morality itself is objective. Considering the meaning of the word "objective" I doubt that this will ever happen. So, back to the original question: And objective morality is.....? If you can provide an objective foundation for "morality" then that will be a good beginning.
(Detroit, April 19) In a development that shocked most knowledgable observers, the Detroit Redwings scored no less than six goals against the best goaltender in the world en route to a 6-3 win over the best team in the NHL, the Toronto Maple Leafs. The Leafs could not be faulted, as they completely dominated the inferior Detroit squad and clearly deserved to win. Only the biased officiating of Andy Van Hellemond and the idiots that insisted upon throwing an octopus on the ice at every stoppage in an obvious attempt to distract the superior visiting side prevented an all-out massacre of the Wings by the league's best team. Alan
I can't imagine why someone would leave their computer on all of the time to start with. Its like leaving your lights tv, radio and everything in the house on all of the time to me.....Nuts
>In article <1993Apr19.020359.26996@sq.sq.com>, msb@sq.sq.com (Mark Brader) MB> So the MB> 1970 figure seems unlikely to actually be anything but a perijove. JG>Sorry, _perijoves_...I'm not used to talking this language. Couldn't we just say periapsis or apoapsis?
This is one of my favorite fallacious points against atheism, i.e. the belief that you can't deny anything that you can't prove doesn't exist. This is easily nailed by showing that an infinite number of beings are conceivable but not observed to exist, does this mean that we would have to believe in all of them? According to the above poster, we must believe in objects or beings that haven't been proved not to exist so why stop at God? (there could be a huge number of beings identical to Ronald Reagan except for trivial differences, say one is missing a finger, one has blond hair,... and they all live on other planets so we can't see them) The reason no one but atheists bring this up is that none of these christians have a vested interest in these unknown beings with the exception of God. How did they shoot themselves in the foot? There is a big difference here, Stalin didn't say that he stood for a particular moral position (i.e. against murder and terrorism, etc.) and then did the opposite (like the religious movements), he was at least an honest killer. (This is NOT a support of Stalin but an attack on this viewpoint). Saying that atheism supports murder and violence just because one man was a tyrant and an atheist is just bad logic, look at all the russians that helped Stalin that weren't atheists - don't they contradict your point? Besides your point assumes that his atheism was relevant to his murdering people, this is just the common assumption that atheists can't value life as much as theists (which you didn't support). Ah, and here's another point you didn't get out of the FAQ. An atheist doesn't have to hold the positive view that god doesn't exist, he/she may just have the non-existence of the positive belief. Here's the example: Strong atheism - "I believe god does not exist" a positive belief Weak atheism - "I don't believe in a god" a negative belief these are NOT the same, some one that has never thought of the idea of god in their whole life is technically an atheist, but not the kind that you are calling unreasonable. Or let's look at it this way (in sets) suppose that a given person has a huge set of ideas that I will represent as capital letters and these people then either believe that these ideas exist as real objects or not. So if S = santa, then E(S)= no is the person not believing in santa but still having the idea of santa. But notice that even E(S) = no is itself another idea! This means you have lots of cases: christian : (A,E(A)=yes,B,E(B)=no, . . . G,E(G)=yes......) where G = god atheist (strong) : (A,E(A). . . . .G,E(G)=no) atheist (weak) : (A,.....E) i.e. no G at all in the set agnostic : (A,.......G, E(G) = indeterminate, E', ....) Nietzsche once said that a man would rather will nonexistence than not will at all but the darwinist way to put this is that humanity always prefers no or yes to a maybe because indecision is not a useful survival trait, evolution has drilled it in us to take positions, even false ones.
Hi... I'm not a religious guy so dont take this as some kinda flame (thanx in advance) I want to know why there are so many different versions of the bible? There "....contains inaccurate data and inconsistencies." Thanx in advance... Shaz.... [I'm not sure quite what you mean by many different versions. The primary distinction in versions you see today is in the style of the translation. It's pretty unusual to see significant differences in meaning. There are a few differences in the underlying text. That's because before printing, manuscripts were copied by hand. Slight differences resulted. There are enough manuscripts around that scholars can do a pretty good job of recreating the original, but there are some uncertainties. Fortunately, they are generally at the level of minor differences in wording. There are something like 3 or 4 places where whole sentences are involved, but with recent discoveries of older manuscripts, I don't think there's much uncertainly about those cases. As far as I know, no Christians believe that the process of copying manuscripts or the process of translating is free of error. But I also don't think there's enough uncertainty in establishing the text or translating it that it has much practical effect. Whether the Bible contains inaccurate data and inconsistences is a hot topic of debate here. Many Christians deny it. Some accept it (though most would say that the inaccuracies involved are on details that don't affect the faith). But this has nothing to do with there being multiple versions. The supposed inconsistences can be found in all the versions. I'm surprised to find a reference to this on the title page though. What version are you talking about? I've been referring to major scholarly translations. These are what get referenced in postings here and elsewhere. There have certainly been editions that are (to be kind) less widely accepted. This includes everything from reconstructions that combine parallel accounts into single narrations, to editions that omit material that the editor objects to for some reason or the other. The copyright on the Bible has long since expired, so there nothing to stop people from making editions that do whatever wierd thing they want. However the editions that are widely used are carefully prepared by groups of scholars from a variety of backgrounds, with lots of crosschecks. I could imagine one of the lesser-known editions claiming to have fixed up all inaccurate data and inconsistencies. But if so, it's not any edition that's widely used. The widely used ones leave the text as is. (Weeeeelllllll, almost as is. It's been alleged that a few translations have fudged a word or two here and there to minimize inconsistencies. Because translation is not an exact science, there are always going to be differences in opinion over which word is best, I'm afraid.)
I have a small program to extract a 640x480 image from a vga 16 color screen, and store that image in a TIFF file. I need to insert the image into a sales brochure, which I then need printed in 4 color. On a mac, I would use Photoshop to separate the image into 5 EPS files, and then pull it into quark express, then get it printed to film on a lintronix at a service bureau. However, I don't have a mac, but I do have windows. What would I need to do this type of operation in the windows 3.1 environment? Are there any separation programs available on the net? Is there a good page layout program that I should look into? Thanks in advance.
I nead a utility for updating (deleting, adding, changing) *.ini files for Windows. Do I find it on any FTP host?
My wife has become interested through an acquaintance in Post-Polio Syndrome This apparently is not recognised in New Zealand and different symptons ( eg chest complaints) are treated separately. Does anone have any information on it Thanks
Does anyone know the approximate prescription cost of a 250 ml bottle of Roxonal (morphine)?
Still no good. WatchIT TV will not work on a with local bus video. It will not work in any high reolution modes either. The people who make the card assure me that they will have a card available in June that supports both local-bus and hi-res. BTW does anyone know the name of the company who makes watchit tv? Phone #? BBS? Internet? Thanks
Newsgroups: rec.sport.hockey Subject: Re: NHL team in Milwaukee Summary: Expires: Sender: Distribution: Organization: Marquette University - Department MSCS Keywords: Lloyd Pettit married into Allen-Bradley Corp. (ab.com) family and owns the Admirals. He donated the Bradley Center and the new Pettit National Ice Center. This is not the way I have heard it. See, Lloyd (as he is affectionately referred to by Milwaukeeans and Bob Uecker) bought the Bradley Center *TO* get the NHL to come here. Yeah, the Bucks, the Milwaukee Wave (soccer), the Admirals, the Marquette Warriors, concerts and a bunch of other things...
The book is called "27 basic fundamental beliefs" or something very close to that. the number *IS* 27, not 30. I have a copy at home (i'm away at school.)
>But is it any worse than the current unsecure system? It becomes much >worse, of course, if the government then uses this "Clinton Clipper" >to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (This is the main >concern of most of us, I think. The camel's nose in the tent, etc.) Excuse me? This has *already* happened. There's a couple of humps in the tent already. Ask the folks at Qualcomm what became of the non-trivial encryption scheme they proposed for use in their CDMA digitial cellular phone standard? There *already* are restrictions in place. You have it slightly wrong. They dumped the encryption system because they could not export it -- not because they could not produce it for U.S. use. There are no legal restraints on citizen use of strong cryptography -- yet. -- Perry Metzger pmetzger@shearson.com
#The fact that she was wearing a miniskirt with no underwear was #presented as evidence that she was a prostitute, and the court #apparently found this compelling. Ah, I know women who wear miniskirts without wearing underwear, and they are not prostitutes. #Because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the #Marines were engaged in self-defense. Got it, knucklehead? Gee, Both Clayton and Kaldis engaging in ad hominem arguments. I presented evidence that what you said is *NOT* what the judge ruled. Provide your evidence. Repeating a false claim is not evidence.
If given a definite definition of "God", it is sometimes possible to falsify the existance of that God. But, when one refuses to give an immutable definition, one can not. --- " Whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. "
PC Mag only got around 9-10 Winmarks when they tested the Steal 24. It sounds like you are ok. jamesc
Jesus also recognized other holy days, like the Passover. Acts 15 says that no more should be layed on the Gentiles than that which is necessary. The sabbath is not in the list, nor do any of the epistles instruct people to keep the 7th day, while Christians were living among people who did not keep the 7th day. It looks like that would have been a problem. Instead, we have Scriptures telling us that all days can be esteemed alike (Romans 14:5) and that no man should judge us in regard to what kind of food we eat, Jewish holy days we keep, or _in regard to the sabbath. (Col. 2.) I don't think that the Sabbath, or any other command of the law is totally irrelevant to modern Christians, but what about Collosions 2, where it says that we are not to be judged in regard to the keeping of the sabbath?
News-Software: UReply 3.1 X-X-From: Wingert@VNET.IBM.com (Bret Wingert) <C5uBn5.tz@zoo.toronto.edu> ======================================================================== A couple of points on this thread. 1. We have been using our processes since way before Challenger. Challenger in and of it self did not uncover flaws. 2. What Mr. Spencer says is by and large true. We have a process that is not dependent on "sophisticated tools" (CASE tools?). However, tools cannot fix a bad process. Also, tool support for HAL/S (the Shuttle Language) is somewhat limited. 3. The Onboard Flight Software project was rated "Level 5" by a NASA team. This group generates 20-40 KSLOCs of verified code per year for NASA. 4. Feel free to call me if you or your organization is interested in more info on our software development process. Bret Wingert (713)-282-7534 FAX: (713)-282-8077 Bret Wingert
about 2.5Kbyte without Novell 3.11 support. No. No. Nearly all. We run mixed WNT beta and W4WG, no problem apart from printer sharing( beta problem) We had problems with mouse drivers using W4WG where Windows 3.1 didn't, seems to be more critical about it. It was actualy a port problem with the network card running on 0x2e0, we changed it to 0x300, now everything is allright, I think it has to do with the AMI Bios as well.
It's hard to know what/who to believe. However, the letter I received from the BATF, in response to one I sent to Bentsen, said that there was a search warrant AND an arrest warrant.
DROPLET VOL 1, No 11, Part 3 D R O P L E T From The Vast Ocean Of The Miraculous Qur'an Translations from the Arabic and Turkish Writings of Bediuzzaman Said Nursi, The Risale-i Noor VOL 1, No 11, Part 3 ------------------------------------------------------------------ NINETEENTH LETTER MU'JIZAT-I AHMEDIYE RISALESI A TREATISE ON THE MIRACLES OF MUHAMMED SAW, Part 3 (continued from Droplet Vol 1, No 11, Part 2) THIRD SIGN: The miracles of Muhammad (SAW) are extremely varied. Because his messengership is universal, he has been distinguished by miracles that relate to almost all species of creation. Just as the supreme aide of a renowned ruler, arriving with many gifts in a city where various people live, will be welcomed by a representative of each people who acclaims him and bids him welcome in his own language so, too, when the supreme messenger of the Monarch of Pre- and Post-Eternity (Ezel and Ebed Sultani) honored the universe by coming as an envoy to the inhabitants of the earth, and brought with him the light of truth and spiritual gifts sent by the Creator of the universe and derived from the realities of the whole universe, each species of creation -from water, rocks, trees, animals and human beings to the moon, sun and stars- welcomed him and acclaimed his prophethood, each in its own language, and each bearing one of his miracles. Now it would require a voluminous work to mention all his miracles. As the punctilious scholars have written many volumes concerning the proofs of His prophethood, here we will briefly point out only the general category into which fall fhe miracles that are definite and accepted as accurate reports. The evidences of the prophethood of Muhammad (SAW) fall into two main categories: The first is called irhasat and includes the paranormal events that happened at the time of his birth, or before his declaration of prophethood. The second group pertains to all the remaining evidences of the prophethood, and contains two subdivisions: 1) Those wonders that were manifested after his departure from this world in order to confirm his prophethood, and 2) Those that he exhibited during the era of his prophethood. The latter has also two parts: 2.1) The evidences of his prophethood that became manifest in his own personality, his inner and outer being, his moral conduct and perfection, and 2.2) The miracles that: related to substantial matters. The last part again has two branches: 2.2.1) Those concerning the Qur'an and spirituality, and 2.2.2) Those relating to matter and creation. This last branch is again divided into two categories: 2.2.2.1) The first involves the paranormal happenings that occured during his mission either to break the stubbornness of the unbelievers, or to augment the faith of the belivers. This category has twenty different sorts, such as the splitting of the moon, the flowing of water from the fingers, the satisfying of large numbers with a little food, and the speaking of trees, rocks and animals Each of these sons has also many instances, and thus has, in meaning, the strength of confirmation by consensus. 2.2.2.2) As for the second category, this includes events lying in the future that occured as he had predicted upon Allah (SWT)'s instructions. Now starting from the last category, we will summarize a list of them.(1) (1) Unfonunately, I could not write as I had intended without choice, I wrote as my head dictated, and I could not completely conform to the order of this classification.
Thanks to everyone who sent replies regarding this case. A few of them were very informative and helped very much.
It seemed pretty conclusive to me. The puck clearly hit the crossbar and then came down on the line. And the announcers, admittedly homers, kept harping about how they "must have had a different view upstairs" because it was obvious to them, and, I would have thought, to anyone who saw the replay, that the puck didn't go in. The referee originally signalled no goal but the video replay "judges" initiated contact with the referee to claim that a goal was in fact scored. This, to me, is unheard of. Seeing stuff like this happen gives me a bad feeling about the Leaf chances this year. cordially, as always, rm
My own personal and highly subjective opinion is that freedom is a good thing. However, when I here people assert that the only "true" freedom is in following the words of this and that Messiah, I realise that people don't even agree on the meaning of the word. What does it mean to say that word X represents an objective value when word X has no objective meaning?
It seems pretty obvious that it will be made illegal if VERY LOUD NOISE is not made about this IMMEDIATELY to Congress and the House! I don't know what's worse - the waste of money, or the fact that (in SPITE of all Clinton's rhetoric to the contrary) this is a feeble attempt by a large group of bored intelligence bureaucrats to justify their currently useless jobs. Clinton said he was going to trim the fat from the government. This doesn't look very dietetic to me! As I said before in this group: drug dealing and terrorism both tend to be international crimes which are not going to cease if the US starts to regulate encryption. The drug dealers and terrorists will simply go to other countries to communicate their plans, and will still carry them out here and/or wherever else. This is not the solution to the problem. They try to invent a new problem by saying we "need" encryption. I guess it's a good thing Bill Gates isn't a 4-star general or we would all "need" our own copies of MS-DOS too, right? Und vee haff vays uff findink out iff you are usink DOCTOR DOS!! Our health care and education systems are in the toilet and they come up with THIS pearl. If this goddamned government doesn't get a clue real quick and start trying to repair the infrastructure of the country rather than inventing someone to blame, Germany and Japan are going to eat the US alive, and we will deserve it. It's not like there's any shortage of REAL problems to solve, guys! A Clipper chip is really going to help the homeless! A Clipper chip is really going to help educate the children in the ghettos of our cities! Just think of the generation gap that can be developed when they rehire DoD engineer dad to work on Clipper chips that will be used to decrypt slightly rebellious adolescent hacker son's naughty GIF files! I can see the shitcom already. If that wasn't a forged post or a sick joke, I'm popping that Dead Kennedys tape into the car stereo and tearing ass to Canada. Clinton on White Horse is near. It's the suede/denim secret police! They have come for your uncool niece! Don't worry it's only a phone...shit, I knew I should have gotten some of those "consent to monitoring" stickers they keep on Autovon phones when I had the chance. I should have known I'd need them in civilian life.
As to how many clients may be display on a server, I believe the limit would be how much memory is available to your server or allocated by the server.
That is great to hear I just may have to take a raod trip to Milwakee this year and see that again. Last time I saw Bernie Brewer was at the age of 10 and I am now 21 thanks for this post. Good to Bill is getting better form the limited coverage we get here in Iowa I know that this will be a great season for the BREW CREW!!
No, I say religious law applies to those who are categorized as belonging to the religion when event being judged applies. This prevents situations in which someone is a member of a religion who, when charged, claims that he/she was _not_ a member of the religion so they are free to go on as if nothing had happened.
Their phone number is 1-800-377-9777. The last catalog shows three Oaks jerseys: 36 Home, 42 Home, 39 Home - they're each $165.00. All their merchandise is handmade and is an authentic replica. I own a couple - and they are excellent. They also have wool caps and jackets. You should call to get on their mailing list even if you can't afford their prices.
You might try asking on one of the comp.sys.ibm.* echos (the best one may be comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware). I say this because the conversion seems more geared toward a PC user wanting to use that monitor, than an Atari user who already can use the monitor (unless maybe they want to really go wild - converting the monitor to VGA, then using it as a VGA monitor with a Falcon :-) As for graphics cards, assuming that the Atari monitor can be modified/adapted to handle VGA signals, you should probably be able to use any VGA card (at least with a res around 640x400). I haven't tried this, but that would be my guess... Robert Anisko anisko@usdtsg.daytonoh.ncr.com
(Robert L. McMillin) rants: And how did the "free love advocates of the 1960's" manage to perform this demolition--forced breeding programs or something? Now let me get this straight. After a nice, long rant about how people need to take personal responsibility for their economic and social lives, all of a sudden 1960's radicals (such as me, I guess) are responsible for poor people's lifestyles? Tell me how that works--or do you think that poor people are just too dumb to think for themselves? There are many reasons for the disintegration of the family and support systems in general among this nation's poor. Somehow I don't think Murphy Brown--or Janis Joplin--is at the top of any sane person's list. You want to go after my generation's vaunted cultural revolution for a lasting change for the worse, try so-called "relevant" or "values" education. Hey, it seemed like a good idea at the time. How were we to know you needed a real education first--I mean, we took that for granted.
Thanks for all your assistance. I'll see if he can try a different brand of patches, although he's tried two brands already. Are there more than two? Melissa --- mmatusev@radford.vak12ed.edu "After a time you may find that having is not so pleasing a thing after all as wanting. It is not logical, but it is often true."
Of your spelling, eh? Dr Zippy.
I have been looking at some of the recent productions on homosexuality and decided that I was interested in videotaped copies of these. If anyone can help me out here, I would very much appreciate it. Here is what I am looking for: * - "The Gay Agenda" produced by Ty Beeson's group The Report. * - John Ankerberg's recent series "Understanding Homosexuality and Experiencing Genuine Change." * - James Kennedy's special on homosexuality which aired this week, and the portion of the previous week's program which discussed "The Gay Agenda." I will not pay money for copies, since this is copyrighted material and that would be illegal. I will pay for return postage. If somebody can think of something they would desire in trade, please let me know and I'll see what I can do. Oh, BTW, I'm watching the March On Washington right now on C-SPAN. Other than the fact that I'm generally repulsed by what I'm watching, I found one thing of interest. General David Dinkins just finished speaking, and remarked that the New York City delegation consists of about 200,000 people. Funny, I don't see 200,000 people out there, period. Must've been quite the party scene last night. Or maybe their exaggerations were just too much. Sean Patrick Ryan****fsspr@aurora.alaska.edu or sean@freds.cojones.com 3215 Oregon Dr. #2, Anchorage, AK 99517-2048****907-272-9184****fnord Abortion stops a beating heart****Disclaimer: I didn't inhale, either IDITAROD SCOREBOARD 1993 - MEN 16, WOMEN 5****Read alt.flame.sean-ryan
There's documentation on how to use the shared memory extension in the X11R5 distribution. Actually, I just finished writing a motif animation program... (take-lots-of-image-data-and-display-it-pretty-darn-fast). When using on-server pixmaps or shared memory, I had to insert a delay loop to keep it from going too quickly :). Testing both methods side by side, they were just about equal. The advantage of SHM is that your X server doesn't grow to ridiculous sizes; but pixmaps can work over a network and *are* removed if your application dies (one tends to use ipcrm manually quite a bit when debugging SHM apps). Shared memory also has the problem that some operating systems (e.g. Ultrix) seem to allow only a small number of segments (~6) to be attached to a process at once; consequently, a redraw becomes XShmAttach();XShmPutImage();XShmDetach(); on Dec systems. And Dec's 24 bit displays (like the ones I tend to use most often) don't seem to support the extension (maybe someone compiled them wrong?), and using pixmaps causes the X server to crash (failed mallocs), so one *has* to use the local unix domain socket (which really isn't that bad; one copies the info three times per redraw instead of one). In short: allowing all three forms of display, within the program is a Good Thing (minus SHM if running over a network), and let the user pick whatever feels fastest. (I just use an ximagehandler class and forget about it :)
Do you mean the icons _of_ the program groups, or the icons of the individual programs _in_ the program groups? I assume you mean the latter, and the answer is: sure you can. Just click once (not double) on the application icon, then Alt-F P (File | Properties). Click on the Change Icon box and tell it the icon filename. Or use the Browse sub-selection. I use Alt-Tab. Hold the Alt key and repeatedly press Tab until you see Program Mangler up. Then release the Alt key.
Portuguese launch complex??? Gosh.... Polish are for American in the same way as Portuguese are for Brazilians (I am from Brazil). There is a joke about the Portuguese Space Agency that wanted to send a Portuguese astronaut to the surface of the Sun (if there is such a thing). How did they solve all problems of sending a man to the surface of the Sun??? Simple... their astronauts travelled during the night... C.O.EGALON@LARC.NASA.GOV C.O.Egalon@larc.nasa.gov
I get it. One organization wants to abolish age of consent laws, whereas in contrast the other wants to abolish age of consent laws. This makes it respectable to belong to one organization, but not the other.
No, there is something called the "Delany Amendment" which makes carcinogenic food additives illegal in any amount. This was passed by Congress in the 1950's, before stuff like mass spectrometry became available, which increased detectable levels of substances by a couple orders of magnitude. This is why things like cyclamates and Red #2 were banned. They are very weakly carcinogenic in huge quantities in rats, so under the Act they are banned. This also applies to natural carcinogens. Some of you might remember a time back in the 1960's when root beer suddenly stopped tasting so good, and never tasted so good again. That was the time when safrole was banned. This is the active flavoring ingredient in sassafras leaves. If it were possible to market a root beer good like the old days, someone would do it, in order to make money. The fact that no one does it indicates that enforcement is still in effect.
Posted by Cathy Smith for L. Neil Smith LETTER TO A LIBERAL COLLEAGUE [AUTHOR'S NOTE: "Adrian" -- name changed to protect the guilty -- and the author are science fiction novelists who once worked with the same editor at a famous New York publishing house.] Dear Adrian: I'm way behind schedule on my current book again, so this reply to your note -- criticizing the recent magazine interview I gave and generally attacking gun ownership -- will necessarily consist mostly of assertions you're free to believe (or not) I can back with evidence and logic I've neither time nor energy to present now. I've written fully on this topic before and will again in the future. When I do, I'll make sure you get copies. There are many arguments I might make, from the futility and danger of delegating self-defense to the police (see Don Kates in the Jan. 10, 1985 WALL STREET JOURNAL) to the real effect of prohibition, shifting consumers from newly-outlawed handguns or semiautomatic rifles to items like sawed-off shotguns or homemade bombs, but I'll limit myself here to commenting on the newspaper clipping you sent with your note. First, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Second, publication of some latter-day "scientific study" doesn't alter the fact that the gun prohibitionists I discussed in my interview -- annoying you so much in the process -- were lying. Third, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Fourth, as often happens with these things, the "study" doesn't support the gun prohibitionists' original numerical contentions anyway, but simply adds a new layer of spurious claims to an older body of lies, omissions, and distortions. Fifth, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Sixth, the fact that gun prohibitionists have been caught lying on countless occasions (Carl Bakal, author of NO RIGHT TO KEEP AND BEAR ARMS, even confessed to it publicly) makes the value of this present "study" dubious, to say the least. Seventh, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Eighth, given your own lifelong service as a federal bureaucrat (not to mention the cynical sophistication of your fiction), you should be better aware than most people how "progress" -- in designing "studies" to prove whatever you want -- outstrips our ability to collect meaningful data. A case in point we might agree on is the fact that it took another kind of prohibitionist 20 or 30 years to create "studies" "proving" that pornography causes crime. More naive (and probably more honest) efforts in the 50s and 60s clearly indicate the contrary. Ninth, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Tenth, another reason to doubt all such "studies" is that human behavior (as the Austrian School of economics demonstrates) is far too complex and unpredictable to be meaningfully quantified. The attempt to do so -- and then create public policy based on the resulting pseudo-information -- is wrecking our civilization. Eleventh, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Twelfth, the "study" is also worthless because it incorporates figures for suicide, which is not necessarily a tragedy but basically another individual right, sometimes with ancillary social benefits. If anything, perhaps suicide INTERVENTION should be a criminal offense. Thirteenth and finally, the National Rifle Association officials quoted in the article, whatever their shortcomings (and they are many), are correct in this instance: the "study" is meaningless because the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. And because of that, Adrian, even if the "study" were valid, it wouldn't deter me from a lifelong personal objective of seeing that anyone can own any weapon he or she prefers and carry it however, whenever, and wherever he or she desires without asking anybody's permission. In this I'm ably assisted by gun prohibitionists themselves, whose yawping invariably moves previously unarmed people to go out and buy their first gun "while they still can". Before the '68 Gun Control Act, most of the "shooting fraternity" viewed handguns (incorrectly, as it turned out) as inaccurate, ineffective toys. There probably weren't six million of them in the whole country. Now, thanks to Kennedy, Metzenbaum, the Bradys, and their ilk -- AMERICA'S GREATEST SPORTING GOODS SALES TEAM -- we probably manufacture at least that many every year. The fascinating datum is that Handgun Control, et al. are perfectly aware of this -- so I guess you'll have to ask them yourself what their real motives are. Look: gun-making isn't an arcane or difficult art (and by the way, it's easier to make a fully automatic weapon than a semiautomatic; the fact that I can still obtain my own weapon of preference, the self-loading pistol, is the only thing which keeps me from pursuing this further). Even if it were difficult, there are already a quarter billion firearms in America, with an estimated "half life" of 1000 years -- possibly more for stainless steel. Guns are gonna be around a long time, Adrian, whether you like it or not. As for me, to paraphrase Elmer Keith, regardless of what the law provides or any court decides, I'm always going to be armed. And I will always work to see that others are, as well. The bad news is that there are thousands more -- perhaps even hundreds of thousands -- where I come from. We can't be stopped by passing laws, we can only be forced to arm ourselves and others secretly and -- given both the practical and alleged differences between full automatics and semiautomatics -- perhaps more efficiently. So what's the point? L. Neil Smith Author: THE PROBABILITY BROACH, THE CRYSTAL EMPIRE, HENRY MARTYN, and (forthcoming) PALLAS LEVER ACTION BBS (303) 493-6674, FIDOnet: 1:306/31.4 Libertarian Second Amendment Caucus NRA Life Member
The traditions of the church hold that all the "apostles" (meaning the 11 surviving disciples, Matthias, Barnabas and Paul) were martyred, except for John. "Tradition" should be understood to read "early church writings other than the bible and heteroorthodox scriptures".
I have and use xrecplay for X11R5. Does one exist for X11R4??? I have tried to contact one of the developers, Eric Swildens, at ess@hal.com but he is no longer there and has no forwarding email address. Archie is no help either. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks,
If anyone is interested in the history of AMORC, I do think Spencer Lewis published books about the beginning and his mission. The Alexandria bookstore (that's the name of the book store operated by AMORC) should have a selection that should provide the interested reader more insight). Cheers, Kent
HMMM... that brings up a neat idea. Unfortunately, it's SOOO neat, I think I ought to patent it. So I can't tell you about it. Sorry. :-) -Bill Copyright 1993 William S. Yerazunis (aka Crah the Merciless) All rights reserved, no responsibility taken.
Yes I fully agree with that, but is it "I don't believe gods exist", or "I believe no gods exist"? As MANDTBACKA@FINABO.ABO.FI (Mats Andtbacka) pointed out, it all hinges on what you take the word "believe" to mean. Unfortunately this is bound up in the definitions of strong and weak atheism, at least according to the FAQ: # Atheism is characterized by an absence of belief in the existence of God. # Some atheists go further, and believe that God does not exist. The former is # often referred to as the "weak atheist" position, and the latter as "strong # atheism". # # It is important to note the difference between these two positions. "Weak # atheism" is simple scepticism; disbelief in the existence of God. "Strong # atheism" is a positive belief that God does not exist. Please do not # fall into the trap of assuming that all atheists are "strong atheists". (From mathew's "An Introduction to Atheism" version 1.2 last modified 5-Apr-93) Should the FAQ be clarified to try to pin down this notion of "belief"? Can it?
I would be grateful to anyone who knows about an X-windows application that would emulate HP 2623A graphics in a manner similar to the way TEK graphics windows are implemented in xterm. Thanks for you help.
I have just installed a Diamond Stealth 24 ISA card in a '486DX2-66 system with 256K cache, and 16 megs of memory, that gets about a 126 SI 6.0 CPU Benchmark rating. Using the 1024x768x16 color driver under Windows, I am getting a Winbench Winmarks rating of only about 9.5 Million. Since I have heard that others get 15-to-16 million for this card, I assume that something is very wrong with my setup. What are some possible causes of the card slowing down like this? I ran the Qualitas ASQ diagnostic program on memory, and I noted the following memory timings on my machine: ASQ v1.30 by Qualitas SYSTEM ANALYSIS Mon Apr 19, 1993 11:43:49AM page: 1 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ACCESS TIMING Hex KB KB Access Speed Ratio (%) Start Start Size Time us 0 25 50 75 100 00000 0 32 396 ****************** 00800 32 32 598 ***************** 01000 64 32 157 ******************** 01800 96 32 180 ******************** 02000 128 64 157 ******************** 03000 192 32 165 ******************** 03800 224 128 156 ******************** 05800 352 96 169 ******************** 07000 448 32 153 ******************** 07800 480 32 188 ******************** 08000 512 96 158 ******************** 09800 608 32 171 ******************** 0A000 640 96 1221 ************** 0B800 736 32 1581 ************ 0C000 768 32 312 ******************* 0C800 800 96 154 ******************** 0E000 896 64 3957 * 0F000 960 64 312 ******************* Note two things on this chart: 1) The video memory appears to be many orders of magnitude slower than system memory. Are there wait states being inserted here, and what would cause that? 2) The EMS Page frame seems to be ridiculously slow, even though it is being mapped to the fast XMS memory in my system through EMM386. What's going on there? Note that my Stealth 24's video BIOS at C000-C7FF is being shadowed through the AMI BIOS. Any ideas on what might be happening here?
It is just as Christ said about his return: "Some will say, 'He is in the desert.' or some will say, 'He is in the wilderness.' But do not believe them. For as lightning flashes east to west so shall the coming of the Son of Man be." { My paraphrase - I think the verse is somewhere in John } Jon ---------------- sig file broken.... please try later...
Maybe I don't know enough to know what I am asking, but with millions of these things about, how could the algorythm possibly stay secret? Couldn't some clever hackers just grind the thing down layer by layer, and see how it worked? --
SOmebody mentioned a re-boost of HST during this mission, meaning that Weight is a very tight margin on this mission. How will said re-boost be done? Grapple, HST, stow it in Cargo bay, do OMS burn to high altitude, unstow HST, repair gyros, costar install, fix solar arrays, then return to earth? My guess is why bother with usingthe shuttle to reboost? why not grapple, do all said fixes, bolt a small liquid fueled thruster module to HST, then let it make the re-boost. it has to be cheaper on mass then usingthe shuttle as a tug. that way, now that they are going to need at least 5 spacewalks, then they can carry an EDO pallet, and sit on station and even maybe do the solar array tilt motor fix.
Well, I'm amazed at how successful this exercise was. I received 20 responses and 4 requests for summary. Thanks to everyone who made it possible. On my own I was able to find out about Codebase, Accsys, and Q+E. Codebase and Accsys are C libraries without SQL. Q+E is a Windows application that can be communicated through Windows DDE calls, where you send a SQL string and receive the results. Most people wrote to tell me about the Paradox Engine from Borland. Other products mentioned were: Microsoft's ODBC, Accsys, Quadbase, Codebase, RBASE, and Q+E. Only ODBC, Quadbase, RBASE, and Q+E have SQL. For myself, I decided on Codebase, mostly because it has an ANSI C portability version that runs under DOS, UNIX, etc, and includes the source code, and portability is important in my application. It works with DBASE, FoxPro, or Clipper files. However, I feel that Microsoft's ODBC looks very promising. It's mostly a formalisation of building and submitting SQL queries, and formatting query results. As the responses say, it's available via ftp, except it's effectively unusuable without two manuals: the "ODBC Programmer's Reference" and the "ODBC SDK Guide". Moreover, ODBC doesn't actually interpret SQL and liase with databases, that's up to drivers that should be provided by database manufacturers. Also, it's Windows only (it's actually an extension to the Windows SDK). Nevertheless, it's a start at a SQL interface standard, and should make life interesting in the future. Here's my original post, followed by the responses, separated by a line of asterisks (*). **************************************************************************** Borland has a product called Paradox Engine that does just what you want. The current version is 3.0, which is fully compatible with (ack) Paradox 4.0. (Why the versions are different, I don't know. PD Engine 2.0 was compatible with Pdox 3.0 and 3.5...). It consists of a rather broad library of functions for accesing database files from both Pascal (I think turbo Pascal 5.5 and up) and C (I think either Microsoft or Borland). Now.. reading the box... it's "Borland Paradox Engine & Database Frameworks". Works with any Borland C/C++, Mocrosoft C 6.01 or later, Turbo C++ for Windows, Turbo Pascal 6.0 or later, TP for Windows 1.0 or later. For Framework applications, BC++ 3.0 or later or MS C/C++ 7.0. It does have support for object useage... I haven't had a real chance to really use it myself... but it looks fairly complete... I'm planning to use it this summer. -Rick -- +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ **************************************************************************** Borland has a product which is called Paradox Engine. I do not know about MS. The paradox engine I know very well, and it definitiely not a replacement for SQL, but it will enable you to save and restore records, has locking, et al. Supposedly the Paradox for Windows was impemented on top of it. --------------------------------------------------------- Charles Parker Phone.(800) 669 9165 Technical Support (617) 498 3321 CenterLine Software, Inc. Fax.(617) 868 6655 cparker@centerline.com cyberspace momma, don't let yer children grow up to be ^ cowboys ... --------------------------------------------------------- **************************************************************************** I know Borland has a library of routines for accessing PARADOX from within a C program. They recently came out with version 3.0. This works with both Borland and Microsoft's C compiler. shailesh bhobe (708) 979-7101 att!psp!smb2 **************************************************************************** MS has put their ODBC SDK into the public domain; it's _big_ (I believe 1.8 MB), but worth downloading over a fast link. Look at ftp.uu.net in vendor/microsoft/odbc-sdk. Also some companies are starting to provide SQL engines; I just got one for RBASE, not exactly cheap at $450, but it allows programs in C or VBASIC (under DOS or Windows) to talk to data bases using SQL functions in your code. hth Walter Knopf Fermilab knopf@fnal.fnal.gov **************************************************************************** Check out the ODBC toolikt from Microsoft. It is available on ftp.uu.net:vendor/microsoft/odbc-sdk. This is the way that we've chosen to access databases from all of our apps. mj -- +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+ +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+ **************************************************************************** Borland sells the "Paradox Engine" which is a C language interface to Paradox, dBase, Btrieve, ans ASCI files. They also sell "Database Frameworks" which includes the engine plus a collection (with source) of C++ classes for using the engine. -- Earl Roethke eroethke@ems.cdc.com **************************************************************************** I actualy have Paradox Engine. It is a library of functions (large model) for accessing the Paradox's databases. It seems to be working fine, but I never did try it thouroughly. It costs ~200$. Hope it will help you... From: David Lefebvre <david@hp817.speedware.com> **************************************************************************** Borland provides a database lib called Paradox Engine which can access and use the database files aswell as many other things. Gary. -- ``````````` bell@nellads.cc.monash.edu.au ````````````````````````````````````` **************************************************************************** Paradox Engine is the library for Paradox . Artur Babecki artur@ii.uj.edu.pl **************************************************************************** Borland sells the Paradox Engine -- which has all the Paradox calls in it. Its hardly SQL though. You can do searches on key fields and on indivual fields, but no comparison operators like <, >=.... so its pretty painful (in my opinion) do do anything besides simple retrieval and inserts/updates. I'm currently using it (I have an eval copy..) and I've linked it in to some entry screens I've written. The Engine library adds about 100K to the size of the program, but you can load it as an overlay using Borland's VROOM manager. Now Borland claims that later versions of the engine will have SQL support but they don't really expect it till late in the year... or even next year They are trying to get thrid parties to help out.. If you have any other questions -- let me know... Mike Kamlet mike@vpnet.chi.il.us **************************************************************************** Yes, borland sells their Paradox Engine separately. It has C, C++, and Pascal interfaces, although the underlying interface is in 'C'. Well at least for version 2.0 of the Engine which I have (costed $99 at Egghead). They now have version 3.0 of the engine, and a separate C++ class package for it. -- Michael D. Kersenbrock ADC Kentrox - Portland, Oregon michaelk@kentrox.com uunet!kentrox!michaelk **************************************************************************** I've used AccSys for Paradox (new version is almost ready for Paradox 4.0) to access Paradox files from C. Its pretty good. Not SQL though. Have heard of Borland Paradox Engine or some such which is supposed to do likewise, but not sure of what it is exactly. Hope this helps, good luck! chris From: fernand@slinky.cs.nyu.edu (Christopher Fernandes) **************************************************************************** Borland sells their "Paradox Engine (3.0)". It's a library of functions for accessing paradox DB files. It comes with libraries for: MS C 7.0 BCC 3.1 Turbo Pascal (v??) and I believe it comes with Turbo Pascal/Win libraries as well. The C libraries come in both DOS and Windows flavors (the win stuff being dll's). When I got it, it also came with Crystal Reports which is a graphical report generator. It allows you to create a generic form and use it within a compiled program using Pdox Engine. I don't know if they still offer it or what the current price is, I paid something like $50-$60 for an upgrade from the earlier version though... Hope this helps... -David Taylor --- **************************************************************************** If you want to do SQL from within your programs, check out QuadBase. I don't have their address oops -- yes I do! : QuadBase Systems, Inc. 790 Lucerne Dr #51 Sunnyvale, CA 94086 (USA) phone: 408-738-6989 (voice) 408-738-6980 (fax) Ask for the SQL/Win demo disk. It looked good to me (I have a background in embedded SQL in Ingres -- this looked real similar). It's a little expensive, but if you order the demo and then just wait they will probably send you a special offer that'll probably run about $500 US. Good luck! Best, Tom DeLosh From: delosh@emunix.emich.edu (Tom Delosh) **************************************************************************** Borland has the Paradox Engine library. It has libraries for both C and Pascal to access Paradox files under DOS/Windows. But for Paradox, I believe you'd have buy have the SQL Link since Pdox itself isn't SQL compliant. I've used the engine for over a year now and have been pretty satisfied with it. Under DOS, it's a real pig. It tacks on about 120K to the size of your programs. tim ma associate programmer university of utah email: tim@src.cppa.utah.edu **************************************************************************** I don't know about Microsoft, but Borland sells the Paradox Engine for C/C++ & Pascal (in one package). And if you want dBase compatible files there is a library called CodeBase from Sequiter software that works with C/C++. From: davidr@rincon.ema.rockwell.com (David J. Ray) **************************************************************************** We're using Q+E database libraries to do what you describe. It's a set of DLL's accessed through a common API to talk to most of the major database formats. We're using it to build an application that queries several databases using SQL queries. _All_ access using Q+E is done using SQL. The package is available through Microway in Melbourne. I believe it is produced by Pioneer Systems in the US. We have no association with Microway or Pioneer Systems other than being satisfied customers. Feel free to mail me for further information. Chris (Programming for NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Chris Hutchinson Box U302 Research Programmer University of New England chris@sulaw.law.su.OZ.AU Armidale NSW 2351 (067) 727 014 **************************************************************************** Paradox Engine 3.0 provides a complete set of C libraries for accessing Paradox tables. However, it seems that it supports only Borland/Turbo C and MicroSoft C. When I tried to compile the engine's sample applications with the Waterloo WATCOM C/C++ (32-bit) compiler, it complains that the library file LLIBCE.LIB is missing even though I am quite certain that the file is NOT part of WATCOM C or the engine. Anybody have any success with other C compilers? Ron.K.Ng@hydro.on.ca -------------------- **************************************************************************** I'm currently developing an app. with Borland's "Paradox Engine for C" (it also comes in Pascal), which has recently gone to version 3.0 (I.e., PX Engine 3.0 is compatible with Paradox 4.0, and downward compat. w/3.5). There are indeed C libs for Fox access, but I can't think of the names offhand - I'm sure someone has already written you in that regard - (I think I just saw an add for a Fox lib in the "C Users Journal", which is a good place to look for this type of package in general, by the way). I've been paying my dues to learn a lot of the quirks of PX Eng. over the past year - wouldn't recommend it for a complex multiuser app.--but I'm staying with it for now--it's like a bad marriage: I've got too much time invested in learning and work-arounds! But if your interest is limited to a simple single-user interface (you want to build your own SQL engine, I take it), PX Engine will do the job easily - it doesn't sound like you'll be bumping into any of the gotchas. If you do, write me; I may be able to point you in the right direction. From: raymond@cruzio.santa-cruz.ca.us (raymond) **************************************************************************** Borland has a "Paradox Engine and Database Framework 3.0" which gives you a "C" (and assembler?) API to Paradox databases. This is part of "BOCA" -- Borland's Object Component Architecture. They have technical briefs on BOCA, PdoxEng, and other products of theirs. From: jdm@jumbo.Read.TASC.COM (James D. McNamara) ------------------- James D. McNamara | TASC -------------------- 55 Walkers Brook Drive | Reading, MA 01867-3238 | 617-942-2000x2948 ****************************************************************************
I don't think such tools exist either. In addition, there's no such thing as objective information. All together, it looks like religion and any doctrines could be freely misused to whatever purpose. This all reminds me of Descartes' whispering deamon. You can't trust anything. So why bother. Cheers, Kent
The following problem is really bugging me, and I would appreciate any help. I create two windows: w1 (child to root) with event_mask = ButtonPressMask|KeyPressMask; w2 (child to w1) with do_not_propagate_mask = ButtonPressMask|KeyPressMask; Keypress events in w2 are discarded, but ButtonPress events fall through to w1, with subwindow set to w2. FYI, I'm using xnews/olvwm. Am I doing something fundamentally wrong here?
Welcome to the conservative judiciary. I think Scalia's point was that you get one chance. If new information comes out later, tough. If the conviced want justice, they have to hope the governor is feeling charitable. There's a guy on death row in Texas that was denied a new trial, dispite evidence of his inocents. It got swept away in the Reagan Revolution...
Here again, the problem with most of the individuals posting here, you take the biblical account as though it were some sort of historical recounting in the modern sense. I would refer you to John Dominic Crossans Book _The Cross That Spoke_ (Pub. Harper and Row, 1988). The earliest texts which we have make no reference to an empty tomb. Nor is an empty tomb necessary for a claim of resurrection. Modern Evangelicals/Fundamentalists have completely missed what the point of resurrection is -- Here the work of George Nickelsburg's work _Resurrection, Immortality, and Eternal Life in Intertestamental Judaism_ (Publ Cambridge, Havard Univ. Press, 1972) is most helpful. Look At Rom 1:1-3. Paul here has no need of an empty tomb. Additionally in 1 Cor 15, Here again there is no mention of an empty tomb. He was raised (note the passive), he appeared, no ascension either. Resurrection could be accomplished without ever disturbing the bones in the grave. The whole idea of an empty tomb isn't broached in any of our texts until well after the fall of Jerusalem. By that time, the idea of coming up with a body would have been ludicrious. Moreover Mack has argued (convicingly, I think) that the empty tomb story first appears in Mark (we have no texts before this which mention the tomb). You are quite right here. Even the Idea of a subjective mystical event as the foundation of the resurrection narratives is currently becoming more untenable. See B. Mack _A Myth of Innocence_.
From Denning: the Skipjack encryption algorithm F, an 80-bit family key that is common to all chips N, a 30-bit serial number U, an 80-bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip E[M; K], the encrypted message stream, and E[E[K; U] + N; F], a law enforcement block. Where the session key is K, and is transmitted encrypted in the unit Key U. Which along with the serial number N is encrypted in the Family key F. Presumably the protocol can be recovered (if by nothing else, differential analysis). Postulate if you will, a chip (or logic) sitting between the clipper chip and its communications channel. The function of this spoof chip is twofold: 1) Transmit Channel The spoof chip XORs the 30 bit encrypted serial number with a secondary keying variable. This renders the serial number unrecoverable with just the family key 2) Receive Channel The spoof chip XORs the incoming encrypted serial number with a secondary keying variable (assuming integrity of the law enforcement block is necessary for local operation - checksums, sequence control, etc.). This has the net result of hiding the serial number. It is probable theere is a known plaintext pattern used as a filler in the block containing N (34 bits as used in generating U, U1,U2) correctness of the law enforcement block can be determined with only the family key F. Whereas, no one has proposed Federal Agencies be denied F, and because they could recover it themselves, The correctness of the serial number can be tested by examining the pad bits of N in E[N; F]. The one could selectively alter the law enforcement block as above, but the mutilation could be detected. A better approach would be to mutilate the entire law enforcement block. If it were done with a group encryption scheme such as DES or (presumably) Skipjack, the chances the law enforcement block can be recovered are lessened. What do you want to bet the transmission protocol can be recognized and the serial numbers decrypted in a target search? When digital transmission becomes widely available, would there be a requirement that clipper protocol transmissions be refused when containing mutilated law enforcement blocks? One way to avoid notice, would be to spoof protocol information of the block containing M, as well as spoofing the law enforcement block. The goal is to use a secure communications scheme, without redress to detection or key K interception (contained encrypted within the law enforcement block). The data stream is returned to its original state for use by the clipper chip (or system) if required, for proper operation. It is somewhat improbable that the entire protocol will be contained within the clipper chip, yet likely that sequence of events will be tested for, requiring a valid law enforcement block to be received before accepting and decrypting E(M; K); The spoof chip could be implemented anywhere in the protocols, including on the resulting serial data stream. Existing clipper products could be subborned. After all, they are high security encryption systems right? Super encipherment/encryption could allow the chip to be used without redress to detection of the use of the chip, or disclosure of the serial number. Security must be adequate to deny the serial number, which should not be recoverable by other means. One can see the use of cut outs for procurring clipper phones, or once the number of units is high enough, stealing them. It would be a mistake on the part of authority, but nice from a point of privacy, if the serial number N were not associated with a particular clipper chip or lot of chips through the manufacturing and distribution process. Hopefully the list of known missing or stolen clipper serial numbers N encrypted with F, and the protocols are not sufficient plaintext to attact the super encrypted clipper stream. This could be further made difficult by altering the temporal and or spatial relationship of the clipper stream to that of the super encrypted stream. Detection of an encrypted stream could tip off the use of the aforementioned scheme. ****************************************************************************** If you could capture valid law enforcement blocks not your own, and use them in a codebook sustitution with your own, where they point to a valid law enforcement block stored in a library utilizing a session key matching the remainder of the transmission, you could simply out and out lie, yet deliver to monitoring and/or hostile forces a seemingly valid law enforcement block. These captured law enforcement blocks would be used as authenticators, such as in a manually keyed encryption system. Fending this off would require escalation in examining the protocols and blocks in the transmission. The M code stream might be independently attacked based on knowledge of clipper chip protocols as revealed plaintext. This could be invalidated by changing the temporal and or spatial relationship of the clipper M stream and the actual transmitted stream, under the control of a secure key generator synchronized between endpoints. The useful life time of captured law enforcement blocks might be limited based on hostile forces using them as targets following transmission interception. You would need a large number of them, but, hey there's supposed to be millions of these things, right? Adding time stamps to the encrypted law enforcement block is probably impractical, who wants an encryption chip with a real time clock? *****************************************************************************
Darren> In an earlier article, I explained that what many people find Darren> arrogant about Christians is that some Christians profess Darren> absolute certainty about their beliefs and doctrines. and Darren> In short, the problem is that no matter how good your sources Darren> are, if any part of your doctrines or beliefs rest on your own Darren> thinking and reasoning, then those doctrines are suspect. The point that Darren raises is a very Lutheran viewpoint. While reason is a gift from God, it is also infected by sin. Yet we do not reject reason entirely--and neither, I think, does Darren. We need reason, as Darren himself has pointed out, to comprehend God's revelation of himself in the Bible. But reason alone is not sufficient to comprehend and believe the Word. We need, first and foremost, faith. For "the sinful mind is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law, *nor can it do so*" (Romans 8:7). Luther accepted Scripture as the sole means of revelation ("Sola Scriptura"), but accepted the necessity of the use of reason (with faith) in comprehending that revelation. Yet Luther also said, regarding baptism, "But mad reason rushes forth, and, because Baptism is not dazzling like the works which we do, regards it as worthless." (Large Catechism, Fourth part, Baptism). To make matters more complicated, Luther was the sort of theologian that many people would describe as an `absolutist'. I've seen him described as a `take no prisoners' theologian. We might conclude, given these observations, that Luther was inconsistent or mad. And surely at least some have come to that conclusion. But it might be useful to recall that Jesus was also called mad. And Peter felt compelled to defend himself and the apostles against a charge of drunkenness on Pentecost. So we as Christians ought to be careful about rejecting Luther (or others) as mad. Rather, we should imitate the Bereans, who examined the Scriptures every day to see if what Paul said was true (Acts 17:11). The basis for the confidence with which Luther, Peter, Paul, and many others preached the gospel was not just reason, but faith and the Holy Spirit. This is not faith divorced from reason, but a faith that guides, informs, and uses reason. The Spirit enables us to know the truth and to proclaim it boldly. God does not want us to preach the message that "I think that Jesus might have risen from the dead" but rather "I know that my redeemer lives!" (Job 19:25). The Christian does not side with Pilate in saying "What is truth?" but rather follows Christ, who said, "In fact, for this reason I was born, and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth. Everyone on the side of truth listens to me" (John 18:37). We can know the truth because God has promised us that we can know the truth. Jesus said, "If you hold to my teachings, you are really my disciples. Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free" (John 8:31,32). The Proverbs urge us "Buy the truth, and do not sell it." (Pr 23:23). The Psalmist prayed "Do not snatch to word of truth from my mouth" (Ps 119:43). Evidently he believed that the word of truth was in fact `in his mouth'. Yet we do indeed appear arrogant if our claim to the truth is motivated by self-glorification. But if we present the truth as the teachings of Scripture, revealed by the Spirit, and not our own invention, and if we stand ready to be proved wrong on the basis of Scripture, as Luther did, then we are not arrogant, but humble. We should humbly trust in God's promise of truth, just as we trust in his promise of forgiveness. REXLEX> It is only because of God's own revelation that we can be REXLEX> absolute about a thing. Darren> But how far does that get you? Once God's revelation stops, Darren> and your own reasoning begins, possibility for error appears. I agree that we must make a distinction between the clear teachings of Scripture, and the products of our own reason--even when such reasoning is based on Scripture. However I think I would draw the line of distinction more `reasonably' :-) and less `academically' than you would. Darren> For example, let's suppose that our modern Bible translations Darren> include a perfect rendering of Jesus words at the Last Supper, Darren> and that Jesus said, exactly, "This is my body." Darren> We'll presume that what he said was totally without error and Darren> absolutely true. What can we be certain of? Not much. Darren> At the moment he stops speaking, and people start Darren> interpreting, the possibility of error appears. Did he mean Darren> that literally or not? We do not have any record that he Darren> elaborated on the words. Was he thinking of Tran- or Con- Darren> substantiation? He didn't say. Darren is almost at the point of making a very Lutheran statement about the Lord's supper. The Lutheran approach is to say that if Jesus said, "This is my body," then that is what we should believe. Other interpretations are rejected simply because they are not taught in Scripture. Recall that Jesus' words do not stand alone on this subject. We also have Paul's words in 1 Corinthians 11:17-34,--in which he passed on to us, what he received from the Lord. In particular he said, "For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes." By these words we should believe that the bread that we eat in the Lord's Supper really is bread (as well as the Lord's body)--as our senses in fact tell us. Does this *prove* that tran-substantiation is false? I suppose someone could say that Paul spoke metaphorically of the Lord's body as bread, simply because that is the way the body appears when we eat it. But this thought is found nowhere in Scripture. So we reject it. Thus the primary reason for rejecting tran-substantiation is not that we can prove it false, but that it is simply not found in Scripture. [side remark] I've been told that the Lutheran doctrine on real presence is con-substantiation. But it has been non-Lutherans who have told me this. We tend not to use the word. I almost think that this is used more by professors of comparative religion, who need labels to compare Catholic, Lutheran and Reformed teachings on the Lord's Supper. But almost every church wants to call their own teaching "real presence" because that was the traditional teaching of the church. [end side remark] Darren> When Christians speak as if they believe their own reasoning Darren> can never lead them astray -- when we implicitly claim that we Darren> are infallible -- the non- Christians around us rarely believe Darren> that implicit claim. Witnessing is hardly going to work when Darren> the person you are talking to believes that you are either too Darren> foolish to recognise your own limits, or intentionally trying Darren> to cover them up. This is precisely why Christians should not rely on rationalizations in their witnessing. It is far better to take the approach, "I'd like to show you what Scripture says. You decide for yourself whether to believe it or not." Darren> `REXLEX' suggested that people read _He is There and He is Not Darren> Silent_, by Francis Schaeffer. I didn't think very highly of Darren> it, but I think that Mr Schaeffer is grossly overrated by many Darren> Evangelical Christians. Somebody else might like it, though, Darren> so don't let my opinion stop you from reading it. Darren> If someone is interested in my opinion, I'd suggest _On Darren> Certainty_, by Ludwig Wittgenstein. As long as we're trading references, I'd like to suggest Dr. Siegbert Becker's paperback, "The Foolishness of God: The place of reason in Lutheran theology," published by Northwestern Publishing House. This book was based on Becker's doctoral thesis at the University of Chicago.
Does anyone have a radon transform in C that they could send me? Any help accepted,
Would the sub-orbital version be suitable as-is (or "as-will-be") for use as a reuseable sounding rocket? Thank Ghod! I had thought that Spacelifter would definitely be the bastard Son of NLS. (And just as a reminder:)
<discussion deleted> MY HOCKEY EDUCATION? What the f--- are you talking about? I'm not even going to try to refute this absolutely insane statement. "I hate the Habs" ?...you sound like a 10-year old. This statement is just further exemplifies your total inability to argue objectively about hockey. Don't give me this crap about "cogent arguments"...I've yet to read something of yours that is cogent. You consistently argue with: (1) emotion; (2) huge, sweeping statements Frankly, you have a very unconvincing style. I'm not defending Bob Gainey...frankly, I don't care for him all that much. But your dismissal of him as something less than an effective hockey player is tiresome...it has no basis in anything. How many Calders did he win? I think it was four (go ahead and refresh my memory). What about the Conn Smythe? Was that a fluke? Yeah, not the makings of a hockey superstar, I know, but try to have a reason, any reason, to shoot him down. Hey cowboy! You're the "expert" who introduced the idiotic comparison of Gainey with Gretzky and Lemieux...you figure it out. How many individual awards between them? Eight...I don't remember (once again, please feel free to refresh my memory...and try to be as sarcastic as possible about my "hockey education"). OH MY GOD!!! Did I say that? Roger...what's your point? Fuhr is a goaltender, goaltender's don't "plug"...in his prime, he was one of the best. Sanderson was a scrapper...if you stick him on you may as well include half the Flyers team of the same era. Oh Roger, you shouldn't...really. I don't deserve this...you are far too accomodating already. You seem to have allowed all of these other players fall into your sweeping, vacuous statement...that's why. If you want to debate Gainey, go ahead...but why bring up everybody else? How does it support your argument? Do you have an argument, or do you just like to throw around a few names hoping to impress us? Great. I couldn't agree more. The Flyers won two cups for the same reasons...deservedly so. So what? I don't get it. Are you angry that the Leafs didn't get more recognition? You seem to think these pluggers are "hyped"...I don't agree...plain and simple. If you're last statement is some sort of compromise, fair enough. Not a pleasant bone in your body, eh Rog? Why are you so unhappy? Not getting invited to enough parties? What? Roger, why are you under the impression that responding to your posts is some great honour? You really should stop...it sounds a little bit pathetic. Frankly, it's about as honourable as a good fart. congenially, as always, jd -- James David j3david@student.business.uwo.ca/s
I have to agree with you... the police may have carried it a bit too far but Rodney King was no angel either. And I don't think ANY guilty verdicts should have been returned. I'm sure you know why they handed down guilty verdicts on two of the officers. It's quite simple really, it was a compromise to avoid rioting in the places where minorities think it's right to riot. I hate to say this, but I would have liked to see them riot with everyone prepared. It would be open season if your skin was even slightly brown. Hey, my motto is, you don't fuck with me or my stuff and you don't get killed. It's just that simple. Tony ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -- Anthony S. Pelliccio, kd1nr/ae // Yes, you read it right, the // -- system @ garlic.sbs.com // man who went from No-Code // -----------------------------------// (Thhhppptt!) to Extra in // -- Flame Retardent Sysadmin // exactly one year! // ------------------------------------------------------------------- -- This is a calm .sig! --
Xcursor version 4.1 is now on export as xcursor4.1.tar.Z. I've added a new option to determine if a requested cursor size is OK. Of course, your server may lie!
Wasn't it Tricky Dick who issued stern warnings to Bush & Clinton not to 'Lose Russia'? (a la 'Who lost China?')
The description of the chip's operation evidently leaves out some of the key management aspects. Either the K_P is the secret key corresponding to a public key which is broadcast at message initiation, or it is the result of a Diffie-Hellman key exchange or something similar. Either way there must be some protocols beyond those described here. It isn't clear whether they are implemented in the Clipper wiretap chip or must be provided by other system components.
I don't believe in the "Wave Theory". My mother-in-law, who grew up in Germany, doesn't believe in money at all. She started out as a real estate developer, and now raises horses. She keeps telling me that inflation is coming back, and to lock in my fixed rate mortgage as low as possible. Maybe you'd like to invest in some foreign currency. Which one would you guess to come out on top ? (Sigh - speculators never learn.) Bill R. --
Does USL SVR4 support LD_RUN_PATH a la Solaris 2? Or an equivalent? If so, you can put the library in a package specific lib directory, compile the app with LD_RUN_PATH defined, and all should work. Besides, I'd say name it libPACKAGExcl.a if possible. Cheers,
Is there evidence independent of the FBI that indicates that the Branch Davidians set the fire? What have the survivors said? Did the press see anything? There is, unfortunately, precedent for the U.S. government saving children by roasting them alive. (There is precedent for religious self-imolation as well.)
So, if I were to assert that there are no thousand year old invisible pink unicorns* residing in my walls, I need to support this with evidence? I think the _lack_ of evidence shall suffice. * Who happen to like listening to satanic messages found in playing Beethoven's 45th symphony backwards. --- "FBI officials said cult leader David Koresh may have forced followers to remain as flames closed in. Koresh's armed guard may have injected as many as 24 children with poison to quiet them." - "And God saw everything he had made, and, behold, in was very good."
Ok, then where is the info for the Licensing kept? Which file? In the organization box I put my address, and when I moved, I wanted to change it, but couldn't find it. I could find my name, but not the organization. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | Robert S. Dubinski | Aliases include: Robb, Regal, Sir, Mr., and I | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | Marquette University ||||||||||| Math / Computer Science Double-Major| ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | Internet Address: 2A42Dubinski.vms.csd.mu.edu | Milwaukee, WI |
Some rendering programs require that all surface normals point in the same direction. (ie: On a closed cube, all normals point outwards). You can use the points on the faces to determine the direction of the normal, by making sure that all points are either in clockwise or counter-clockwise order. How do you go about orienting all normals in the same direction, given a set of points, edges and faces? Say that you had a cube with all faces that have their normals facing outwards, except for one face. What's the best way to realize that face is "flipped", and should have it's points re-ordered? I thought I had a good way of telling this, but then realized that the algorithm I had would only tell you if you had points in clockwise order for a 2d polygon. I'd like something for 3d data. Any hints, tips, references would be appreciated. Steve
Mr. Clinton said today that the horrible tragedy of the Waco fiasco should remind those who join cults of the dangers of doing so. Now, I began scratching my head thinking (a bad sign :-), "don't the mainstream religions (in this case Christianity...or the 7th day adventist in particular) just keep these guys going ? Isn't Mr. Clinton condemning his own religion ? After all, isn't it a cult too ?"
[I am posting this for a friend whose news service is "fubared as usual". I will forward replies to him, or if you want to try to reply directly, try: Return-Path: <uunet!sunfse.ese.lmsc.lockheed.com!mcfar> PR ] I have an event handler working for a ButtonPressMask like: XtAddEventHandler( plot_data->display, ButtonPressMask, FALSE, show_mouse_position, plot_data); but I would like to be able to have two types of actions: one to occur with the left mouse, the other the right, and perhaps one with the middle. So my event handler would look more like: XtAddEventHandler( plot_data->display, left-ButtonPressMask, FALSE, show_left_mouse_position, plot_data); XtAddEventHandler( plot_data->display, right-ButtonPressMask, FALSE, show_right_mouse_position, plot_data); However I don't know how to make my left-ButtonPressMask. There didn't seem to be one in the event mask lists I had on hand (although Button1MotionMask looked promising). My references also mentioned using "|" to or two mask events. Can you use "&" to and two masks? Would I want to in this case? Any help would be appreciated. Thanks,
begin 644 outOfControl.gif M1TE&.#=AN@*6`?```````/___RP`````N@*6`0`"_@Q@J)O-[XQ4#IYX::Z3 M9PUB4ZAY9`<NY59*:/!2L0C-J^W>2(>?[-C3Q70,6A`H9)&2OA=*ELQ)?RW+ MP3HT5F%1RQ%INGZNVMF4&WR0?4+>"OO!,-7(-SO,K#^I=2_<=J?4,QB(`X-V MN)-X>+;C1^B&UI7C&#E)=7E&F)?9"?9X`OEH.77CE(*I!5KI^08H-I8PMC9: M26HW"RLFN]LK>@NH1PN[UT>YQ,&ETL#[)#=BVO0<ZZ=VB7S=**D)!?G+\]M& M%`[<2MY]$=[*JFW8V>6ZYHSZG6V.#DVZ-XS?[8*X:`@M6;SB;5M'<""U3VS& M-5E5J-JT8)P<%>&#$=I#_CH2O40*")#=/6\.3QW,(JY,IB,C4[6\-Y(EPTW" MRIP[*:AB'X>Z/"K2MV5805T:/YD@28G&LIQ+AVY,6$%G"@]4X]"SVM2:THGS M;MIJ$9)1/W<AO'I]-S%F2S-!SU9URXFBW))7N[95E!'4W*':5+CZ*(/;W+'R M\DK9Q-$HUH4/56*+.C5K6L<'$V-%*>HQQ\O,P.+#:7>0RLJAS:+]LW:2Z:BC M8:KK.QAQW-2FK;+MR><?(Y-X<1:V,YEVQXB1;5\&'E$.J]\S>\7;$!RSY7G2 MTGT]+%:WZW&B]=*%2U.U2(3>*<)[FRUT68-87I>_N_I:3DF2`\/^UWLI1I^) M_L:?@]D18E6AIMQ1A2F6T&S-074@3R+(%$5V]ODCDGI(I71:=_&)UYHJL#4H M3(`U",?67N?A@B!A$:18FQ$%O;C%;B>!4Z$OF!!(8BF**:21?@8.J(1++A5H MV&:118><=*PEEY^,$X)&6V;DL.B=@E)&.>1W[/&&TGL,;>FC<<:(R1]\C9'G M!(.Y(1(-2,4YZ$]G5)H()7U!PHACBDQ5)I6<EH%YHD)P>,EDFF"5XV&&U=G4 MD'KV:*C@HW0-Y^<V%FY7(G?[04E,F_;DV>"??74*VF'7L4E=@N8IF1&5[&'S MVW%^018<8Q)-8YT5KQ[G!IAIK"7A;KZ2Z%ELSUFZ_DI\RI)W47@6+:@HA`DV M&DJ1ITK*:K,_X->K4=P"I!M@-5Z:#YV>*IDH9$%N.I^DQ>F)WFS'+E83<GEA MB.I/)H4W)X>I601%I+PM9VZEPVXU+WA%FANP>U_86.>_CG(Y[KG<ZFO+*_RP MVJ^6'!-,%#6S=)D/O3:^:F#"@9+\W%\W3A?AC,`@BF^U_";9\,+$+BMPGR]) MZS%S/&8YAXH2[ZP5Q#*&&Z.F8[);C,A0P3CUH&&HNZZJQ*#'Z9Z1Z@=KO7;A ME300BSP+8K`7GPTMM@9=60Z[)_+<6L^IPMGOCJ7B[0Q-SB)-,=<4^L9,6/"M M'6*]I)(Y<7VQXIIR3R4G_FY-5B+#K)G-FMV-VLI>#UXLC0I/;F;!N08>](:- M2_=4EF.O&G3J3)YY,^H(&UOBAXP*FQUV`OJ5"NQZUR65D24_[C6#I(L-XIVZ MQKLDN;1OF;OANB>)**>9.MPNDM,;&RVA>;]T\-RN?U^TSH";\FU^K5[7Y/7* M_RF4<T[E$J;D(Y.)2\AAW[N9`0GN;M#C%?^X%S5W:()M<(D=D1*X'N)`2WH_ M`A30;J>HZ55I>/!26<5^!9C:X2R$WQH5?[03+E,QC&I#XY,!*Z<4>RTI:?LS MTE7PQC\8BDI(QZ!.0T0TL_B!2WRE:U%7E,&Z"Y4F?'GP$/.26)+Y(5!>4FSB M_ODL`1W&?<U"[0O(D5("CAGMBC3/RYE3=G*_,\8J:_B;UCXHUR[@=7"'-)RC M#SL&P5J@$%D1&YWG("B_[FD1:!MYS\^&Y2X.;E%E'^M0``_904.A2FQFX-U/ M,$8?\`UF5V#KT<MZY"C@C<B*D&O$(Q>YA'LEXXJ)>1`F[V.W]!`1B4$13HZJ M()]9GL^`BJ2;EM#'LQ9N+D#54UN^=B@:9$7#<X1B(Z[X8;]FH**-SGGAY1K' MR#J6[UTMBV';.H2=^`&S#2SBG-%,IS/*G,9\BD03BJ!&H$:R,S>3>@44L2G) M4NUM1(;@7>_DF3(*DJ$H]A-EYJ0YOQH&4!6G;,XH_L=&0_35R$RJ*6'&)CH^ MN0CH%+Q$&2Y?]QV!T/*>533=E,J7KEC:\V`T8QRD9&G16S2O'ERLA6W$2$#C MI!(WB[G<-$TFJS)"CHYJ<J,9=>J8>39R@9($H[_V=D&4EDT>VSLJDM3I1POB M,"WH.)/;1C5%A&)0H/OJ#=MF]=5)BE.!TS'E$R-Z/VLJ1X;&"X0$M[I!M![T MHX.DW=HNR30=-?,_BA/L^HPHCD+!+*4@S:A'+[78>HY%'04=Z3D7%A;$B?2R M3$7;*E=J2_WEL)IJS$5IU4C0,$5/:,W+GS2IJL&7LC6?:J-6'XE5NBQ"2IX^ M@YL@'4E(DQ*S9YP]%\[,_H%0ZU`P=W$B'&,X&,(*`==%YK,A'G"37+[P,PZ6 M]&#?D!I'2OE,5B4][KB8ZT6#M<AE@K,2/<DZ3A,I-FJZ]*U7WQ))MDIUMMX% ME8;2:[3ZKBA?WC(N4/*81LMY\F0)[531/`FDU2ZO2O-R[4K0])$]=I5BARV3 M+Q\82T@6]S^'_&H_PI>I^!9ON\YM4^\"8^!WP+BQ)HN;`.O3)6C&58Z"RJWH M>-C1U':RL@<4$A$?BZ\,?]"=`AVF?0%*18FNIX`)317G5/?(`2X3N)Z@+'OM MMJ_H"D].W-C64`E;U%/R-+PAFY8.9:PU03[%B>"]B.8<FAD/[Y'`8$;N?.LK M_CN5"@S*!*'Q\;`HPFT:3)6\Q>UF'4M"$VKQ>2Z2])I=6E<W]SBUK\4NV%2[ MK5,IH\Z?BW.FLTS>SD$YR>R@V4E=-59AMFZ%O]T?)4&%.4?Z-UE$$R[+&%OJ M/SIYQ-?R78TQ&K.<&11B?0WH&C6MOQFV6<X&SFDU!!5);;+,KIBY"0GA]V%W MP@/9EO5U8_!8R-6A6LF0OK.*VXMN$6ML14!4ZXM'O>-W:G4?U;PTCY?M;_SY M;\':O;&#!WI1ZTE-JT,&\JY_[4"]I%>%A$FG*B4[V$D+[^(8?+C5\%K=;$'V MT$4V]W(%/5,7JY"/Q_`T3P`=\#4CN-\R[S&#+TTK_H0KK1TU].$T;_Q&N4&Q MOS4#EZ7X#%\L$_:F%?-XK9J\;>9Y>+Y)/T]2>EWRR$;=6EJC*>A\$W-HAMU_ M-5]VOGGZVK-/.^PTKM_VR.C@M'>3:-I4L'@SMZBOAQ2(LV9X!6?>;NI*EI:. MUNF282U1/*,XD>+>I$DG;F^`1UOL!24MV<?NZ4X'7+MKI_RG\22F,H-R4M@. MJK.1K.((L4_4K<ZU+>\Y[,-W6-=V5)]Z$X_7JDOX?]_LWLP#Y6>*=XWM,0>] MP#&/_.33_/@N?[3EP2U\@W?FN;Q^>>\;*KZCR[YXZ`9IP'B-^)2JVL2*I^\S M=E_8U%_=T+P/<%4G3%FY_O>SL\-/OMJ5C__\VW_YF;\\-R&L7*EV94`"7C-D M-@Y702/4-$,45>`W*%Z%*7,`>U<5@5WS)>.3)]/'$JBF+0GX=]GW9]=63LTU M.`*A?R?(?"C84Y)W?/>W(^LB%%A&:G>"1G5'.NK'8EWD5HN7+;*S@2)$1A/$ M++OG.#M8;NN65]ZF6W3%7U?W/;A3)M2789I%!"IHA5>(A5D(@Y6G)@9U1T/C M=B+R/^9515K':D@W<M1BAL/15XNE>TE8@"!H80)H8N^&9-F&(P^G21<G3#_& M@-#W4UHHB(,XB!HC=LE%9.TT8<-D70>D@1K'3WNV<MF621&$.AU%-F.R;417 M_D"*9GM]>%E_QGY+AU7,MD2W5WX<5X4RHWV99(&>5W:$*(NS&(NB97D-ICBZ M,G=7$V1B^#%>(F9#*%0*"'&YEU<?ETT0AT^_%%P*"(?LQV(X=E?BYVK5EUVM MN'+P1(O;R(WZMQ/^]V]QAWTZASS8EH`^!8T(XB8`5B>K=H#.(H2^Y4<=PWC/ MB(Q0>%L_^'%PM'&J9QYVIXBA@$+@ICY;V(T'B9"+HWQ@\#0<2#RG<VQQ>(-[ M]51-XC;U.'1M)X\^R&2K2(VR]H%P(EU89UEWI8MQA!0B9W%1]!G"-VZ5LWD) M*9-6>#RV"(N$MHJ*]66(%'CA%"S;,897)I';Q(.H_M=+M@)_>Y)32FAM^9@\ M.I0%Z[=.2+AA7=84#$A@>7:"OS*378EV_$=->4AR]1-1J;1:<L5M@Z1P2)>3 MN_2!&AELRX@V5C5N3U9+@J9E&RE?91AJ_%AK=*9N'(A5!^:/.[6"-GEP6..5 M7?F-!\=\(!:$*!EH:2:"^\@A70240&>6`&EQ&!@]:>@>K:-4?K>$7-:,]'1L M'WE]7T2!Y%(N/LESW@>6-/=,&[.87JF8-:>9-S)7<H>4B_,[^":-E51L&;1Q MU@8R9W9D'&4G579>+Q1O;<.1#+6(RCEE@D!EUTD\Q+EHZ<>07>:2]L6"@2@- MA`>.MZF%N0F+.%>9!?>4_DY'C&]2&C%%BI:9E^LD?<ZX6WRE,!VX'Y;HB_N% M<M+I/>O5=;]48;9#F/$(@SM&),1!GN@YBPM&F_UV.]DEF;H(1YQXF<'HE!%) M74L76>0WC?")>WP'2%^TG*VU=6A%>Y]S8:<SD>]7FN&D6X'4.2EXF'W9/VLD MH86(<_<G6AL(DZ0$9-FYG=#'<AAYAU/W5O=9BJ(XERKYI&+)DCGYHM9)B<") MA%"*HO=5GA^$H[[);^S)I4>JHS^:GBWH<D-:F8BT:2Y:9^#T7@P4<N,'0#D6 MI?TYG'\9@`88GPFJ5Q#RI?A)DLA`>)O(H(7Y>]43)Z88;!8V5]-F)RDG>=>% M_H)+`Q+",E!+@WSJ.9[%=S+T,W09RE7.]W4V%F6C*1E$&&M>ZE@5)Y59FFH\ M29H,]7_#^)Y$M:*V"H?%R8Y3"52:!W"C)W5A*8N::G1BD0Z>ZHUCIW9?`BO< M!*F*YT&M-TELN9FUAGK6.%5S@Y-]&IQ1=G[^V7%>&GM".3!/%Z#J)*XQ2C`# MZ4+T,ZIA6*2ZV93(:J^QVJG8A6^CUJ_/2HL>6*N*&JD7%GEJ!6>_^3KU"6*? M0CD-"(5SJHIH*I)[*9FFAK$4>#3P93$QPD)MZ9BBY((0&XXCNYY?N35I]*]\ M`;#XEV!;.:BDYGWZV)/`&D'#!FRLHZ)3.D]WX8#+_N`JK#D>XPB$C&A^KI>D MU`IOZ8JF:?A>9K6LTVHYDR>(_0BJG@<^*^NOA>:R0OJI69BT[>>7=.@K]N9< M!SJC([JSCB.@;\BNZ@JCA+2P$CN&@7J?R!27WMI#@_890+L+\=)\/A6V.!JV MH6I:7"LY2/2RS:J"Q'J%&ONMF/BJ9ZM<X;E9G4FTR+FHH^B`PK5B34MRQ]E; M9/NY<TBF:E:@>(N72@H40T9P]RJS)V:"LVF3FL:RSNJL1-&XA[NF<9JK!\N+ M$\1NIC*=0J.V!6NN*QEXN/<W,KB4]BEG<1:5RBMO?9<H@W>5=6ILEK9PMF.Z MHBHNB(NRD`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`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`$)Q;5=N?3F MDU(KIA+W?0IM:D8LT#,KTMMLBUS=W81(4/+GIU08>=JVU'\JO0S>>S<3@7;H M?/H=UW+*OU(<8A1LVL2'PD:ZR?[(R3DZ<!!1>659BXZIT;JT98\JF@B>X+Y+ MTU[LS<ILVQ)MJ`Y=RY2]W?CHTS#'6SE\PJ"&V#>W5PW\>J&840T-M'QBG9=J MU1Q\BTZ#(?0M;9]<XPKNXEKF5)FEDY3YD3>,H:BXV[C,M`E3-0\)A@C3=S0L MM\P(O%=];:ULJ4V]*>A"Q1,7G\8*0(-;$0:)Y^2TP,U9O6S"JEU.Q%MCX`M' M_M>L)\AQ+JV_;+%WO88VG'CJ:++]I8G!3+%I;'84[%`J"YJ%%WW?1J@@2;YU M+K8WJKF:"UK&U^6Y.7J<P74'0M(E;>>W+96^^E*:+25C.>OQ*KTO:<Z<I.?] M3*%GRE6AZIR_?;.3B#@X/+*3:N4_1YX4NMJN1LAJ3>B,WG\D6WIWF$\$J2>8 MX\O92V?"Z)Q&6<`W7EBC*W1\B*2+NN+,-L/YENASN>,F[H<G2MRV.WFT7N4% M_V44I\7(UNLV)^Y6*Y?9;1_KRH82SAI;EXHAB?%U&=(97Y4-5,@!&91FV]Y5 M7HEXP.^(_%?T%N9.$O`I]J!>W=K0+-!9/(RJ>ANU_@>D3LRE2E0XM?600F[# M!!B:S%VHT4F&TVO4A%K97-:&L<AIL@O81P4X:?(A=$[CJ;U\*=^FYD;?34J$ M]A*YX?Z[9I?LI7SJ]POD6F[MQ%7DICW2?HI#VJ*K1?V)98[GM_=I_3?`6^H[ M?$3:MLS5--[LQ%?HN4[O6,VZ.ORX`'.0>,)"HV%,AP[OO"F2%CG1LR+,$XXB M/PW('.ZTI5[1JX3:(?)#<WRR,5F'A(RYW8*Z!#ZP!Z_-X!BM5AZ:^R;[ID[V M.[]VCVCBZ+ZB@OL[.GN,M!;O/%TM&_V_G+WYK]_"9%YVZ=[JGC_W[YBM@"_X MU5?8):N0;`:&H3;R[MWJ_GE/\#)Y:&&$LX8XXIP$J.S.2NA\S-D9\Z:?E".N M^'!OY\M([SO*IN0;5^-*`('Q5",;(633T5,QT)MW_\'0$L6D,S>#5,G30M5X MF2]:;O&[H?$^K#2L("?S8$AVR<EPF%D`ER;@E`F5P4;7Y[;8K"Y?S2Z%*N5F MH^"M[2M,O]=.M/K'M+MS:6?WVK\8'P)KK.(*Z7P0$Q'Q>AA!'!^#^%*^SJ`4 M/VYF($LP*1\Q0@?+SL),8[1TT/;"QB;-J+Q<96F]:E/A8E7U+&]ES5I-/511 M%#D;@\E67P!G7T^%USPQ@1>#47?LB.HZDTE+L:;O/F$_.U\CM(9;DR(&H<%P M_JM)OXE[6>W566W+YV8MR]6CI<^6(5\L$"Z[YV(3CTP,Q5%ZAH[=$4%*GL&3 M$S'BL8<CR$FTYB,@PX0&JTT[J4U:R)8N-!7;%@KC)$-8=#TI68A@R7#X^('4 M&118JHEOYO'*U4N8A$J_KAUY&4<=1V-1[]'\8Y$>4E_^8(*#L\X<68<KF(I1 M!DE3-Y$.3LKS*JYM0HQ8U_(:HQ;0J'<^XP6V%[02+J5%YR+.B;.P4F]Z0?;[ M=I.RV*26H_$\:]4:4*_HX$I5#`UQ93:>W*S<'&GQVT-A$Q$<)VV?QQ:E#4=> MV%6FWW9_$Q-M3$@VDH:CD[V#;)=PQJ.Q@,>ES:9X_IN!A+'*O20][3;.'YU= MY_JG6=2<3%$)32\IKTR!K)&]INJ.VVWX-1H'%HK:.^S<2@ZKB)'?D##NO,%J M>^P]@>38Q3KB\K-IP>7$`TR[.99)\+1_BC'LDN^ZN=!#T:)+)SP1X6FNJK8B MP0ZBD91K:*C5GJ(1-AD9!/$S!7=,L)\4TB%Q+]PB!*L4Y8#*9C2G-,2/0]T. M'.<\]!X<+B0?*R0M.>]6LDU'UW@,R$0#S6ONNB$+J@Z/7=ATJ8X/S4G/"&Z\ M_$@WS#:BAJS4\H/LN(%8)#`OS5QKTZ'PI#SS3RHSQ-#/G7C3\DE(K<.0.R(= M:=.]`.7[4K,EUQ+TN<=(_FU43D<?BO)%NN(<*X\ZI_NO2LY^PE/&H>[:9Y@" M<[4RILKN4D,N8!4=\5;)`A1"0N$F%`O'[-:1PK.>M+G0I&<];9'*894DL$#@ MU-LMBV'3%)=/"NMCL;Y#M\JVU7.S/(V_:XTTZJ!2@;S34#5)S0A;!'LL,T=J M?R444R.+K50Z`/7[=;)SA'6S8'>5U2-)=PPD,[0*)RV+.5W-,JNT55F*S5UD M/G85P-[TG,VN@X^"]B(L1_Z4)X`)%ECA<N,%>%Q%G4W*YX;Q6J7@6J?KST'5 M3EY79U'DQ'C:/W/>%EWHV"JHY`'[(ZGD>6$5*5$M0>0Z:&;,A<IL%*'>:N2. M_JD^N\85J4-2N$?O`)7MN']L;=&JG$45K:1M;#I:C=AI1F.R(XU[M8D+SR-R MPRFW,^07*V8U+,#Y73RT(BC]=R%EELO1UH`U17UL9!L?4>AG3ZR2=3/KYH1/ MNNTS/&41,?ZK+\#N'9W<*ZNUW*W+*T_>\LP)*9Y6YX.U,'$!Q;:9"ZRY'.MU M:@UFMSL-5[;YR5B%MW(NN3D_\A_[X%3>+>E!]ZU7FN\FLM.3PW9?__WY4ZWM MS%%2OGQ1)GY).IVUD-4COQFP)0XJ$Z,2N+?"I&X[!PQ<68C7/OXE['-"XM4# MC;4PH.5/1R3<X`E/"*]\-!`<N^,9XC#SE5K]"';B_GGAI<#BNHKP+((0Q`YC M6O<N?=V0![:[7PK3YJT@1>^'`4R._93',A1.D8J>4I>=%E878G6/,7@;X<[4 M-ZK@$'!G*PR."WNX*>R%KBN+"M&6JE@H0(WB<P.SV@I;8T+PY,Z*<?0C_L"D M+BW*3H[BZUD,T;6C[Q'RD%&B8)%"J!#NI2QA`=M0A*28JB)2$7YHDYI>@$>W M<'QQ<C":R1]1F<JR:9)\O8%B&7V(/D-2J$--1%.D'-84EUF-C+63V.:NE<NI ML*^4R0.B)V<6'5TB35K,TAM:Z+$Q54Z3FBC<",,>*1M.,0N&/*0#<L`I,^L) M1H`,K!H4#;@3EV@0E,6D_MQSX/(MBA"R>7DD%/*Z%@4]KK*:_>3DK8H4(S/5 M8T)HM&$,*0D\T^2P>K,)UU,F@\N'#HU)-<KG$?=W,?)X2YF.K!>XEI:],Y(( MCE7<IS]1VK(N>D8J/A3A)0,G/5G6T''A!*&3?M@Y/T6LE=VAW6"PJ+6,GI)Z M="P1WL9G3P;6=*##W.!)4QK5SF"0.;Y,FCX&R42$'LM6HFBA2"EEQ'V=K3I< M5%*EL/71W`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`F;8^@DXNB>V:OHNI=3ZD;.F-`[Y=DF#79?<[B0$MSY';3Y98BT3O2/BO; MQ^U+]C>OQM"YGEFQA4W6HE-;.1'+KZ.F6K7/PKG4*[($S.Y4B9#<&6/_WB=0 M;JIT9ADMW3+;$+*T_NG4:,G""J:EWBR#7)4-_=Y]4UM[X/;FS]@CXW@#<L0< M190N80H1\"WE;;U>I0DG_C)9A>N8C]-<Z_B"?>YR8:^V93W$,S,,S&4U&]LZ M6+ECR-1+QNJV?B7-VA3Y\$&BJ3G2L90H=(J9$NYV>7.+`RR8M3LOV(JN%MA^ MDQM?:IKM?:;?&%8?M,F-;+&9_%PMKC?Q+*A4_M[INTDG=F<[5,#H^MKK6D^? MTA=N/.YN]G]^YKC9A^KG2587@W2"^9S-EVJ.27)&AJ4ZP5M58)J#4<VS+?36 MQ^OM%D]ZW10[4\Q9RDX#JTV'<$V\Q..^&:%[3>VDA/NP^\H=>FG3[IAS(^&/ M"^?-U_G!HD0K^9C=Y"XBCM=@(EJ8Q"EY7%>3(NL;25$R;ON0R]WB?_YKQLF. M_O>6H7+<T0KIAJ<J\]M?OWG*13?)_;=FQ/>RFS`E\LCS?6R4<[KY?F3C-?;" MZ+T-.D]P@M=>^3(JO._SI-+'=(M8+[PD9W8,8HBX+Y;`JNSZJZJTC`'%:^_X MJ@`/QLG>[G5&9Z?\2?^:KOV(8-MJPK9>I8^.CVIB!L>>9_E.KX2@;(^,!W=R M1\L"K\>@"Y8.JWO(SHFZ9*LFCY=^#I+NI;RXZ7P"T-S^RP&Q9.AN053H3V5^ M3]WZKN/^JCWJ*D\23'*L4`1-D,YL1/584)L>2>J:<*$TC86J9^\8)0SY3-3& MJ]68*=^`SZ&Z;^,\3OBHD/F@K^&^ST7\KO(&1T]P_J+6IHSH1.[D.J+1GK`+ M_<[E0M`'O5#\^.7PQNKOD&S1;,]0*&Z9FJZ9;&*(PG#^`JCZX@C4Y*40"R57 M+"0E0,P$5ROT@@GM-I`4<X`*&0:)B.ZYG(T/)8VF\JJY3([I[*P1>:L`QRX2 M(82IVNP1\6O)*,V+6,__^*GMU.G<EG`:R_!RG+%_YLCH?N/L(*:X:A&0NDS8 M^"[7M(48[^P3*;&L%N_-$LC\8D04^>T4<$@`MPJ&ID`=U]#>$(S`GK'$\C#G M7(P57RSA@DSS7"^#:DS`#'(%I7$4(4^`5N_/WHL,O<L!HZO=T)$"&2^@E"_. M4JX$5:ZV+"@>ZS"5-FX'_I]'[>8GN6A,((N0+]*/"!]-S+[L&[]DK33I[22P M)=WLRA[2!;4O]CH,@,8JX`+JA322=!:L[F(NR;I*?&I0&(T+\$K+#^Z0O#J% MRRZM#S40N\IQG2:/G<01"@O1-N9Q(CN(S!#/H]Q,G03NS4@2(@]-UHX0%0ER M-X+(VBS%#2.1(5TM)QVR(35P)`4,T,XA$(WCH-XH%Y'N%DM2)HDIO@+I1L[I M!<$K`<<P\HB+'2./Q<(,IXSEP&00[(8+[9A2"+WO_%2LRMSOU0*A=Y*)A'+N M-,ULX+BIVJ;*+&%2/7"R#SULX>3P"K]C(2]P*2-G(@D.'KD,!H.,_%Z.Z>82 M_@'S\8X\B-M6DKUTZ"G;P-"L*9`*:!.YTU=,DRIIQ"*)JMCZJ"OU`]@@;9,T MR""O<?,8DS*%#P!_<"/E!>E$I^L2KR_7!0BSJOM^21%_J73:0>PJD1/;3A<% M)13M:V:THE?.,R;?X_>BCQGZ`FU(C\;$R#FRC?E,RV2(<P!Q<=;*8/26QZ_L MLJ"^*?Q"#>@^\N!L\)+";1EGKL2N4[DZ[S"F)))@T:W(X$$YZ^%H#C&%"Z`\ M;<)\J^?N[A\_JCRI:Q!+%#+5LD3?4J8(L>1@DC\+%+MJ,Y]\=!?%4SL7U/'B M$+DD=)X^JQ,-L*5P;B8^D,K^9]^P;`G/\-\NK]MX_M+I3BO:@%+2;NY'\V?_ M<+$="3-00XKV[`I)M0?W[&^6`O'O&,G4>*F0Z.Y`BVW*5+)1IA/VL+&MH$:> M=&[,A.VXWC,@-4V"'@\+7;'X'N>=?@TEN7$$[PP4:V]158@B_^^\'O`2C7!U M[,T"'77-U$A^>L=C0B4[OO""MLD/I[0;C=4?62TAU;,O-]-7EN40.<Y)"^M: M835657!R=DRA?!,C@>Q*.Q7BON(H:U`+]='$V)61@I3$9K$5-56M$M(IWTIS M2B@V(U45@[5HR+(%26<(M?7B!L]?@K$U;55*%Q,6"'`%R^V[UK/B&&K9X-#= M4@19KZY\L`PU[>5!UZ98_A9HIFHRP$1T.$E68`^SD:#4*4?*^$!,!"7EIG)0 M3/$OZ6864.M3-UM1#*$K2<FP2VGK!HO,(H'2$H.1N#!5T5)62$U-*#,Q/IT5 M<CY5]C:U9E3*/<_P8,$Q`=$3.JGT[+!I*\>QZBBU82]35M@,-Z&.JOIS`X>2 M$"O3!J7VQ.9U1$]49M:Q6!'N39DU.,/,54M592LTTT3.2]Y/\.#RGZ022*^H MU6C+&]FJ<3]/F":T8W4O$_GN)"-FX&8GLB[(70611".4]\"K*6E5/KT,1^_P M830G4^B1`Z/T+_GT6Q_7<(\4('?O3<9L0!%RM`ILO:H1=55-,`CPPLZU0"&/ M_N7")W8?Q$@ATE6GCVK!YA\[]#/!-5_=S7J=]4=O<D.M%DBA-';8;U=&<:68 MMZ'4UV[]2S\7J1VYL$S#[G@9:R`#[1T9%0\Q:F)037"Q=:-$U2+\,4=5-VR< M\/-N%_54L$[*S?]"576>*Q9?<TYV4/6T<GB+,K>,L=T:L#/;]RV=BZ2*=V?Y M*1MQQ=B*-ON";MW\=U7J"#8=SCK7CD1!=/FHUGLST"^WMO%JU6LEX7<43V[A MELE&>-*TB$O]0'BC[B'KD4Z#EUS,+E/-HXTXCTG!U#^.5+YR$!OT#P_K[@;[ MZ@GOSR49V(R?=7/[4>QTIM?&9&ZW1B'R*C3E`7/;_E!7T:^#/15YJT"G4!56 MKW*.5UB#0PZ-FBDKX`]J"UB>I#!\`NSK?NV,)9D;2_/KIH0/7Y.`G?A#",P, M+\O@-#-C\56)M3AH:315_\]L0V6__E6H`+A-:^V*E5`)W2:3:Z*^?@<V$ZO2 M?C=$QW:2<VQ9]=*!*YA4Y[,:)^MLE33\=&TSP2\?E]>2EMA4T[4*52Y^B!>* MHQA.,92&!]@4"5A4Z$AJ3/$[.959`PN84VIBZ>67]Q>VN!0A*VHZ2:W:KN^' M-==:\!-IE52,M:V1U3!XV)<%@Y1P6[4Z9_A>8>PB?"/3(!D`(#JB)7JB(5J' M*?JB,3JC-7JC.;JC/?JC_D$ZI"<Z;"NZI"_+H[_%I#>ZC,U3I2L5+4V:AD3X MK$KZ9BTYIEWZY=*VHDW,A$7ZIVO:FS,4?B,Z;*-)8"(X3H7:.I6(7CN*[AQZ M3X%ZI:>ZJJWZJK$ZJ[5ZJZ_ZGG&Z8T.XJ(]1HO=U?H-Z@U7ZF9*7N<[ZJY4W ME6$%JM!6&]M:K+7R/XPT@G$:8MV:>A@Y0@^TVXQOI(':HL6:JQ$[L14[JPV[ ML"_Z@;]:CFF:4B-#49&,?A^;K(.:IEB3IZWL"%UZL34:=%37K@_[L,N+H<49 M::GQKY6UED461\/9?+%:NQI;M'$[MW5[MS%X/5\/)_7SA1V&F@E[/Q/)0Z6M M_J]GZK1WVY>$6'`[R2I_CE>3BFR$;);K:Y&E&J6WVHB:^[O!.[S%FPL)&SU7 ME*)3&Z?*.Z?'*+3]9J_W$J;C4@`7;T=Y&[U)*E`UV[3C]#&+6[/56@?/VG/H MP[43^F41F+FI&K]-6[P=_,$AO+:YFXKOJ>H$&:SMAM)DI4CW&ZC:M:X'L[XC M.[1S.RV]\L:>)BLW6Z9N=$?GU.'`658SVH$=F\0C_,9Q/,=#6G8;'+,[S.TV M>R<OL)Y'?,7;>FJ\Z^KN-W=+/*T34VU1>[8;&F5__,CS&Z/'-Q^@6JF_\V91 M$,MK?,9U?,S)/,=#+;)O&O>.F`U/.SL;'+Z3&[B5_IL9K?Q4%%R?ZC.\^1&D M97B0Q3Q[.1',JUBH`UN<%URT[T^_RWS1&3W,Q5S0V[RGV-O(C5S#W#NF9LVS M?DS3F<J*2V_WQ%&'F9G/!]RH>B][!?32,UO%EGIOZR_2'7V_&WW6:3W"0U== MX^+8]"W*>2IJ@YR:*[!B?[''PV6RX=L,-[S6_SR64['2_7JP95W0%:.UPQE< M`G-B%;>CH5S9N;W;M7W27\+3T=S9D[0WA]TNTWK<W?*4Z=Q:^9O<X:O#;9S4 M%UN10;W.05QNF'S2"4:)"!R+[URK;]O;"=[659.3`5Q5X%SC^!NQTITO$:88 MSV\2(;`@:_J8_'N\V]C*_FV69:,=OX&]@)V4B;!]WG<<P!]]?`M^Y1O=W87) M8LU5S2$9V2?0PN#<B#E5:(&EXN^4X\M8S^71I;+V\>+OOW4UK_M;3SF:G27< MY%G^Z0G^`,W1TH%N@[-3:+-*WCMQYE'=LR<NR(^>W+_9G16[?6M6_4[:Z-<; M'S=KY'W;J:K2Z:%^[KU=ZC%1WN5;P\>]G&Y^X2F=BJ]KFGV>TED]="W,P,F> MJ]57REP1ZW[59^VHJ7G7GUF:NU<=TND^\VG=BB5;O7'+$L]2YOL:;@2_N7K= M%U.XW'$0[[_/EC=1Q_V-U^DGPP5)]%:?0@&Z7K.=Z;^\R.4^\34_^+^];TH' M_F0-#^5'T]@;U:J>5.*ED/8EF/!W[,CCJCG'G"C?'=.%+O0M/^*E/*_]F5$I M[Z-!5?C-_[NE%O0W=O3W\A+;$K6/Z>_3_7`5WHL@=?[Q'9=5^^&OGW`&G\<( M(#BFGMF"8U#.VN;-&>H=]A,Z$4*&%+J,B<F>+QS+,UW;-Y[''B9=E@\(7'UZ MPE5).$PJ*\L(DD?Y47M5D)79($X9(*@VR-MRMD5DUMC2L6E@EY/K5/S@:Q<W M*LYJ,)[Z'5U8%U.;3:!AHN(B8V,.X)&1I%37VU6EW=+3'L=>59Q:F&52WF:0 MQ1CGYQ?FF:L5Y1RBX^'+'1HH3N!HKESIF1]?<!V<_LKIR6RB23)ML_,SM$B: M;R@QJ_#DG##U:BB*-6%OM1IUL>9U-^'G9E^JWF5D9K0.R:UNBO&T.O:KN[=> M(4%RI,E@5JA(N'D*%S(T1`D<0$EI1)WBQNY;N%+;,,7+Q?&<OG<@]8W[4\;/ MAU3C).;3U#"@-C9@DJ'[5[$D'W\Q=Z0P2._!P)="AQ)%9@J8*I=$<*VKR30I MR961-+(B4R+=S(M>5G8;!<P54BE!ZX'ZA:_H#)\$C=I<=]'?0YCF?*I]U/'N M3K1Z][KAQS$B-D]^;1X=Y#5;5L-XVL:S6%4J64CMR'S]:@HGT&$3^9JK03?D M,2I8S,+M9*]O9T&J'SVU_I6Z)>?81$6*!:U-<DN`3<65EG6D-U:H*JE.]3'0 M'>5^(,F.Y`V+I>Q[=MOJ+DX:IT'FR]B2DJFXS1N/T<<W2U>8*WJ+^\)[*];U MIDKX@B^A&2XN*NC)PY1'#GU?("Q8D$>+3J-A)%YM!2;T$W>*"/C:6K`-.&%Y MUC6GQ'O"D00/?5MI1-A!'"+8RDW+<?(;1929EE(G$W78XH'S6<8<A=.M4=-@ MC\WW5EYR$7.0:8M)&"%%OF5&9(U).A+?8]?\LYM6^9%8F%.-K2=?=1]&Y&2' M^LU8&GOMX:-@4$I.)R4DSFT$W%DT'7D;D#WR)">$8\IE)IZ>H7=E)H<)YF)& M_M_YR66@]CEVHHA58GC@&&:485]94,74:&UUXCD+E,4%%A";BT9X(Y`T,A++ M64;VE">J#.*FI5MBU;=HFKS0=@QB&UF8C3PM$K?KE)6MJ"*4&;[:RZP;7I:J MG`)6ZE(<7:XY*70[N95/73"T``Z=R&IKUZH8X=9>K&KZQXM[W7U['&2()8@H ME7?1!NRC.5YIEI4Z2;HM,M,.4F)!.VX*("XCJE9MFWT.B1J^"1,4UVXZ=ENO MIK=6:N"FP@;J(:#H1OJ627V4B..U=NX8RX\S647P;.4"!NF/^]A*:K;2!-S0 MJQ1;^A+*"L_9+3R%%AEN=Z8.6UT3AZJW944U8Z9T_D[).7T2T5:B:6Q8%NJ+ MKZBKB=?OE%(9T]IV1;4\],$ZFQWTG[8=%[6"_)83G)C7\3@8*IX>IMTV7C9' M--*1?F&>2/"UG.K@0O;\9F*&SAFS7B&KN-F2!K^8\]D`/ZMIHG!*[!S@N"[6 M9-Q!NPKCY%;G'6]*I((*M-'!T$TNW%B7.E?1_;(GHM!<<W8W=#/7,CC9GE;N M798?2=U;$[Z!_='?A/&=;IR&A^IR3E"/,.W#TT><N9B<?ZSS@];>F9NW/U>H M=337Q7?F4D$R5CW,PW_>J[S!!;_T]QT5#_%V@2,?+/^>DSH654U6YCJ5Y+"T M&=9Q:G:H\AVUI(2D>AS-_D$WB]S7HG0U\?EO3U6"H/P."+K$X`IO?!*>4PR( MN;0Q"6UJHA>)O*0X$+K):^GYEV*(P[@!A2DU6>.@D&SHC!ZFCT_84M6?BM7" M$+JF>!W<7Q1:L[D(EL^`+0Q>Z71XGH[]BH!56PVV<!2B5D3-1-C;88WJ4L$W MO6\L-_CA!8>(,8204"T!8QKOU,9$HSQQCG^!50;OP[OV^>QY$M%AN/JF++OM MIV,O"N3LU@@F6F70641,TO66,<`!>F&3=$02&(.X"!!"@UX?VAKZ-.27+F5J MCU74G@G])HOW3*Q<@K2D4O07PP!NC(P!^M7&^@.J7I*KDK8J$J/^HZW4T<&3 M_EYT)D+T!$/PU()FN7)A'!M!.5=>+E-O.V"N8#<2]8#(>8P4V#?71:D5!>ED M)D*E$WWT+!JI,VW+?-0M6,0"?>JN=VSTSK[$YK8>%0Z#>>3FXF3ID?T9R6*Y ME-Y3K"B/K'RR;J3S62#!U`[YF&I@M&+HUYS4T=A)RX$\9"90HIG)?GZJ5MM4 MDCUHB%!,(M.;['I0V%XF.C$P+($415Q"#-G3RCB*F>ZTV!$39[S^70Y<LESB MI<`B@HJ>Q*.@%-BHQ(>S@@V3E#,=3[$`J;G,B$9XS'+7-]8UTJ0HT654^8.O M5*I0&#HJ=+6CX"J3!2"SHC$Z4E4!2CM)53U)KZ\-_CJL7TWZ59HB,)G*6V'M MG"K"?>&QC5,<UB'15I6X)D>G5--0V,9F+D4Q;5Z]A*FNHHF*:SE3JV43Y2A1 M^\_7+E:@$169/P7IPD3:R92765Z<[A=%!:)D,D<=YVE=$[$=;+1,,;K7-:.* MDI1:H[5PY(EH:ZL,Q6JWB$OU3S@-EMGY3;%\D,TM]_A5PC7QQU[`;==WDH<' MRTA6N:]\:>.@H-JKL!81:D1L=Q&6W0`+Y79B[1S;CO58=6A,BFUM[&?A-]UG MMA.0N"MI1AW"SE;13Y[<)0\T^ZN%_>JUL6DB<#5/1<?X,99"2J5=0\\C7TDM M<I>/#(]NE&K3)^@-7N5`_B#>BGG))GK,N>-3<71A"DW`[I>?!`(PBIN(%U3N M[E+)0U=8SWG,TF%&F845%V9QAYQG%G6+#PV9S#Z<YE>@$)*=&::9FDQB)W?2 MFE'>V9'6%^<]>VZA2&Y,:*,54&*:;I=SC6P,R\S%1?8QBX!:4%HV/&,#,_5$ M<6:*G$6<RO_>>;L^;BIL^8)?.6;XCP73Y<Q`M[T8F[=DE&SK+Y[6#YP^]GK4 MB]8W[_'I0?N0MDJF;C,U3>I1N_)Y]1S?D!5"[//5.+*/U.TI#7P\4Y_8=96. MKT8U4T!<SK"LD-*PGL4+K67+C]SD+G8EVMMG@-EZQIV&R7N->.7OT=*<$%LN M_H\4E;?.SLBMW90@RQQ"X3+F&9+G?C?"=>V)<"^,U^]V-;6]K#(@"RJXK2:K MZ7+*P%D34-O0+J2UZWE*:MHZ?`4_[,'MO)"4HQ@Y%2888!I'TV)*S5_Q[/(9 MQTHH5@O7C!WH>"T-4Y^`R\VK:>EWM;MZY(0SW<Z*UA%J6!Y"-->1HY3%MLAB M56]Z]A;D.S6NQQG]QU6PJ>@D_W0!/<PUJ3<=X?SVMF';#FXJ0F1^XD3PN-Y9 MV&K;DM#5:V>G',UM,FUW"/SN,RF3+??%`W2>@F:\-L%YQ^0F<-R!23`)%^3; MP+'7>D@W]0I)8[^X&Q-8/D;[K:\*^=7S,>Q68;VR_B'\8J8BK8]K[>!I:>WG MW&F[N?*:VPRQ`\Y(?Z['96\\[),/;^&37OE1/_.?U\+UL>=/A6U&]637R?%' M:ZG#.N4RM^;9XXI3V?GF+_TQS_^,,%$,$$3/'W@':DLI=CV)`5ITWFOO>/J6 MW.'/I[VD?1Y_0,O%J!_C39*1&6!LE1:RO<;*$->%F!!#"1YV@-U0,<9/L</H MQ=R@55!SN=P5$98",ITDJ=D(`A0`YA7W89-8T1M>G,;RY1LP`9V"A9?PM0[E ML06'D<*N(>#^\=4)WIG2!2%#X-B4>=3T34^TI1):B5)_Y%#O[<>_]*"]M<T3 M*I8PC1=<-,KIN-?2$6'+_CD6&)82]*7?$S:8UZD:&]5=9LW*K$%-5"`%;J6( M4ZG5X]F8<<A@C06?#Q84[+'=&)I?D'64!T5<C*0:'C90ZP%:(PG@QX5$.MF< M\=@.\-G?!JK/WBR8E2FA8Z$,(&YB(*:,Q4'@Y$E??045)=X7M('%")U7KDT< M]NV@E+7.\5E.'QK>_GUB^)D@)1(<PC1?*+J8I<E1!F8>*G)4SMF&"_J7#H[, M#+K/`QZ.%IH6:?5B]FD%R(C?#R+2%X+5UPG0-,Z6.`;CV?3<6/F:]NP4I%D6 MU_50=OB4'L*AZ4U-$+$A$Y94T*5BJ1BC$,6C#[K/$7H7^="<*0ZBOZV=(K9> M_NP8'3EJV"@&TS:*(8?]U+41H.4=D9]=US>:WL\%("?BCY2)UXWAF9@IE-7Y MGAMFW.7QHG2DF")*&]PP)%!A816R2T.2FDWRW,7IEM51&0!.9%X`#^VL$<=, MF$=.(03.(4&QU1VR(/HURS`ZXP\68E,67E7&%D_BEQ_.XOM0TDUFE42:V7IU MXE"^)'25W[Q!'.)1(_P\3AEM7@.ZXQI:T`;-)3ZJ`NHQ)7X,6S<"HU79(!`1 M#]`YDAG`U55^Y5RZDTOYFR-BF%>.I=(XCDFA6<5AT2])55YB&2KZH5JVF<F1 M%66VX,EAW0UNSK=$'J)M%68M(D\1'RZB7?O0%PXA_B825J;CU0HN9HRX*1,` MK1FAJ5`6JIMPZN9N@1Z3#=;*0<Z0)*#..:-:B1;;<=X\,,-G0!C=2>';S2!A MIA]M8F,!@B#&T`WOB>3P94MH6A70G%,';-A&2:48D4R%R1><Q5U%]F6=1&9> M?1`A6I"EZ>)2-B,,4F=K<E8`/IW'^:4!UM+QW:(LFF3T;.0">4\#\4ULXI_N MU1_\$5G'C6/A-8Q>>2(2*HY\[N?<:='Y*)>`"A&#YN(S+DMW5LQ6?%]I<J'? MW:5U>@X11:-2XJ;3*)H9A:==)2"%%=ANDJ'=J2"('!Q^SHU]-AQ^$-O=<.$5 M9"=LOJC!R6A*.B+#=5U._I'ECH7173),1_I*:5I8TJSC/KU<$<))_^GB<_K= M:F+E0D:?N]7C7[J6A#@+<F7;EEHIDZXH"$+5.3[F(DJGQGG?*[4E=D9<;RYI M\0'D=&;H5G+H?>I=%M;IW$6DKF#@U!B(1FI5*Z;D5/*CG^I81&ZAHF*DEZ&A MIT(49(J"Z/GH%S$J,G:-0K)DIEIJ5;%F^'T2U"W?I!)6U>%HAU&=WN'JG5JG MJG&@GTH3<3'HZ:EIKT&98U9:SX"I@[$GX&'I0.$><[*8D6*K:`K$-A59^9$J M6"[H#9E9ANS>F:RK93IELS:<1"'@=K8-C$5/3%$E6K7J"!U>8RHH:.VH9T6J M_HSU'YXJ'%WAFTQ:(T3ZHR2.GAC^3G&B9_7-JXU(XHR&W9:]FF8ID-+U7%*- MU'I**3K5YG\PH#>.J+=PIK]$FKTD+/+!HJ-)WH_>IL2AA7^&FO+QJ0"-G\D^ M#F`^E]8L*R$NK.@UDHP>+(V-5ZGM+/7<%G+69K`6ZUX%&FI>ZX+)H7YRZHTH MIE6:I>*M7S:1X#4&+3@Z4L=*;*WEH,6VG_F\86>%3IB5YZ`0JD\.!2)>!4LR M:YJ=4)Z&;:T68[J`J021*YJBXR96K=P9;9,@G85"3BG6U+2>&!H>V,]:CPKJ M:=2:#TM-+C4E%'K![*92;%S$H)*JDK?636S"H]!._L'<RJSLC""@HBWJ&>V$ M.FTLH2CO=A[AE=;R9"G%%23]B6"3(FA@NF2V)J1#AE=)_EL`@>N%8>RV]*'/ M?DG,&N']W*-=FET%MJBN\LJMQ>DN(M:Y,2?%&E:[`EBY0J'JYEL><6Y([:KL M4J^HR8@V#N?)N%P'>ABGC2?5=I%'NE%"3NX9IB-"%JTF^FWYJAR:EDG#3A!N MOA-2T<_(S2_C*J[]%A%LSJ.]-DT<W@OES*=O29C<)FD97IPXE2U_#FHU0>W? M7C`+_^)OF>FW'<I#.ND&5V_:=J&:QA7'UMTNY"R)&B)[R="\*:7#Y*N?</"Q MJJ9`&2DC4>0RDF))8$I4_NZPE=''[0JP^N`?QMF1:UX,V5'IYI)7*VGF7L;> M&ALLIDJQQ6;L9'TCIZ*P2$UJ!&MQ8GVP[YGP&2OG;,(@^OQ8JA8FQW;/ZMP) MZ*(O6)XB%",OI2*K"+9CZ"FCJ.JQ$`9QM&)FY-+H:&;=;&T6D'V)MN:=B?$8 MR@+O\38O1<EA<LXP*&I,NS0:?!D3)A<;JK;G]?;QR$GG<UUA(O:PK)E3*5[8 M]&FOFS6R5&[5U,4?K]"R^-KR+<^46\JC'P.L[RXE%F/MN!2SYA8F#4Z;)N[G ML!+?ISHKK7UF*,*9-PO5QTYSI_DJ>*HMH&[J:0S8^&;E@/IPN[YBMKJ)JD(R M_GF!9@:?8$6*7/3",#Q[8Q<#L99>,[$^7O;\)OZ2F34;*_9EM+$6-,D!)$,J MM/W.YT*CVSQOJ^U>\ZSNU77N'@!U\&VZL[1-5$BJGNA&B6^.M(`MINJ!-$ZG MZP`WM/5J1IBN])_5WC#SGY9=&V4^6U%SKW0LL;-B91%;Z3V?ZQOW]/W2<Q!O MXZ)-K_QE'M9V]:*&\$>AL0.6V&&"ZI$FK@8;KR23HR`#<#/N(\JM,E:?;13^ M+NL^!XPDLP['*#_+[:\^%1W^+;/`ITJ3[IZ2'D<G)EZ33Q!6]0&#VI)"\%O? M-6%6:4E[\%X[$+[6+2H7%;P\L1':]%U)<V/;*/GV_D7*22`@WTR7KEX&WDK? MN7`D"30F#\=1F_2_2B&QIBB;4I^4NJB#KBJO9=E!QDRHIC5-"^LH[NU+\32( M&3;YE36/LL352#<8YL$F_W`V=PK&K605*RTGR:+6ONHVK]5Z>:BQ9;$NU&6F M7K`Z=R9N#P_AKF_SI?9=$]GI;+5AGC#R'"9,9M\'0@]XZ<NE&JY=F=4*FR;Q M-"])6N35#:1=5\Y2,[@^R^]^$Z,)WRX?Y^5F_O%><W*$F5=`67:7IK%7:J;P MOFQ+UC==8I=]:7>5S61PL]1Y739FHV3P#7`(<W,+KO`7&[(K'XY#/>#'5A;* MVF)^"O6#6]-\>_99TWB-_BOPUAZX7]O7AK]17I]JAZ>6/9V:YPX7.,?G.,<V M\Q9DJ%':*1.VFN=Q>%,Y@UBYV4YK-LD4C.^WAWMW@<_C8KN9,6O@HO8;'0NU M_!+<'8OYQ(&?]Y*N=C/CX@2HCA/.(#?@BN-96V\Y5YXTY+J>=\ZVT]J=&<LF MG5Y2ULS>=TEY$W/GD;KLID.J6_?N*R]6\=+)J7\R+&NZHV>N.J$D2)958NMI M=].@+&/Y$L<K%-THI+<I&>N1-:ZVX,ZZ;>$MA-OUD,&1`>LZN'$Z/YOT'SO7 M/].SKVH.6%LZ7:?X,5XU-^?H:W/Y<)=WZL6Z;)QOI5YC'(G*_RYG<VN[PG;J M_G>7[J'QEO/RX*!/]/5)KDV>RS&*]%PSL9O_#O8:"UHFJU3/K)QJ.6A?8;S= MN0D.,;]W]')W,CW&VB*+C@?K<B*S=.XZ)IVO;D(YZD&AH.L1NCI#7K"N3T&C MN81W+P)__(-S,5<W%:P=A2D!+6ZY6K('=W#"WU)XTM9XD8.:.JZ*=HA5O5'5 M$)>O:5;AL4H&<+/]9WQ-IL]'GL!Z.;>)9VF;3(&"6G'+I;,5X!0;Q^O98BLJ MNDQ\X)*1N"O/^8MGO;077$]Q%YJ+<9R/?>0XS.\.(!].`S(/>Y_RW=&CL"[E M<'%M4MRT%Q5JGF?\G-5WOM.[9D$1?HV_(S%S8C5'_N*Q?.;I&CXS,U`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`@R(Q:KA55.8.@/I0E1U8CES(.D'U!>1F#R;)G.%_% M)HZJ@/*<.ERYRF9%FU8M36'`CL9$:H4HN;%"YW:ZJO&GQ64,!Q(58^SMV8PR M_D]6P^=4F@N>F.P6Y7J4JBNLV:`UK$KWEL.HGE0FMI;3Y%K2I3D:%EK3&P.E M)D-6Q<M3H[T>@#U^E")8IVF=)9,^G`;V:\5VSH3,-/WVGK_(23_)E*@NFANQ MGGE?QTZFV4U3_(Q#4G[/-;_)!GN1#V;535L]XO.&[^?2<&?@3:EI#BY;*[)( M?N'"@@^GC@R)ZB-!(O*JE-`0/"D[!Q_D@KO<T@.OC$I<*P@)K(`BJ+^VN,GK M/0V7FS"D^%XJ+SA1*@*.FO4N.4Z_>5:S<!W,NK*/NQS#^BT%T5J$,$@AEYIP MJ!$]K$>U$W#*(Z<BT]GF+^:.1!*@<>[:+TO_P+B+_IGZJGMJ16X"/(;,*2F+ M,$3'MBF0P.<\ZRXQ4(2[;$@[[Q0M1"4[#*PL\V9C*ST.;6PG(?20PV1,ML#) M"HTVQ_LL-#JYPK.5P4BD]"KT>(P3@G+$VJJZ2D<E]<%-Q2E4(-O@I)+1XMIC M9T1SS.SO(%IQ%(6B3U6,B$4MPS#S5N/"0]3)"N-D@D!6.]61P5*?Y:U)!Y&S M2,E9#@JFV+UZ0M6J3&'DTBVCY.K,0,[D_#2UTBI#*$E4)ZN20M0VF75!$9N! M-E]]PX5Q)@ZWRM-&>`7U;\UN82N//W>^&=>)7-')-<%E]TQ+V!.[:3*?J;CE M44"O?!5XI7U')AF>-<T#_E$U0`@-:M4257TQ4!35C3"ZPWH$F>"X3!:HW6]K M/<7$?FXU5$3+:"XYZ5(-_@]F/VJCCB]CBQWH:"LS]*7:EBS.X2NF'%9P8HIY MEE$[:[%^^>)7+<M,&Z.Y5CKN2@?FLVRZC61/8<>:RSD*:66>&?`:O69P,?PH MK#@;N)^4[,:4B2S;'X`%S/!QN2_?-U@H3X6:Q*Z6H[8W#PEI^5<A%UN2K'2M M0SQQ8;C^6))#G[QZRQ>56QQSW;&#KZ\B?:>RS$<H+5H_EN>-LD+3[13S0#<G M%9GI=<W.<V@C_Z9-1K['8'=W[TFC%3;K14\42IIM\TG<W]U;WV^.Y[;!K!RE M_LLM=^Y'O_^FY/VEG=\-T[[;]P1HJM<QB3/S`0KI,$(Z>M$.1-1:F?D@.#;X MM:9!SL,06)!V.>_XCFK7"-_:6&&_`98P1AN+SY\T)BO(82-T(A3>;=A7&6FQ M0V"D:HJ/\`.5]:#F=,":G#;P%:MXD`E])D2B?!H3M6<`#%X?Q%_RTG:[*4&- M>+6KG.R6!S[HH4LS#G&<`#?UP'<)#D"_Z-X6D[C&53P1:Z3H6[;21RBZ/4XW MNZE>U1HX1L^-2B)>/,QX0L;&8<U0C4K<("$5::GA<8M_V]N-]")XK/,$+VH$ M*YZ4$MDPM0@'CCE<71A)."17G8@0H[3)(E5)O03>_BN,4TN?VY:X-ELU4G24 M!(FVS.C'!=''DZ`ACGI6F:9A%M.8F<BC_MBSK1LM4'(%.Y)N)JFGUIV&D;/S M)2`A>4SQ5?.8WTPB%$]EOBQ&DX5(>DTSW2C%TO&/@A`"$GT"R2)W6@Z<\;IG M/K]7-/VY$U.F!%T0Y;BW#KE,0K5#)8J4THE'7?)?^H1H1,$903\Y:5O8.ED, M\P88OMVP2VC$(P[1E2P$M>EZ6I-H2E6Z1O>U$X\*/!ZLY&A+2[Z1-<@49K[H ME#U[?F>E/P6J&&'9SUO^$VTTG2G[DEI.Y*TS<QK<21K_D]"@5M6J:/D9`HU: MMW/RJ7R,:FD]M2A#JC;J_I!IDNI5U;I6WC%)0@;[*"TUF3>C(72.QL);'^=V MF;+NC*U_!6PG%?>Y)I)S'HH:GW<&2UBDT;%_*>UK8"4[V1G%;&(-U,LY!Y8P MQ!:P<S%M:2RY2EG2EM:TX2+J(Y4:(.!EKYF:Y"B@^+C-T];6MJ<5)]O,8KM6 M/9.Q>.V<'F%9M9VE];;'1>Y*PQHPRG&.DPR+Y00W9U%O56\^R<5N=M7:2A52 M#J?6S:Q8R[=`9BI,2P0]JW;5NUZY[;&B%=UM#>/RPL4R\[K,E=K+;A@S]O;7 MOT+]''4/FAJ,6JV*ZAKO'?]40.7E-[+_A7"$UP*=@]GTO@D#:5<K&9N!MD^8 M_IO]D.>,*V$2EQB>^+4A29/Q/[7E5ZF]%2Z1SI*Q3(S8Q#?&L5EG5SI1VM2P MZC.OY<"ZI`Y[$V\I[E:.E;QD1.K7E?#%)D/(6%?.!EA*/PL:3=:YEP`RV<M? M/N-R':M:EKT6IPS#<I&#RS@M^M.\,`1SG.5,S-FNSX"A3>PRJ>A$-;TV913U MZ3@C-V="%]J9<67N03_:.$M*E\%E)".+^4Q#1QK:TI<^<`==>&<_Q^:S(M9L M5(],X`.GL(?CPW2JE^PRII+/@&?J;(7QJCRJ]?%IMZ$*9F>39E7WFL2QDF\6 M%4NON^TWH#+%,IZON.59<UFT>O5UM-7;RD2[4I9#_IS<0Z'XJEN'MJ<P`X^C M66UC:9>;LE@*MCI7R]AE%]2<LHUQ+9$G7/K2&'$/-G>^5<E`#U?[U!E`6;/5 MK>>+'O79((;O7*478F,Z3]\/[X)3$^Q2ZG9ZO_76$UQUMCV#^L7;+93E/14+ M<9+7.,/V[9BBS?QQ74H:2Z'6<UVGFUG^7DO8;`13,$L.\5J+]]I,]+$X"^[J MF#KMV6SNL>0&U>=!LQ1D0MMYM)E]RK&V?--\+>>H,UX(3UEXJ#5%>7G+K/1) MAU.;_(WZI8==:K]MI]5(;F37#U1Q:5K;J5%,YYK16YRE;Q)S.QIYVJ6-\@T[ M&\I'C?)C&`[<GG7TU&VN_N2:&8]A62,QE%`7?*$/'WFO^WS1#-ZQE1/URTFI MQXT)]R!=(<-AW7KO80OY=N9OK/<H1;K'<I>B^YI#U*-]/H-E-'W<>\:Q&0.- MG9:_X,]E+^>OPEB(5^<CD35T874Z=IZ2XM5H=.G;MF%+RDOE\SX]"?OT+C^Y MW9VDXT_N4-R<(,J'4O#T+]B:6[PWR6)57\#1"=O"[&XX;N\R\XLPRJ,F_&N^ M:ILFQWLKF,LF72&<%=HSM-D[+"*_&(.\OW,XV,,\`3R_JS,Z#&LB,@,@3M.T MS<$L'5&62)F5K^L\X],_IANNO&NO^ANYV.-`Y**VF?(Y<#L\'Z(ZH$L]WW!` M_C'1LO?A,>*;I0R;M9#:I<2!&T'SKAO$K1%LM5<20=X3,-S0F.*CGP6D/PM: MP=^K.`TS)YO;B&^QMW<Z(S3YFBK#-RE4I+:Q0&"[/Z;K.I>:%^T3,`H#I>=X M$\0K*E9+E:O1M0V<.#5<0Y0*#%+S(3B4+$130O8KP3J[+DW+%$"S1&#ZHB', MQ%'#'@(LP0:CLO[CK<#)'4%K1$<$K.:CO$.\PIO;OBR<D^<CO[`IJ5WYO1U+ M-W*B-#LSL*S#L\!I.G#ACX]Y0U7<)PEDO$9#,=`)'?LC05AK/^?8H=_P-^D: MLP93E+';NG<#L0%J*'XJ/V1<)83#)'4#0??`ID?2_L7?P4+H$94O'"DZC+EU MDY<D_,8->ZGI>0>-LS)R!*K8"JBA:T;V>SXK!$*Z@SXP(3TPM"4ZM")\$L2B M6SRF.48O0*5J++B+!$B2^<$W:T'=*\-K?+5,%$EB&#\PNCP)JD.]ZD00BB*- MRC:_RQPP4DB.[,BEB3=TE#7[4T!)Y#1:?#7,\!HP)`S#,L>L41M(7+"7(S?7 M"Y1TS,E\HCYER"B+^C2/<C*K4SGUNRF'B92ZN!*OFZ(##,H@^S"Z(@R<[*05 M1+6I_*;B&3<4VKWM&SI,'$%*/(<[>!0BS*V@^S[)"S0C$Y<C\BNXS$EGHSG. M4ZT]>ZLK]$)?N;TKVT3I_J@U'MRZ(:-"\3$VLL,+!4),<DS`G^LY@\3#A#S( MU`(^ZDN'_-C!0AS$FUL]LJR2IH0VEF#+T,PQ@IJX('RRJB2.5XQ,)&O$/5)) M75.\"QRO<Q1,\/(L900<Z-+-J(NKP,M+U'PRCP$ZB(%%!'REFRD]K^PVW=I% MK;-!F2DO0CS,Z2RY[F+,(DPQUAPPX>3.>;,ZJ=F,L#//BZ`O=^NF\<PJ7GP; M_)F@W&3/<UN4ZE)+H5S+:-S*U*P+)RO,]@,X[IPY(4.Z`9/%%S.>L;JD_1G, MG1C'`[VM[C.D[*2XIHI&^C3)G$G(B]JIC;PR@6.T2WD,UA$:C).KYKI-"350 M_A)=I.K\RMWS1EM8KI+,FO?S-_[+S).Z3XH$/G6LL+4#.YY2S_B4C;Y#*D0$ MTM*"KL;,0I%\QJ"<NS*=3`_32L.;18($J2/]S%_Y1D1!MZC<#_%<TS,9T/[L MTD?,-,RD1]AD4*'<RUR<1>TLT$`4OGF#P9`#+_WK19D$4>ULO-;C.U)+CCU- M1B,+O1XL2)^<3'_QU+\$QCYSN$B2(0Y=QBQMCYE432WEJ*X<U1:4U%/=FNQ< M0$RUIL#\MTVS4\]#TE#=SFV+K30-U%^=R3P:R/[I3&A"IGRDL8\T3<S4'D!I M(XRT4B[D4ERU'N\S41&\R>IZS$#U5(?B2E*5S:ML_C=]%,?Y<K4I.E,B[4Z@ M-%1*C46WRU93J\0U%5:*:T(L"DTYG"Y1+<Y)!<K<"L/ZK+V$!4Z[NM-.Y$E? M)%84*B1`W"CH"]8V5;-WXSXX(T:0,]?&_+A;$M6.3$5[@L9PA5#=Z\(5;<8[ MQ$MC?:%;4\+_@3O;.[V#K%@63+_3O,X`RR1(?`5[TTL(U4<ZHU0!G#K0`TPU M/4GG<DLBS:#A[,YM>[N`K32R:RU9?4B))9Z8U<%*RY@K2J:6Q3IJRA]_?4_< MP[^IE1^Q],7VK,<3'=?(K!.3#%<Q1,AXG41)O;NZA=@D2[I0+,UA);B_;54I M[4:[`ME=N]<S$U'?L]"D_KJ4N1Q3DG/5GK18^70;%HTC6.59D@S)@GVL9%NL M_7O8"57.O$(?X"0/4+5)X</*#V4D9'7;=U38VONBI^.Q4R1,[?+!8X/(<X79 M"L366_753PI=-XO8)$U.;BL[]"O2=`0TGM7+X%5=LL1&LSU;-WQ0YV*X.&59 MD+16EOPO5['/GIU/JS5.EGW-S47)>85<EI.^6DJ5L7M66IM2]71<Q:S7[O5. MJ8U6-,'8SIVY6.5#D@C%?OV.JD2]O[K$(SRVAQW.293:)P6WU%'(L<U&/[&] M_/M%)*S:B03A^KE'BH6C]\RKM(79QFW6/137G.I;=B1@7B,F'DW#'TV:Z4W6 M_O-54>;]WQ4&5KLS2-6$7[WM*L*K15,51<Z#W>>T5P4I6Q7%TI<4U*,<(79[ M4:S]UGHAX&%\KE;17!\=T;_SL2'N4R3%NGP5T_@B4^^44F7*UP_-WIVDP+I) MO?W$+UQ;U9LUS;TM5^.%SH2"VC8>P[O\82SDEXJ%U\T[H6$RWPZUVJ5%7]`E MU+$DHD6639ZTW@WN/52MLNV,6YUAH3)K1Y5#34.^3M[;0)]QJPSVON0=RAYM M&-ZD2QA3X^.#P:>,EK$E2N&]V\`MR4KFVQ(QY0R<Y,K[3@=S7J6T0-\"WC$, MM2DN2UD<Y`E..C*\XO!U6">-+R]$3HJY7YI#8L#M_L4I6RI=7ICF#3;%'#@_ M)EMBTU?JW5T4_6-;[3<KEJ_E?+QT1<.--6/,)60#S+I&Q5D]O29M3LL"H]OB MR^:(M#,QB])4C-04GLVR8A=_(M;^!=;%!63.+65(B]WU-;A+EF1:9E+5LYV^ M$^C\#=.5BV9H%J\Y/<$Q-KE;U<;]U:^.+L6:!ESGS=K0'>5;AH(R?=KSE#%[ M?F`9/>1)UL,VK,\&EF)P_4#&:#N6+M;5C6B,U<_A&^!PCL@XMDM@ON5YEM!T M#E]W;1K+W-LQIKJUU6`(WEGBW.<415L]YK!-'M<Z/%BASN)?YF!YY>3!;5+, M'=,*7+^!%=]5%=&9W4]._D;</^VMQ%NQ9C;K4JI68O;?LW7I:J$M=.55MF7= ML5AH%_V1>^[&^[7DSVYIRVS;32U;ZI7K4JWF=G)#UW;!@0Y@;TU4_!VLT0Z_ M-;:^Z!-N>3A)FK92%R7`R_;`]#W43([J++XSCG9.2`IK$*W<=UUM$@S#+@1K M"8KMARYD0Z+/#DN1W*4I@C3'C-KH+6[-0S7L+:P^N*XICRP[5*T'3HW@NGM% M@O;F"*U@(%8Q-I[B.A-P2F9?!![FSU;2B_WNH>#KSOL;##I"9L-/.[2^43Y= M]SU?]^UJSRQ:I8G?)4R2CW3GW_7@J/YK4T;833SPD_6N\>[K%2YP=C3FL);N M_G\>;XX38TYMZ_SL%2:660\V0@+'2Y<5-1PG8;X&;B;THY?69[12[`+\5@K% M;+K^Z^AN$!Y]Y\R>K1MN94!^:NV>X2W_:.P67D"$Z,!C16N4;7(&:8';U9N- MXR7]P?NZZDY3/!P&EZ\FV`#DSYB#5UB62U?VW__N;W(%[$@^TH45TJ:MX+V. M\1:]6,#\9THW$5)`P><A7WYK9ZH>Z3B'/(,EZY6-1=6V<]QQ)EFNZX!A<2B= M$6Q]O.?L8_>+]!;?RAHOU&81<V-.V5->\=JU=<^MY^+]U"B^[32>YZ-464TO MO98<S>3T5NYE]#Y'2`!D[SD%Y35&\V.?5I&(6(,V_MJ.&^KO-'(G1FX5;BK6 M7N^5,'0V9G`&_>AVE_="?^%V$W9E9%ID_O+NB#Z-!:W-I+=4WEHW5?`0EG6G MG6\CC,#[N1=57L]/5C_0Y%PM+&('M69AOOA@G_#LAG&AGO<<IV<RG?,ZPF*, M1KO\'+_F007GZR'C%,@;9UYKSV,3_\DWNCCJD%,5DY3DXU5>EW"4-W;"\[@* MIV*!QW=J+G92+^WN_GCK@G0?QW(4_WBGUFF-=_$'+UH^EL$4/QP,LMWZK4*C M.\V(3]C?>GF2!-/@7=[-B%!U#CX$O_KO:N2;?^,.K_6I_]5VAWMZ!_#_5?=Z MMWJ-7VKD1=CK9>)L-^VN_O>E+FIJU/WN</ZZ_G9Q3;;XJ2[BJ/5TR)9Y-@'Z MI]=J\M9PN=7C%IUV;Y8[JC=TOYYF[=MKME_WP)=W'M_Q._?HD53V!_T17.Q< MPV%WL%U--`7^F;;IOVQ'Z);1XZ6GONGANHSZ+@;3/>'?N9;,L79=6"4]E53^ M&<_IO1]MU?=^0VUZC/])DQ==JL?]=;;8Z&7S'!JILUO&!DU0.1ZJ#:=_ZT;H MTE=*C)=7@V>*$)S0N24`)):XVLX0I28GI`]8??OV76@L(%:*THE]9JN@V=&J ML!C/;)1[;L5L'!;.$;R1#C)DDO1B+D<C6["2J0I]N>)ERMUZNT,M%_@5;\6X M_J<S3`:C0+Q5NXH-_^YCO#N__]+2.H&!:48427T:$U`IB'^.A(]PD),\?X6, M?G,K6)AH64<OBTBA2D=+AXN),EEF'YF-H3V3;9B/5WN)J9%KF["?AJ)0)EZO M>B6*>)UZ6LO)E+K/-7`UP(=KRKW64\Z1T8#0VFHTW8S>.C<6<2G.J594IJ:Z MUTX1@YGE9YUTO^C/5K>]6+'#IHZ2I4I$[LD+%K!,'7RTS*'1)I'0I1DG)!W; M*%&?L5L(.68<9I#AN%\<+Q)$I)((,DV-1I4J)0\>O"@A03:4PXW/QVPD^?7, M*5!5R7!#R@$5)$H-*7,(C;;KR%/6RF/56IXB.?)D_C>AL>9AS!I2!55OX")J MG*6P;;JPM`3)5(*1ILPH9'?F*P+0JA"??CWZM>A6V`\PP:S9$KS/WM-5`Y<" M)I=VI+^K1Q_C0GHM;U14@D6R#<R2,N1J-@ZBY(HN--A*G%K%70CJYIM3=+=B M[@%QW<3&BF0!/[W;;$Y]D.@E%EUK\NW*'7O#\AJYT'#2IC5V%JM9M>FQQK\Q MS9X6.A/KF+\S;_55^ER<<^_F=DJ1?FODL1D?=\6Y'42CX;4''5[D+,:7=.#4 M9F!^LBDEV7C@=0>>6UYQI5Q_2+UEF7IH58AA5:*5!!55OKFGDS+K'8:/@K4U M08I<\[U'X5E#3?9;C2;R_F+@:H09XIAJ0+G2W79JC2;@/.=]9V0T'(HC7H<2 MIAAA9\G]J-*")+)WT8-%<8A2/#,M1^!AAEF8U!PU`K&3EE;:TR)H768)(7TI MS?BFDP%*AMYT@+WD$!_"%6C>A#2.>$<Q(KZ958^"=C4EEY0!^I$Q!?F9"Q67 MXC0F:/54)E^3-C;3#QV.$KD6J#@R^1B6EDXSYJ#[!2D)I)[)VJ.AC+Y8*V?> MG2GG-R0ZXF%%.$9UYG^DE;E/<(1>:,1Y`/9AY:TZ+:H0:Q]2$Z*?XV2T74\` M"7M61#SNV:"6():IY*F>4?<DJK_NY^:C\+8)K(Y9,ML5<2ZHR6RFF&K7+YZ9 MP?&+H&NN[9E>E,D%E:J4SBJ8;'6*(4ED40JC2Q0V<1[+HS3OTHO=DK,J:J^9 M\,;4+L/R:H58GG9N9NF_SPZX3+2M5EOI2W\UH]3#16()],O2)@AKL$-^^)L< MK1']3DM+!TJK6*6BUG"J'I\4"\LAB^1UKAP#'3;),D^Z:U(WDTM>?Q@#>?#, M8%\6-#"V_MFQMJ9FO)I<V.KE=*9QCNURB57=ZBC2(:"88(AU$AMEO9YJFS-< 0]L;ZY[6@LL*75&U^40``.^KE ` end
There's a program called "Icon Frightener" included with the book Stupid Windows Tricks by Bob LeVitus and Ed Tittel (Addison-Wesley, 1992). It's freeware. If it's not on the net anywhere, I'll happily email a copy to someone who's willing to upload it (I can't upload through our Internet firewall).
No, do I have to? I'm just commenting that it makes very little sense to consider everything we inherit to be the default. Seen any steam trains recently?
Because most of the children were with their parent(s). Do you understand that concept? Here's a bunch of people who believe in their minds that the forces of Satanic evil are outside and you expect them to hand over their own children? Were you born that stupid or does it take a lot of effort?
For the second straight game, California scored a ton of late runs to crush the Brewhas. It was six runs in the 8th for a 12-5 win Monday and five in the 8th and six in the 9th for a 12-2 win yesterday. Jamie Navarro pitched seven strong innings, but Orosco, Austin, Manzanillo and Lloyd all took part in the mockery of a bullpen yesterday. How's this for numbers? Maldanado has pitched three scoreless innings and Navarro's ERA is 0.75. The next lowest on the staff is Wegman at 5.14. Ouch! It doesn't look much better for the hitters. Hamilton is batting .481, while Thon is hitting .458 and has seven RBI. The next highest is three. The next best hitter is Jaha at .267 and then Vaughn, who has the team's only HR, at .238. Another ouch. Looking at the stats, it's not hard to see why the team is 2-5. In fact, 2-5 doesn't sound bad when you're averaging three runs/game and giving up 6.6/game. Still, it's early and things will undoubtedly get better. The offense should come around, but the bullpen is a major worry. Fetters, Plesac and Austin gave the Brewers great middle relief last year. Lloyd, Maldanado, Manzanillo, Fetters, Austin and Orosco will have to pick up the pace for the team to be successful. Milwaukee won a number of games last year when middle relief either held small leads or kept small deficits in place. The starters will be okay, the defense will be alright and the hitting will come around, but the bullpen is a big question mark. In other news, Nilsson and Doran were reactivated yesterday, while William Suero was sent down and Tim McIntosh was picked up by Montreal. Today's game with California was cancelled.
There's a pretty good article in the the March 6, 1993 New Scientist titled "Pouring cold water on Lorenzo's oil". The article states that research has shown that the oil has no discernable effect on the progression of the disease in patients in which demyelination has begun. In patients with AMN (a less acute form of the same disease) there is some improvement seen in the ability of nerve fibres to conduct impulses. In ALD patients who have not yet begun demyelination, the jury is still out.
The O's just lost to the Rangers a few minutes ago I was not too happy about the pitching of Rick Sutcliffe (6 runs in 6 innings, 5 in the 3?) This puts me in remembering the 1990 O's season. After '89 we didn't do much over winter and we wound up in 5th. Now I know that Mussina, McDonald, and Rhodes are better pitching prospects than Ballard and Milacki but are any other Oriole fans scared out there? Admiral Steve C. Liu
I think George is referring to switch.zip in the ~ftp/pub/pc/win3/drivers/video directory. Description reads -- Switcher: Windows Video Mode Switcher.
Compiled from the last five Defensive Average reports, here are the career DAs for the individual players in the reports. Stats are courtesy of Sherri Nichols. Players are listed in descending order. Third Basemen ------------- Name 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 88-92 Mitchell, Kevin .690 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.690 Gonzales, Rene .685 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.685 Leius, Scott ---- ---- ---- .653 .680 0.672 Pendleton, Terry .692 .685 .631 .689 .634 0.667 Ventura, Robin ---- ---- .641 .647 .677 0.657 Wallach, Tim .728 .674 .600 .630 .665 0.657 Gruber, Kelly .717 .657 .580 .630 .664 0.650 Pagliarulo, Mike .631 ---- .575 .744 ---- 0.649 Harris, Lance ---- ---- .642 .652 ---- 0.648 Howell, Jack .656 .666 .609 ---- ---- 0.647 Williams, Matt ---- ---- .633 .653 .656 0.647 Caminiti, Ken ---- .675 .630 .653 .596 0.642 Sabo, Chris .751 .626 .616 .613 .575 0.642 Gaetti, Gary .616 .638 .655 .632 ---- 0.637 Buechele, Steve .647 .616 .647 .681 .599 0.635 Salazar, Luis ---- .617 .643 .637 ---- 0.632 Pecota, Bill ---- ---- ---- .629 ---- 0.629 Schmidt, Mike .628 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.628 Riles, Ernie ---- .627 ---- ---- ---- 0.627 Boggs, Wade .643 .659 .550 .653 .634 0.626 Martinez, Egdar ---- ---- .621 .645 .599 0.624 Molitor, Paul .633 .617 ---- ---- ---- 0.624 Phillips, Tony ---- ---- .623 ---- ---- 0.623 *NL Average* .643 .625 .602 .623 .603 0.619 Brookens, Tom .616 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.616 King, Jeff ---- ---- .616 ---- ---- 0.616 Seitzer, Kevin .654 .583 .593 ---- .635 0.616 *AL Average* .641 .612 .604 .620 .602 0.615 Jacoby, Brook .624 .621 .600 ---- .597 0.613 Hansen, Dave ---- ---- ---- ---- .611 0.611 Law, Vance .635 .576 ---- ---- ---- 0.611 Magadan, Dave ---- ---- ---- ---- .609 0.609 Jefferies, Greg ---- ---- ---- ---- .606 0.606 Sharperson, Mike ---- ---- .606 ---- ---- 0.606 Zeile, Todd ---- ---- ---- .614 .593 0.605 Baerga, Carlos ---- ---- ---- .604 ---- 0.604 Hayes, Chris ---- .601 .622 .606 .574 0.602 Livingstone, Scott ---- ---- ---- ---- .597 0.597 Hamilton, J. .611 .584 ---- ---- ---- 0.595 Kelly, Pat ---- ---- ---- .595 ---- 0.595 Lyons, Steve .590 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.590 Oberkfell, Ken .590 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.590 Johnson, Howard .628 .549 .611 .573 ---- 0.588 Bell, Buddy .587 ---- ---- ---- ---- 0.587 Lansford, Carney .620 .578 .594 ---- .550 0.587 Presley, Jim .643 .595 .530 ---- ---- 0.584 Schu, Rick ---- .584 ---- ---- ---- 0.584 Worthington, Cal ---- .583 .575 ---- ---- 0.580 Hollins, Dave ---- ---- ---- ---- .577 0.577 Sheffield, Gary ---- ---- .584 ---- .567 0.575 Blauser, Jeff ---- .573 ---- ---- ---- 0.573 Fryman, Travis ---- ---- ---- .571 ---- 0.571 Gantner, Jim ---- ---- ---- .570 ---- 0.570 Gomez, Lee ---- ---- ---- .551 .542 0.546 Palmer, Dean ---- ---- ---- ---- .520 0.520 -- Dale J. Stephenson |*| (steph@cs.uiuc.edu) |*| Grad Student At Large
Such lunacy!
Tcpview is the result of several problems we had at UW. We have several Network General Sniffers which are heavily used to help debug problems on several hundred subnets. These are good tools, but they are 1) heavy, 2) hard to find when you need one, 3) limited in their software expandibility, 4) difficult to use to upload data for analysis, 5) cannot be remotely operated, and 6) cannot resolve names with DNS, requiring much manual manipulation of the name table. We also sometimes use tcpdump, but we found it 1) too difficult for most people, 2) did not have enough information for many protocols, 3) could not be used interactively, 4) could not handle TCP streams and 5) could not read Sniffer files. However, tcpdump did do a reasonable job of decoding a large number of protocols, and could be easily modified. Tcpview is an attempt to resolve these problems by adding a Motif interface to tcpdump and expanding its features. Tcpview has been tested on a DECstation 5000 and Sun 4 under Ultrix 4.2 and SunOS 4.1 respectively. It should work on the same systems as tcpdump. It compiles with cc and gcc on the DEC and Sun. To build tcpview you will need Motif 1.1 or better. The following files are available for anonymous ftp from ftp.cac.washington.edu in /pub/networking tcpview-1.0.tar.Z tcpview and tcpdump source code tcpview-1.0.sun.tar.Z Sun4 binaries tcpview-1.0.dec.tar.Z DEC Mips Ultrix 4.2 binaries What tcpview adds to tcpdump: - easier interface - enhanced protocol decoding - hex display of frame - capture based on time, number of frames, or user interrupt - can show ethernet addresses with manufacturer's name - ethernet address host table - can easily follow a stream, highlighting out-of-order frames - can send TCP data to an external file or filter for additional processing. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CHANGES TO TCPDUMP 2.2.1 New features: Now reads and writes Network General Sniffer files. When used with '-r', the file type will be automatically detected. Can now read in (and use) an SNMP MIB file. The hex format has been changed. New time options have been added. Options were added to allow viewing and processing of the data in TCP packets. Bugs were fixed in the relative TCP sequence numbers. (-S flag) New flags: -R read Sniffer file. Not usually needed, except for reading from stdin -ttt prints delta times -tttt prints times relative to the first frame -W write a Sniffer save file (use with -w) -x print frame (minus link-level header) in hexdump format. Sample output: 16:36:23.349851 jeff.cac.washington.edu.1285 > nic.funet.fi.ftp: S 0:0(0) win 16384 0000 45 00 00 28 8a 98 00 00 3c 06 7c 9c 80 5f 70 02 | E..(....<.|.._p. 0010 80 d6 06 64 05 05 00 15 5b 19 4a 00 00 00 00 00 | ...d....[.J..... 0020 50 02 40 00 4e 13 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | P.@.N......... -X print TCP data in hexdump format (used with -Z) -z write TCP data to stdout (use with -t to eliminate timestamp) -Z write frames and TCP data to stdout Martin M. Hunt martinh@cac.washington.edu Networks & Distributed Computing University of Washington --
: I need to know the Pins to connect to make a loopback connector for a serial : port so I can build one. The loopback connector is used to test the : serial port. : : Thanks for any help. : : : Steve : Me Too!!!!!!! skcgoh@tartarus.uwa.edu.au
This algorithm works well for me: Algorithm to attempt to find outward-facing normals: --------------------------------------------------- First, mark all faces as UNKNOWN. Then create an edge dictionary that allows you to find all of the faces sharing a given edge (where an edge is two integers representing the two shared vertices). Pick an arbitrary face and mark it COUNTER_CLOCKWISE. Using the edge dictionary, orient all surrounding faces based on the orientation of this face. And recurse for all surrounding faces, consistently orienting the entire surface. Find the average of the vertices in this surface. Using that point, calculate a volume measurement, taking into account the face's orientation. If the volume turns out to be positive, assume the faces are oriented correctly. If it is negative, reverse their orientations (mark them CLOCKWISE). If any faces are still UNKNOWN after this, choose another face and go through the algorithm again. At the end, faces marked CLOCKWISE must have their indices reversed before facet normals are found. (Note: if you are running on Silicon Graphics machines and buy the IRIS Inventor 3D toolkit developers package you have the source to this algorithm-- see /usr/src/Inventor/tools/ivnorm/. If you're not... sorry, I can't give out the source, and even if I could it relies heavily on Inventor).
Sorry, but Mormons aren't generally considered to be Christians.
According to the hockey gurus over at ESPN, should the Islanders win tonite the two teams will have the same record, but the Devils will be playing the Penguins. This is because the Islanders have won the season series against the Devils. I think the rules for deciding a tie breaker include: 1. season series 2. goals against 3. goals for in this order (correct me if I'm wrong). Anyone have anything to add? Craig
Isn't this what HIV is about - the "normal immune response" to an exposure? I had electrical pulse nerve testing done a while back. The needles were taken from a dirty drawer in an instrument cart and were most certainly NOT sterile or even clean for that matter. More than likely they were fresh from the previous patient. I WAS concerned, but I kept my mouth shut. I probably should have raised hell!
Ruotsaleinen was a more than competent NHL'er...his choice of where to play when did not bear on his hockey playing ability. He was crucial to the Oilers Stanley Cup victory in 1990, the one without Gretzky, because he made an Oiler power play which was lethargic that year until he arrived slide into overdrive. The Oilers missed him more the following year than Kurri, and I think the Oilers would have make the finals if Ruotsaleinen has stayed around the following season, and would have beaten Pittsburgh with Ruotsaleinen and a healthy Messier...and delayed Pittsburgh's dynasty by a season.
I am curious: what does the /double_buffer parameter in smartdrv actually do for me? I seem to have less problems in Windows when I leave it out. Using a PS/2 with an ESDI drive, but also a PS/2 with a SCSI. Any response is welcome.
...
Actually, jon, that is quite true. Christian people have caused "objective morality" to look very "relative." After all, that was the point of the original question in this thread, i.e. can we toss out Christianity because it is so obviously inconsistent with its own principles? If you will bear with me, I will attempt to explain this apparent inconsistency from at least one Christian's viewpoint: If God exists and is the creator of mankind as the Bible claims, then He has a pretty well-defined concept of what makes people tick physically, emotionally, etc. GOD has an "objective" morality for us. That is to say, He has no trouble understanding what is good for (or detrimental to) the creature He created. Galatians 2:10-- For we [mankind] are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works [a morality], which God prepared beforehand [a well-defined design], that we might walk in them. However, contrary to what many people assume (including the Pharasees of the Bible,) God's morality cannot be completely codified in a list of rules and regulations. To some extent, every activity of a person's life creates a new situation to which morality must be applied. There never could be enough volumes to codify God's "objective" morality for us. Throughout history, mankind has tried to reduce morality to a list of rules (objectivity, if you please.) In the Old Testament, we have both principles and specific rules. By the time of Jesus, most of the principles were obscured by the emphasis men had placed on the rules. Volumes of additional rules had been made to try to codify the application of the principles. We [mankind] weren't comfortable with the "subjectivity" of principles. For reference see Matthew 5 where Jesus explains the difference between the Law and the principles of the Law. For example, in verses 21-22: "You have heard that the ancients were told, 'You shall not commit murder'...and 'Whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court.' But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be liable to the court..." The "objective morality" of God gets blurred by our inept interpretation of it. We [Christians] have made our biggest errors when we have allowed any one person or group of people decide EXACTLY what God intended for us. If we [Christians] would stay committed to seeking God's will instead of trying to prove we already had it all figured out, we might do a better job of allowing others to find God's "objective morality" for themselves. If Jesus is who he said he was/is (and that's the fundamental question,) then HE IS "objective morality."
The DEA and other organizations would have the American people believe that we are winning the "war on drugs". I'm going to dispel the propaganda that the DEA is putting out by showing you the drug war's *real* status. To help prove my assertions I've also posted two articles from USA Today that clearly demonstrate that drug use among certain age groups *is* on the rise. If WOD is working, as we're led to believe, then drug abuse should have gone down substantially by now. The reality is, is that it has not gone down very much. If anything, substance abuse is on the rise. I'm also going to supply a possible solution to this problem. The following text is an excerpt from an article about rock music and pot entitled "Hello Again, Mary Jane" which appears in the current issue of Time magazine (April 19, 1993, p. 59). Law-enforcement officials say pot advocates are just blowing smoke when they talk about the comeback of the weed. "Perhaps because of the change of administrations, the marijuana lobby is out in full force," says Robert Bonner, head of the Drug Enforcement Administration. "The fact is, they're losing the battle." In 1985 more than 23% of youths ages 12 to 17 said they smoked marijuana; in 1991 that figure was 13%, and Bonner says it is still falling. Bonner also offers a reminder that studies confirm such marijuana health risks as destruction of nerve cells in the brain and lung damage. The chart that follows was taken from the Wednesday, April 14, 1993 issue of USA Today ("Drug Use Up Among U.S. Eigth-graders" by Mike Snider, p. 6D). Adolescents' choices Drugs used by eighth graders in the last month: Estimated, per 100 students 1991 1992 Pct. chg. Alcohol 25.1 26.1 +4% Cigarettes 14.3 15.5 +8% Marijuana 3.2 3.7 +16% Amphetamines 2.6 3.3 +27% LSD 0.6 0.9 +50% Cocaine 0.5 0.7 +40% Crack 0.3 0.5 +67% Source: University of Michigan Institute for Social Research, 1993 report We are not winning the "war on drugs". I think you can see that one of the tactics that the DEA employs to give people the impression that the "war on drugs" is being won is to selectively quote statistics--- only statistics that support their contention that drug use has gone down. The excerpt from Time magazine that I included in this post is an excellent example of how organizations like the DEA attempt to deceive the public. Usage of *one* particular drug may have gone down but at the same time usage of other drugs may have gone *up* (a.k.a. substitution). Also, drug usage among *one* particular age group may have gone down but drug usage among another age group may have gone *up*. Therefore, if one takes a look at the big picture, taking into consideration *all* the statistics, then it's obvious that the so-called "war on drugs" is being lost. Perhaps the drug war is being won as far as illegal drugs go, but if one factors in alcohol abuse, smoking, and use of inhalants, then the magnitude of the drug problem in this country can then placed in its true perspective. For those of you who don't consider alcohol to be a drug then try drinking a fifth of whiskey sometime and then come back and tell me that it's not a drug. Agencies like the DEA only go after *illegal* drugs. This is one of the reasons why the drug war is a fruitless attempt at preventing substance abuse---people will merely switch to another drug if the one they were using becomes scarce or unpopular. The solution to the drug abuse problem in this country may be to legalize some---not all---drugs whose toxicity has been shown to be within reasonable limits (you won't drop dead after using it a few times) and then couple this with a massive drug education program. The reason why I think legalization is *part* of the solution is because people seem to be able to easily obtain drugs despite the government's efforts to the contrary---the money spent on drug interdiction could be spent more effectively elsewhere (e.g., drug education). Additionally, legalization would reduce crime because the profit motive would be taken out of drug trafficking which often goes along with other kinds of crime. Not to mention the fact that addicts would have less reason to prey on innocent people for their money and posessions in order to support their expensive habit; legalization would cause the street price of drugs to fall substantially so drugs would be much more affordable to addicts. IMHO, the way to reduce substance abuse is to do to drugs what has been done to smokers: make drug use socially unacceptable rather than try to employ heavy-handed law enforcement and punish people by incarcerating them. As you already know, people in the U.S. smoke a lot less than they used to. This reduction in the number of smokers has been brought about by public awareness campaigns, laws restricting where people can light up, warning labels on cigarette packages, taxation on tobacco in order to reduce consumption, and so on. I propose that similar methods be used to reduce substance abuse after legalization has been carried out. They are as follows: * Drugs being sold must come with clear, concise information which states the possible health hazzards involved with using this product and recommendations on how the drug should be used. Things like dosage levels and how long the drug should be used ought to accompany the packaging the drug is contained in. * All drugs should be taxed at a rate that generates a lot of revenue but not so high as to encourage people to acquire drugs through illegal channels. Part of the revenue collected from drug taxes should be used to fund drug education and law enforcement. * Make it a felony to sell drugs to minors (people under the age of 18). Anyone can sell drugs but they must not dodge paying the taxes on drugs or sell drugs with the warning information absent. Failure to pay the appropiate taxes on drugs or omitting warning information should also be a felony. * Establish a government agency whose job is to insure that the purity and safety of all drugs is as high as possible. This agency would try to prevent people from getting a hold of bad drugs---something that is a fairly serious problem now. I'm sure that many of the things I've discussed in this article have been hashed out before in this newsgroup. Nevertheless, I thought it was a good idea to give my two cents (actually a buck and a half...) all at once so you could get a good idea of where I currently stand on WOD. Go ahead and tear into my post; I'm sure there is something in it that you may wish to take a different view on or flame. :) :) :) BTW, I posted the articles from USA Today to not only help prove my assertions but also to provide information on LSD usage among youths--- something which I noticed some posters to this group were interested in. Scott Kennedy, Brewer and Patriot
I'm not sure why you don't consider it an option. No one suggests that such analysis should be left to "regulators." In fact, the "re-inventing government" movement provides just such a cost/benefit approach to the analysis of public spending. Libertarians would do well to learn more about it. Sorry, but it strikes me that it is the only "feasible" approach. What is not feasible is a wholesale attack on all government regulation and licensing that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent tasks. Actually, the only areas of public spending above that strike me as generating substantial support among libertarians are police and defense. (It is an interesting aside that as committed as libertarians claim to be to a principle of non-coercion, the only areas of public spending that they frequently support involve hiring people with guns....hmmm...) Perhaps you have. May I suggest that you consider that revolutionaries frequently generate support by acting as protectors of "geezers," mothers and children. Governments that ignore such people on the grounds that "we don't have much to fear" from them do so at their own peril. jsh
Ron Roth recommends: "Once you have your hypoglycemia CONFIRMED through the proper channels, you might consider ther following:..." [diet omitted] 1) Ron...what do YOU consider to be "proper channels"...this sounds suspiciously like a blood chemistry...glucose tolerance and the like...suddenly chemistry exists? You know perfectly well that this person can be saved needless trouble and expense with simple muscle testing and hair analysis to diagnose...no "CONFIRM" any aberrant physiology...but then again...maybe that's what you meantby "proper channels." 2) Were you able to understand Dick King's post that "90% of diseases is not thesame thing as 90% of patients" which was a reply to your inability to critically evaluate the statistic you cited from the New England Journal of Medicine. Couldyou figure out what is implied by the remark "Of course MDs are ethically bound to not knowingly dispense placebos..."? 3) Ron...have you ever thought about why you never post in misc.health.alterna- tive...and insist instead upon insinuating your untrained, non-medical, often delusional notions of health and disease into this forum? I suspect from your apparent anger toward MDs and heteropathic medicine that there may be an underlying 'father problem'...of course I can CONFIRM this by surrogate muscle testing one of my patients while they ponder my theory to see if one of their previously weak 'indicator' muscles strengthens...or do you have reservations about my unique methods of diagnosis? Oh..I forgot what you said in an earlier post.."neither am I concerned of whether or not my study designs meet your or anyone else's criteria of acceptance." John Badanes, DC, CA romdas@uclink.berkeley.edu
On March 21, 1993 Roger Maynard wrote (in reply to an article by Graham Hudson): This was <1993Mar21.223936.6192@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca>, for anybody who would like to check. He went on (in another article) to say [paraphrased] *NOW*, however, in article <1993Apr12.013939.23016@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ So, Roger, what exactly *is* playoff hockey all about? Or is it a convenient phrase to use in certain circumstances only?
I am testing IDEA block cipher implementations for correctness and needs some golden test vectors. I've looked through the postscript IDEA chapter but the single example gives me zero degrees of freedom. I'll contact the inventor if necessary but since we are NOT paying him money for use of his invention, I'd like to offload this from him. Anybody got vectors? (No disease vectors, please).
Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
------------ Part 3 of 14 ------------ M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(G.3DY.3DY.3DY.3DY.3DY.3DY.3DY.2#IJ:FIJ:F M@^3DY.3DG.OKZZNKJZOKZYSDY.2#IJ9$B-RYB(C<$!"(H#YM.LISRG-SV#HZ MRG/8<]C*<VW8.MC8V#K*RLIS.M@Z<]C*<]C8V,HZ.FW*.MAM<W-S<W,Z<\IM M;<J6<]@\RD%M<\IM"`@("`@("`@("`@```""$Q."`"MAFYN;/JZ(N;G<B*Z@ M/IN;"I\7]1>?@0H*FYN;FSX^/J"@KJZNB(C<N;FYN;:VN;FYN;FYN;FY/#Q% MW3S==]W1W3S=17?=/$5%=]UW147117?=W7?==W=W=]W=T7=WW=W==X6%W=UW M0(5`0-W==W?==X710-W=A4!WW=V%A=W==]U`2=U)=]UW=W=W=]U`W2/=A85W M0-W=A=V%W=%`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`@("`@("`@("`@(G)R<G)R<G)SDY.3DY.3D MY.3DY.3DY.2#IJ:FIJ:F@^3DY.3DG.OKJZNKJZOKZYSDY.2#IJ9$B+FYB(B( MN1`0KJ"NRLIS<T%SV,K8V,J6V#K8V,K*V-AM<]AM<\ISV'-S<W/8EFU!0<IM MRMC8.G-SELK8.MC*<\K8<]C8;7/*<\IS;98("`@("`@("`@("(*"`(03O(0` M`"L1FYL^/JZ(N;G<B*Z@/IL*@9_U]9^!"@J;FYM\/GP^/CZ@H*ZNKHB(W-RY MN;:YN;G<W-S<W-S<T471145WW45%=SQ%=W?1W='=W=UWW45%=W?=1=W=T=%% MW85W=]W1T=V%W7?==X5`A7=WW=V%A=V%=]V%T4#=0'?==W=WW7=WW7=WA=W= M=TEWT85WW7>%0$!`W=V%W7?=W=W=T=U`A=UW=]'=0-'==]'11=V%T7?1T7?1 MT7>%=]&%T471T47=17?=W=UW=T5W=W?1=W=%=SS=T=%WW=%%W7?==SQ%=SQ% M17=%W7<\/-W=/-W=/-T\W3S=W3S=T=T\W7<\T471=SS=/$5%/'=%17=%T=U% M/-UWW=T\/#Q%T7<\W47=W=UWW=W=1=W=W=W=17?11=U%1=W=1=W=W=W1T=%% MW=%%W45WT471T7?==]'=A46%1=UW1='1T=UWW471=T5WW=W=1=U%=]W=T=%% MW7?=/-W=W=$\/#P\1=$\/#P\W44\/-%%W3Q%T=&61=%%/)9S13P\ED5SED4\ M<W-S<T78;3S8;44\<Y9M<\H\<]C8V'-SV#S8RG-ID6G'D9&_+\?'+\=IQSK' M.CHZQX8ZD3J&ACK*RH;*.B]!.CHZ.LJ1.MC*RCHZD2_8D<K8RLHORI$Z.CI! MRCHZV-@Z+SK*0<K*.LK*.B\ZRI$Z.I'*D6F1RFDO:89!+R\O.I%I:2^&Q\=I MD<>1D9&1QY%IQ\?'+,<LQ\?'+,<LQS4UORPL+#5]OWUT+'0U'C4L+,+"75U= M7<)]+'TLPAY=PGT>?72Z?5U=PKK"PEVRNK*RNKH:PKJZNB:RLAJRNKJZNK)= M&B8:7;JZ71HF)AJZ7;)=LEU=7;I=NEU=LB:Z75U])EW"75U]7;I=NK*ZNKI] MNGTL+'UT77U]'BPL'BQ]770L?7TL?1XU+"P>Q\<LO\>_-2PL:2S'-8;'QS7' MD<=ID6G'+\<O:3K'QY$Z:9$O.B^&:2\Z.CIID9$Z.I&1+Y&1.LK*RLHO.LHO MRCHZV#IM.CK*;<K8.G-SRMC*RMAM<SK8.G/8;=AS<\K*V`@("`@("`@("`@( MG)R<G)R<G)R<Y.3DY.3DY.3DY.3DY.2#IJ:FIJ:F@^3DY.3DG)SKJZNKJZOK MZYSDY*&#IJ9$B+G<KJZ(B(@0B*ZNKLIS<\K*V,K8RG,Z;<K*RG-SV,K8V,IS MV#K8EFW*V,ISRCI!<]C*<\ISRCISV'-SV'/*.D%MV&W8V&W*ELK8R@@("`@( M"`@("`@K`+R\@A.\@H(`*Q$1FYL^H*[<N;F(KJ`^/IL*@1?U%Y\*"IN;FWP^ M?#X^/CX^H*"@KJZNB-S<N;:YN=R(B(B(B(B(W=T\/$7=/$7=13S1=]U%T7?= MW=W=17=%W7=%T='=W7=%=]W1=W?=W7?=W45WT45WW7?1=W?=W=U`W7=W=]UW MA=W=W='=T='==X7=W=W=T=W==X7=A4"%0'?=W7>%=W?==]V%W4#1=X5WT85` MW871=]%WW=V%W=W1T7=%T=W==]U%=]W=W7?1=W=WW=%%1='=17?1T45%144\ M=W?1=T4\1=U%W3S=/#S=1='=T=%%W='1T='=W7<\W7?==]'=T='=T47=T=UW M13QWW7=%W7?1W=UWW7?1145W145%=]W117?1=W?==]W1A=W=1=U%A87=T7=W M=X6%W7?=T=U`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`@("`@("`@(ZYR<G)R<G)SDY.3DY.3DY.3DY.3DY.2#@Z:FIJ:F M@^3DY.3DY)SKJZNKJZOKZYSDY.2FIF5$B+G<KJ"NKJZ($(BNKJZ(;99S<VT\ M<W-SV-A!ELK*V&W*V'-MV-ASV,ISRI;8<T'8RLISRLISV$$ZV&W8RLK*V#HZ M<SK8<VUMV,J6"`@("`@("`@("```@A,3O!,````1$1$1FSX^KHBYN=R(KJ`^ MFYL*GQ?U%Y\*"IN;?'P^/CX^/CX^/CZ@H*ZNB(C<N;:YW(BNKJZNKJZN1=U% M1=W=/-'=1='=W='=W=U%W45WW=%WT7?==]UW=]U%=W=W=]UWW=UWT=W1T=W1 MT=W==W=WW7=W0-W==]UW=]UWA=W=T=W=W7?=A='=W7?10(7=0-'==W?=A87= MA='=W7?=A7=WW=W1W47==]'1A7?==X6%W=UWT=UWW7?=17=W=]W=T=U%T=U% MT45WT='=/$5%W=UWW7?1/-W1=T5WW=UWW='=W='=W4711=W=T=%W=]W==]%% MT47==]'=147=W=%%W7=WT871W471T=&%W=V%W7=WT=UW=]V%W7=`T=V%A=UW M=]V%=W=WW=W=A=UWA4F%0-U`=]V%W7=WA=UW=T!W0(5`=]W==]W==TEWW7=W MW87=W4!`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`P MQ[]I+Y&1QVF1QX:1+\<ZQVEI.FDZ.LHZ.CK*RI$Z+SK*RLJ1D3HZ+R_*+Y'* M.CK*;6W8V,I!.FW*RD%SRG/*V`@("`@("`@("`@(Z^OKG)R<G)SDY.3DY.3D MY.3DY.3DY.3D@Z:FIJ:F@^3DY.3DY)SKJZNKJ^OKG.3DY(.FID3HW+G<KJ"@ MH*"NN8B(KHBU<\K*RFUSECS8V,IS/,K*<W.6V$%S<\J6RG/*/,ISV,ISRG.6 MV'/*V#ISV,IS.FW*<VW8.MC8EMAS<P@("`@("`@("`@(80``O!,3$X(`*Q$1 M$1$11#Z@KMRYN8BNKCX^FU:!@1?U%Y^!5IN;?#X^H#X^/CX^/CZ@H*"NB(C< MN;:YW*ZNKJZNKJZN/#Q%/#S=W=W=/-W=145%13S=W7?1W3Q%=]W==W=%T45W MW=%W1471T45W=]'1=T6%=T7=T=U%T='=T=&%T7=WW=%W0'?=W=&%A7?1/S\_ MFJ[=(]UW17>%A46%=W>%W7?=A7?=W=W=W7?=W7?==X5WW87=W=%WW='=W7?1 MT=U%W47==]'=W45%W45WW45%W=W1W=%WW7<\W=W117=%/-W=T='=147=T45W M=T5WW7=W17?==]%WT=&%T471=X5W=X71T='1W7?=T4"%T=UW=X5`T=W=0-UW MW7=WW4!WW7=W=X7=W7=WW=UWA4!WA=V%=TE)=]V%A4F%=X5WW87=A4!)0'=) M0$E`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`FYND#!\5I1@]5$UD<>_Q\?':<<OQ\<OD89I:2\Z:3I!.H:1 M+\HZ+R\Z0<HZRLK8.LJ1RCHORMB1V#K8;=C8.LH("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( MZ^OKG)R<G)SDY.3DY.3DY.2<G)R<Y.3D@Z:FIJ:#@^3DH>2AH:$-#:OKG*&A MX8.#94A*2DK3YKF(KCX^/CZ@$!"(B(@0/&W*EMAM<VUMRLH\RFW*V#QM;<K8 MV-AS;<IS<VUS0<K8EFW*;<K*<W/8<\ISV,K*RFW8;6USRCIS"`@("`@("`@( M"`@(80""$[P3$P!A$1&0D)!$2DI*TRXNT]-*2DA(<*&AH0T-#2>A@YN;?#Z@ MH*"@/CX^/CZ@H*ZNKHC<N;:YB*ZNH*"NKJZN/)8\W='=/-W11='1T=W=W='1 M/-%W1='==]U%=SS1=]W1=W=%1=%%=W=WW=W=T=%WW='=1=W==W=%=W?1T=V% MA=W==T5WW2C-!`0_/S]YI(B(W+FYN=U%=W?=T7?1=W=W1='=W45WA7?1=W?1 MW=UWW7=%T7?=T=%WW7?1T7=%1=T\W3QWW=U%T=%%W47==W=W=]W==]%%T45W MT45WT=UWW=W1T7?==W?1T7?=T='=W=V%W7?==]&%W=%`W=W=W=UWA4#1=]V% MW=UWA7=WA=U`W7?==T!`=]U)0$F%W=U)A4E)285`0-UW=T!`A4E`24GC27=` MA2-)24!W27?CA4EWA7=)0$E`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`FYN$3!\5E9@]5%@S#=65C7':<>1 MD9%IQ\<OQ\<ZD<=IACHOD6DOQSHZ.CHZ.H8Z:<K*RI&1.CJ103K*D0@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(Z^OKZ^OKG)SDY.3D$8.#@Z&AY)R<Y.3DH:&A@X.# M@X.#H>2AH:$-#0VKZYRAH8.#941(2$K3YN;3H#X^FSX^B!`0B+40;<IS;6UM M<Y9SEG/*RG/*RLJ609;*ELHZ;6US<\K8.FTZRMB6V,ISRFUSRG/*<]C*<W/* M;=C8"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(80""$X*\A!&0D)!N2DI*2M/3TR[3TTI$1'!P MX:&AH2<-#0VAH>%P&$A(2$B^ODA(OKZ^2DK3T^;F+N"YB*ZNH*"NKJZN/$4\ MW9:6/#Q%/$5%/$7=T=U%T=T\/#P\/$7=W=U%T45%T7<\T7=%=]W==]W1W=W= MT=W==W?==]W=185WT=W==T4<'#DH*"C-!`0_/WEYB-S<N;FVMK:YW*ZDW7?= MT7?117=%=T7==T5%=T5WT=UWT='1T47117=W1=U%1=W==T7=W7=WT7?=T45% MW=W==W=W13QWW7?=1=W==]W=T7?=T7?=T7?1W7=W1=V%W7?=W=UWA4#=T4#1 M=W?==T!W=]UW=W?=W87==W=W24"%=TF%=T!)27=)0$E`A4EWA4!W=TGC0$E` M24GCXT!`A4E`24!W0'=W=X5`X^-)0$EW=^-)A>-)X^-`2>-)A85`XT!)XW=) MA7=WA85)=TEW0.-W24E)0$E)0$F%A85WW=UW285)=X6%0-U`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`F[9$3!< M5I1@]5',-U965E967%Q<D<>1Q\=IO\>_Q\?':2]IQSK':3HO.FF1QR^1.H9I MD2\ORCH("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(")P-#0V<Z^OKZYR<H:&# M@X.AH>2<G)SDY*&AY.2AH:&AH>3DG`T-#0VKJZL-#:&A@W!(2M/3YN;32CZ; MFSX^KH@0M;40V&T\RLIMRLJ6V,IS<]C8<SS8<\ISRLIS<\IS<W/*;7-M<VTZ M.FTZ<W/8V&UM.FW*RFT("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(80""$X*"`&%N;FX[ MT]/3YN8N+N;3T]-*2DA(<(.AH:$GW@VK#:'A<$A$2+X[.SL[.SL[YBXNX.`N M+N;3TTI*2DI*2DI%13P\T=&61=W1<T66/-'=/-U%1=T\W=$\1=W=W3Q%/$5% M17=W/-'=W45%T=UW=]UW1=U%=W?==]'11=U%*"@H.1P<.2@H*,T$!#\_8GEY MW-PBN;:VMK:YB*ZS?)M6-Q?=W7?1W7=W1471W=UW=T5%/'?117=%W3S=T=W1 MW45W17=%W45%/'?=T='=145W=W?11=W1W45%=W=%T=%W1471T=%W=W=W=X5W MA87=W7=WW7?=W=W=A85WW7?=A4EW=TF%24!)0-U)0'=)=W=`285W=TGC27=) MA4E)0'=)0$GCA85`XTE)XX6%X^/C285)2>/CX^/CA4E`24F%A4GC0$DCXTE` MX^-)24!)0$E)XX5)A4GC24E`XW?CA85`XTE`=TE)XTGC24GCXW=W=W>%=TE) M=W>%0'=)W4!)W7>%W=U`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@(#0WKZ^NKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZZNKJZNKJPWUO%(HH8$W-X0YZPWU]?4<JPT7 M#:&AH65$2DK3V]O32D1$FSX^/JX0$+40<Y;*V'-SV'-SEG-SV,K80<K8RFUS M;=AMV&W8RG/8;7/8.CHZ.LK*V'-M.LK8;0@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@(80"$$P``86&0;M,[T]/3T^;3T^8N+B[3P=,^I"5&Y.&?S!=VJR?6?+/. M1#ZNK+X[.SLAYBXNX.`N+N;FT]/3T]/3/#P\ECP\T7,\T=%%/-%%/$5%/-U% M13S1W=T\T='=T='1W='=W3Q%147=W=W=T='==SQ%=SQ%T=UW=R@H*"@H*"@Y M'!PY.2@HS00$!#\_>7D%W"*YN;:VMKG<B*1\FU:?%_7U%V"?-]W=W=W=W7?1 MT3S=W47==]U%T7=%T=W==]UWW7?=1=U%W=U%=]%%1=W=17=%W7=%=W?=W471 MW7=WT45W1=W==W?=0'?==W?1W7=W=X7=0$#=0$F%W4#=A4"%=W=WA85W0$F% M0$F%0$!)=^-)24F%A4!)0$"%X^/CXT#C2>-`X]=)X^.%2>-)XTE)2>/CX^-) MX^/CXTGCX^-`X]=`2>-)24E)24E`XTE)0'M`2>/C0.-)XTGCXX7C24GCA4GC M2>/C24F%=W=`0$GCA4E`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`P,'Q\ M7%Q65E965E965L>&-;^1Q\>_D37'-;_':6D("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`CKZ^N<G.2AH:&AH:&AH0$!`0%VJPWU$W8H MG"?,8'8YZPWU]?6KZ]Y@-Y3A5C!E2$K3V]O3TTI*93X^/J`0$!`0;<IS<VW8 M<]AMV-C8V)9!RG/*RLK*RG/8V#ISRLK8RCIS.G,ZRLK8.LK8"`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(*P"\O```8<,[(2$AT]/3T]/3T]3/U-2`P4H^ M:B5&Y.&?8/5VZ^'6?+/.1#NDK*"D\3L[T]/3T^8N+N#@X.#@X$5%/$4\/#R6 M/#S1<]$\T3S1W7/1W44\/-'=EI;=/-'1/#P\/#Q%T3S=T=W1/-W1W3S=/$71 M1=W-S<W-*"@H*"@H*#D<'!PY*"C-!`0$!#]B>7D%(KFYN;:VN;G<K*1\5I_U M]1=@GS<W-PH*"@H\T3Q%W3P\1='=T7?11=U%17<\W=W=13S=/#Q%=]W==T71 MW=T\W7?1W47==]W=1='=W='=W85WW871=W=`A87=W85W=W>%A4!`W7=W=X5` MW4!)0$!)27=W=TEWA7=)XT!)XTGC(T!)=X5)XTGC0$E)A>-`2>-)X^/C0$#C M24!)0$#CXT!`X^-[X^-)24GCX^/CXWM[X^-)XTE)>WOC2>-)XT#CXT#C0$E) MX^/CXTE)A4#CX^-)0(5)X^.%24#C0$"%=X6%=X4C0$E)=TEW285W27>%A4"% M24EW0-U)0-U`A=%W=]'=W7?1=W=WW7=W=T7=W=%W=]UW=T7=T=W=/-V6W=T\ MT44\/#Q%1=%%1466144F&K+"NB:ZNB8FNKHFLK)])G2ZNK*Z='VZPG2Z++HL M77VZ72PL771=+'0L+%TLOWTUO[^_OWTLO\<U-<<L-34LQRS'QVDUQ\>&O[^& M:<?'Q[\O+\<OQVF1:9$ZD<<ZACK':88Z:6DO:2^1+X8Z.FDZRI$Z:3J1ALHO MRFDZ.CJ1RB\ZRH8Z+Y'*RLHZ03HZ.B\Z.FG*D3HZD8:103HZ.B]ID89I+Y$Z M+SK*D6F1:9$Z02]I.CJ&.B\OACK'.H9I:<>1D9$OAL?'D6F1Q[\UQ\=IQVG' M:2S'-34UQRPLQ[]IO\<U+#6_O[_'OS7'?34LOS4U+#5T'G0L-35]+"PU+'1= M?71T?7U]+%TL?7U=71$1$9!N;@+4U-34U-34U-34U-34U-1KU-0";I`1,U;, M4?51S%96?#`PL[,P,#`P?%Q65E965E967%Q65E96:<<UQ\?'"`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("(.#@X.#@X-U M=75U=2M9E5)VJPWU$W8YZ]X74;P<JPWU45&K#2<W5E;A7+.S965$2M/;VXW3 M2DI*FSZ($!`0RFUMRD$ZRD'*V,K*RCIM;<IM<\IS.LHZ<VW8V'/*RCHZ;6W* MV`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(*P"\@@!A8=,[(2$A M(>;F5U?4U,_/S]2`34H^:F%&Y">?8/4<ZZ&.7#!C9;ZD9*"D\:R^2DK3T^;F M+BXNX.#@;3Q%V$4\EG,\/#Q%/'-SEG,\/$5%<SR6/'/1/$71W3Q%W=U%13Q% M1=T\W=W=W=W113P\'#DY*"@H*"@H*"@H*"@H.3D<'#DH*,T$!`0$/S]B>7D% M(KFYN;:VMKG<I+-\5A?U8)\W"@H*"E965@I65IM\I#S1W3S=T=T\W3P\W=W= MW=%%W3P\=T4\=SS=/-W=/$71=SS=T=W=T=W=1=UWW7=WT7?=W86%W=V%0'=W MW4#=0(5W=T"%0"-WW85W24E)W7=W0$E`24!`A7=`24!)24!`A4F%XX7CXT#C M24E)XX5)285`XTGCX^/C2>-[0.-`XTGCXWM)XTGCX^-[XXI)X^-)24GCXWOC MXTGCXTE)XXI)XTE[XTE)X^/CXT!`0.-[24E)XTE)X^/CXX7CXX5`2>/C=^-) M=W=W0'=`24!)=TE)=T!W=]UWW87=A4!W=W>%=W=`=X7=A=W1T7=%T7=WW7=W M14711=W=T471T3S=W=U%/-W=/$7=13P\W9;=W=&RNB8:LK*ZLAJZ<B;"7;I= MPEVRNKJRNEUT772RPK)]=%U]?;K"77U]NBQ]NETL=%TL'G0U?5U=?34U?7V_ MOWTL-2PLQRPLO[\LQS4UQS4L-6EI-6F_Q\?'D6G':<>_QX:1QR_'Q\>1.FEI MQ\=I:3HZQSJ&D9&1:6EI.CHZ:<HZ.LII.LHZ:<J&.B^&.LK*RLHZD3HZ.H;* M.CK*+T'*.B^1+R\O+\HZD4&&D9'*.I'*0<HORI'*D3HZ:9$Z:3HO06DZAFF1 M:9$OQY&&:9&1Q\?':<?'AL>_D;]IQVF_Q[]IAL=I-2S'+"QI+#7'Q\?'-2P> M-7V_QS7'+"PL++\U-2P>?70L+'T>-1X("`@(*RMA$9!+2W_4U-34U-34U-34 MU"`@U-34U-0";B4S,\Q1]5%@E%9\,+.:FIJ:LS`P,'Q<5E965E9<7'Q<7%Q< M?#`P86$("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`A!=75U=75U=75U=2N5E943JZOU$W8<JPT741,<JPWU45&KG)]6 M5ES6?)ID,%R#@V5*2HWF2DI*93ZN$!`0V&W*<\HZRCK*0<K8V,K*03K*;<HZ M.B_80<HO+SHZ.M@Z"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@(80"\@F%P2$H[.R&`":*B%!3(U,_/@-0V34B;?&&7Y"<74?4<ZZ&!7#!C M98Y\FJ"DK/$^2DI*T^;F+N#@+I9S;99SEG/8;45S/-@\<SR6/#R6<T5%145% M/$71147=<SR6ECP\W3QSEMW1<SS=W1P<'!P<'!PY*"@H*"@H*"@Y.3DY.1P< M'#DHS00$!`0$/S]B>7D%(KFYMK:VMKG<KK.;-_5@-U965E965E965E965GRS MI-W1EMT\T=U%W=T\13P\W47=/#P\W=W1W3S=W3S1147==]%WW='=17?=17=% MW47=W=&%A7?=A7=`T=W=W=W=A4EW=W>%W87=0$"%=TF%=TF%=TF%=T#CA85) M24E)24#C2>-)2>-)XTE)XX5)XT!)X^/C>TGC24GCX^/CXT#7X^-)X^/CBN-) MX^-)XTGCX^-)X^-)BN/CX^-)XTE)XWM)>XI)>WM)2>/CXTGCX^-`0$E`X^-` M2>/C0..%XT!`XTGCXX6%XTE)=TE)XT"%XT!`=T!)24EW=X5W=]U)24F%W7=` MA85WW=UW=]'=W87=W='=17?=W=W1T3S1W3Q%=SQWW3P\1=W=/$5%T47=/-T: M&G(:NAJZ&KIR)B9RNKHF)AJZNKH:NB:Z&B8FNAI=LB8FNK*ZNEVZ=+HFNL)= MNGU='GVZ="RZ+'U=?5U=+%TU?2PU-2R_+'V_?;\LQWU]QS4LQ\>_-;\LQVG' MQ\=IO[_':<>_Q[]I:;]I:<=IQR]I+\<OAI%IQSHZ:6DZ:3HZ:3J1:<HZ0<HZ MD3HZ09'*RCJ1.H8ZRLK*D2^1RLJ1+R_*D<K*.M@Z+SK*.LK8V)'8.CK*.CJ1 MD<J1RD$OD<HZRD$Z.CHZD9$Z.I$Z.CHZ:6DZQY$Z.I$Z+Y%I+\?'D<>&:<?' MAL>&D;_'AFDU+&G'OVG'Q[_'+#7'QQZ_?<?'-37'QRS'"`@("`@("`@(,S,1 M$9!N;M34U-34U-34U-34U'_4U"#4U"!ND!$S4E'U46`W5EPPLYJ:FIJ:FIJS MLS`P7%965EQ\,#`P?#`P,#"S86&02TM_"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(",HZAI&1RG5U=76IJ9Z>G@%24G:\JZOU$W8< MJPWU]1,<JPWU45&KG.%65GS6LYJLL[/KY(.#941*C2XNC=-*$!`0RCHZV,K8 M+R_*.B\ZV"_*+SK8+R\O.LHO+Y%!RLH("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(80"\`(-PJJJJJJJJ:\#`P,#/U-34S]0V34B; M?-`YG"<74?4<ZZ&.5C!C@XY\FJ`^K*2@@V5*2M/3YBYSV,H\V,H\<]AS/)9S M198\199%V'-%<SS113P\/-'1/$4\17-%/-W1/$7=<T4("#DY.3DY.1P<'#DY M.2@H*"@H*"@H.3DY'!P<'#DH*,W-!`0$/S]B>7D%(KFYMK:VMKG<I+-6%_6? M5E965E965E965E96FWRSI$5SW='113S=W=$\/#S1T9;=W=W=13S=W7?=T=W= M17=W13Q%W=UW145%W45%=]U%17=W=X7=W=UWW7?1W85`0-W=0'?==TEWW85W M=TE)W85`0'=)286%=^-)A>-WXX7CA86%A87CX^/CXTGC(T!`>^/CX^-)X^-[ MXTE)X^.*27OC24GC>WN*27OCXXJ*XWOCXWM)BDE[BHI)BHKC>^/C27OCX^-) M27OCXTE[X^/C2>-`0.-)XT#CA4GC0./CX^-)2>/C0(5)0(5W=W=W0'=WA7>% M0$!W0-UWW4#=2=UW=]U)W87=A=UWT=W==X7=A7?=A87=T47=1=W==W?113QW MW3S=1=$\/-%WW44\W=T:)B9R&B8:NKIR)G(:)KH:NKJZNKHFNAJZ&K*Z)K(F M&KHF&B8:)AH:NL)=NK*Z?;*ZNGW")GVZ)G1]77UT7;ITNBPL75U]7;HL77TL M?7U]-34U'C5]Q[\LO\>_+,?'+#7':<=IQ[\UQVDU-<=IQVDUQVF&AL>1:<<O MD2_'Q\?'.FDO.FDZ.I$Z:3HZ.LHOALJ1D9&1RH8O.I&1D<HZRI'8+]C8V#J1 MV#HZV,K*.I'8.B\ZV#HZV#K*RB_*+]@O.LJ1V)$ZRLHZRLK*02^&D3J1:6DZ M:4$OAH9I.FG'+\>1Q\=I:6EIQR\OQ\>1QX8UQS4UQ\?'Q\>_Q\<LQ\<UQP@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@(,S,1$9#9;@+4U-34U-34U-34`@("`M34U`)N)3,S=O51 M8#=65EPPFIID9&1D9)J:FK,P,%Q<7'PP,#`P,#`P,+.:89!+2\M_"`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`C'D8:&+R_'D89I.B_'4E)2 M4E(!`0%V=KQVJZOU$[P<JPWU]1,<JPWU45&KG(%6?+.^I/$BFK/KJYRA@Z9$ M1-,AC2[;TQ`0V$&1RCHZ+Y'8.CK*.D$ZAH:1.B^&D9$Z.@@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(80`<'%(Y[N[N1NY& MV:EU=774U-34S]0VY4B;F]`YG-X74?4<JZ&!5E9C@XY\LSZ@K*Z@ZYRA@X-E M/-C*V-AS<Y;*V,ISV&US<]AM<W-%198\<T5%/&T\/'-M;3Q%145%<Y8\/$4( M"`@("#DH*"@Y.3DY.3DY.2@H*"@H*"@H.3DY'!P<'#DH*"C-!`0$/S]B>7EY MW+FYMK:VMKG<KGQ6%Q<*5E:;FYM65E965E96FWRSI-'1T3P\T='=ECR6T=&6 M/#P\T=T\/-$\/#S=1471T44\T7<\/$5%W471W47=W7?=17?==]U%=X5WW7?1 M=W?=W=W=A7=WW7=)=T#==W=`=TE`27=`A7=)2>/C=TE)24E`A4!W=^-)=T#C M0$E)X^-)2>/C2>/C24GCX^-)XTGCX^/CXXKCX^-)XXI[28KC24E)XXI)>WOC MX^/C27OCXTE[XWOCX^/C>TE`X^/CXT#CX^-)2==`2>.%24GCA>-`285W2>/C MA>-`24F%0.-W=^-`27=`0$!)A7=`=TG=24#=0'?==X7==]%`=]W==T`C=]&% M1='1T7?1W47==]W1=W?1145W1='=W=W1=]T\W44:)G)R)B9RNG(:NAIR<KHF M)G*Z)KIR<KH:&B8:NG*R&K)RNB8F&AJZNK(:NL+"<KJZ&EU=LB8:NL)T)KJR MNG2ZNKI]=%U]7;I=71X>'GW"'AX>NBQ=-7TU770L+"P>?7W''GTUQ\?'-37' MO[_'Q\<U:6DUQVG':89ID<<OQY%I:9&1:3K'AL?'D<>&.CHORI&1.CHZ.I&1 M+Y$O+Y'*V)$ZRLK*D4'*RD'*V#K*+Y'*.MAM+\K*V-C*+T$ZV,K*RMC*.CK* M+\HZ02\O.CHZD2\Z.I$ZD<J1.B_*AB^1+VF1:3HZ.CHZ:<?'D<=I:2^1OVG' M:<>_-37':8;'QP@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(,S,1$1'9;@+4U-34U-34U&O4 M?TM+?VO4U&YN)3-2$U%@S)165GPPFIJLK*RLK&2:FIJS,#`P,#`PL[.:FIJ: MFIJ:D$M+RW\@"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("+]IQ\?' MQ\?'AFF1+R_'Q\>&.B\!`7AXGH2\$Q-VJPWU$W8<ZPWU]1,<JPWU45&KG(%6 M,)N^KB*YFJ2<Z^NA@X-E1$K32M.-C=.-D<J1D6DO.B\ZD9&1AFDZ.L>1:2]I M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@Z M:2]I80?N[I4<65GN1NY&V9Z>GIX)U-34"<ANY7";FRLYZ]X7%_5VJR>!5E9C M@XY\FCZ@K*P^H9SKZ]@Z<VV6V,ISV,K*RMASV'-M/#QS/#P\ECR613S8/'-S M/)9M;3R6/$5S/`@("`@("`@("#DH*"@H.3DY.3DY.2@H*,TH*"@H*#DY'!P< M'#DH*"C-!`0$!#\_8GEYW+FYMK:VMKG<FGQ6]1=65ER;FWR;FYM65E96FWRS MI#P\198\/-'1T=W1ECQ%/-T\W=V6T=&6T9;1/$5%/#Q%145W/#S1W3S=1='= MW=$\T47==]W=W=W1A7?=W84CW4!WA=V%T4EW0$#=W=W=24!W=TE)=T!)XW=W MA4GC0'=)A4GCX^-WA4E`XTGCX^/CU^-)X^/CX^/C0$GC0$!`0'M)X^/CXTE[ MX]=)XWOCX^/C2>-)28KCXTGCX^/C>^/CX^-)XTE)XTE)0.-)>^-)X^/C0$E) MXT#C0$F%A85`2>.%XTGC0$#C0$F%=TEW=W=)27=)=TEW0(5W24!W27>%=TEW M=W=WW7?=W=V%A7=WW7?=W=UW=]'1A=W1W45W17=W=W=%W=W=1=%W=]W1=]T: MNKHF)AIR<AHFNG)R<B8:)KH:)G)R<G*R&K*RNG)R<AIR<AHF)AIR)B8:<B9R M)G(FNG*Z<AJZ&KIRLAH:NB9=)KI=7;*Z)K*Z7;JZ77TF=+I]NKIT72Q=71XL M=%W"PBPL77U]+'TL+#5]?<<L?2PUO\<LQ\?'Q\?'QVEI:6G'QY&&:8:&QY&_ M+X9I:3II.I$OQR^&+X9ID2\Z.CK*.CHZ03HZ.B\O.CHZ+SHOV,HZRCHZRFUM MV#K8;=C8.MC*.LHZRM@ZRCK8.MC8V-A!+SK*.M@ZRMC*RCJ1D3J1D3HZRFDZ M.LJ1.CHZ.B_'.B^1.L?':9&1:6F_QX;'-36_Q\<UQP@("`@("`@("`@(,S,S M$1%N;@+4U-34U-34U"`";FYN`M34U$M+$3."J^OK-U965EPPFIJ:9&2LK*RL MFIJ:LS`P,#"SFIJ:FIJ:FIIDPTO+?W\@"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@LQ\?'+,?'OX9I:6G'QX:_D;_'QR_'D2_'.JEU=783O+QVJPWU$W8< MZPWU]1,<JPWU45&KG(%6,'P[B!VYK*#KZYRA@X-E.H8Z.I%I+SK'D6DZQVEI MQY&1QVG'D6EID9$("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`C'QR^&D9&1+\<OD6G'ACJ1QY$<4E(!`0$)U-34:W]NY7". M)"LYZPWU]?4<JR>!5E9C@XY\FCZ@\8@^H:&<.LK8.M@ZV'/8RM@Z<]C*V#QS MV-C*V#S8<VW*V);*/-@\<]C813QM/`@("`@("`@("`@("#DY*"@Y.3DY.3DY M.2@HS00$!,TH*"@Y.1P<'#DY*"@HS00$!#\_ODK3(2&YN;:VMKG<FGQ6]6!6 M5IN;?'Q\?'R;5E:;?'RSLW.61=%%/$5S<]%S13P\/#Q%13Q%T='=/-W=W=T\ M1=T\1=W1/-U%/-T\T3P\W7=%W=W=W='=1=%W=W>%T='==W>%A7=WT4!WT7<C MW=UWW7=)A4F%27=)24DCA7=WA4E)24!)=^-`=X7CXTE)XW?C2>/CX^-W24G7 M24GC2>/C0(5)2>-)XX5[>TE)2>-)XTGC24#C2>-)XTGCXTGCX^/C2==`X^-) MXTGCXR-)24#C285`2>/CA4E`0./CXTE)0(7C0(5)0$E`0$F%27=W24EW0$EW M24#=24!W=W=)W4G==W=`=T#==W?=286%=X5`T7?=W87=W7?==W?==W=%A7>% MT7?==T5WT=W1W7?=W7>RNKJZ)KH:)B8F&AJR&AHF&B9R&G)R)G)R<AH:&AJZ MLKH:)G(:)B8F&B8F&B9R<B8:<G)R<B8:&B:Z&B8:LG(:<B8:NAJZNL+"PAJZ M)KJZ)KJZ)EW")B9])EU]?72R?70>=,(>?2PL?<)T+%T>+"PL='TL-;^_'BQ] MO\<LQ[]I+#7'+,?'-;^1D6G'Q\>&Q\?'.I$OD9$ZQR\Z+SJ1:<I!D6DORH8Z M+\HO.B^1RLHZV"_8.MC8RCK8V-AMRLK8RLK8RLIS.MASRCHZV-AM+SK8RMC* M+]C*.LK*+]@O.CHZ.I&1AI%I+Y$ORLII.B^1+SJ1QY&&D9$ZD<=I:;^_Q\<( M"`@("`@("`@("`@(,S,1$9!N;@+4U-34U-34U-1_2TMN`M34Z$1-38.AY.NK MZ^ODH:$P,)J:K*RLK*RLK)J:FK.SL[.SFIJ:FIID9*RL2TM_?R#4"`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("#4U+"PU+&G'QS7'+,?'-<?'OVEI:<<UD<>&:6G' MD<>1=1-V=G9VJZOU$W8YZPWU]1,<JPWU45&KG(%6,#X[B&BV\:`Z:<=ID6DZ MAFEI:<<Z:3J1Q\=ID<=IQX:1+\?'OP@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("&F1QVF1O\=IO\=I:6G'QY''D;_'+\>& M:6EIQX:`((#4:P*JY>&."@$<JPWU]?4<ZZ&!5EQC@XY\FCZN\8@^9=C8V$$Z MV#HZ;<K*RLHZ03IM;3IM<Y9S<W-S/'/*/-C8RLK8<W/*/#S8/&T\V#P("`@( M"`@("!PY.3DY.3D<'#DY.2C-!`0$!`3-*"@H.1P<'#DY*"@HS8-P2+Z^.],A MX`P,#"$A(;F(FGQ6]6"45E:;?'RSLWQ\FYN;?'Q\LW,\/&USEI8\EG,\ECQS M<]$\/-$\13QSED5S/$5%13Q%1=%%W47=144\T3S=W45%/-'=1='=W=W117=% M1=W=17?==T5%W=W1=]TCW7>%A=W=W7?=A85`=X5W0(5)=X5W=TG==W=W=T!W M=T!W=X4C24E)A4#C=W>%=W?C24E)27=)A4GC24"%24GCA4F%287C(TE`24F% M24E)285)24GC24#CXTF%(X6%A>/C27>%XTGC=T!`XTEW0(5`0-=)=W=)XW=` MA4E)=X5)24EW=T!)=X5WA4"%W4E)W=U)0$!WA7=`=]W==R-WW87=A7=W=X7= M=]V%=]V%=]%`W=W=T='1=W=W1=W1W7=W=]%WW7<FNETF75TF7;H:PAHFLB8F M<AJR<AJR<G)R<AHF)B9R&AH:<K(F&G(F<G(F<K(:&K(F&K(:<G*R&G)R<G(: M)G(F&K(:NG)R<B8F)AH:<KIRNAJZNAH:&K(:NKJR)ETFNB:ZNK)]NB:Z?<*Z M77TLPEU]PG1]+"PU+"PU?2Q]QRPU+#7'-2PL:34LQ\<U-;]IOVEID6G'D2]I MAH8O.L<O.FG'D2\O+R]IRB_*+SK*+R]!RMC*.CHZ+\HZV,HZ.B_*RM@O.CIM MRCHZV,HZRLIM<]ASV,K8.M@ZV,K8.FW*D3HZ.B\O.CJ1.LHZRI&1+Y$Z+Y&& MD3J1+R^&D9%I"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(,S,1$9!N;@("U&O4U-34U-0" M2\'!P>A?C4K!P::FIH.AG.NKZ^ODY.2F942LK*SQK)J:FIJ:FIJ:FIJ:FF2L MK*RL2\M_(-0@"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`B_+#4>QRPLORPLQRPL+"S'+,=I MORS'-34UQ\?'-<=IQ\=IQ[_'Q[QV=G9VJPWU$W8YZPWU]1,<JPWU]?6K#8%6 M,#X[W&BV(J[':<?':<?'Q\?'QX:1OVF_D;^_-6G'QY%I"`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(-2S'-6G'AL=IOS7' M+#7'OS6_QS4U:6G'QY%I-<>1D2^`((#4-FZJY>&!"E(<JPWU41<<ZZ&.5EQC M9;Y\FCZN\:Z;.I'*RCHZD2\Z.CHZV#K*V#K*.CHZ.CI!;7/80=C*;7-SV'/8 MRCQS<Y:6<SS8;<K*/#S*V`@("!P<'#DY.1P<'#DY*"@$!#\_/S\$S2@H.1P< M'`T-H>'AX65P2+X[(2'@\@PA(3L[ODAPX>$-#6"45E9<?+.:FK.S?)M\?'Q\ M?)9M/#P\/&T\/#P\16T\<T66/&T\17,\<SS1<Y8\<W-S13QS1=$\/-'113R6 M13P\145%T='=13Q%1='=T=W1T=W==W=WW3Q%=]UWT=UWW7=%T=V%A=UWW7=` MW=V%=T#==]UW=W=)0(7=2=U)27=W24F%(T!WA4EW27=W=W=W0$"%=W=`24E) M24#C0'>%24E)24!)=^.%0$"%=W=)XX4C285W285`0$E`=TEW=^-)X^-)XW=W M24#C0$E`=^-`=W=WA85)27=`24E`24E`27=W2=UWA4EWA4#=A85W0'=W=X6% M=R.%W7?=A7>%=X6%=T!WW4#=W=W==]W=W87=W7?==T5%=]W1=W?1W='=W=T> MNK)]NGVRNKI=NK*Z=%VZ)EU=&KJZNAJZNAHF<AHF&KHF<B:Z<G(:<K)RLG)R M<K(:&B8:&K)R)AJR)AIR&B9R<G(F&G)R&B9R<K(F)AIR&AH:&G)R&K(FNAH: MPKH:LB:R)B:Z75U=)GVZLL)=)G2Z?;I=?5TL'GVZ'GU]72PU+'U]?<<L+#6_ M+,<>ORS':6EI-37'-<?':8;'OR_'QR\ZD<<O:9%I.H:1+R\Z.B\ZRCHO.CHZ M+SK*+]@ZRLHORCK*.MC8.FUM+SHZRFU!.CK8V,K*RLHZ.B\ZRCK*V-C*D3K* MRCHZRD'*+Y$O+\J1D<HZ088O:0@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(,S,1 M$9!N;FX"U-34U-2-7U]?Z.CHZ.CHZ$K!P41$1$1E@X.AH:&<ZZNKZZ&A@X.F MIIJ:FIJ:FIJ:FIJ:FF2LK*SQ2\M_(-0@"`@("`@("`@("`@("+_'QRP>QQY] MO\?'-<<L+!XLQS6_Q\>_+"PUQ\?'QRS':<=IQ[^_-<<LQW9V=G9VJPWU$W8< MJPWU]1,<JPWU]?6KZY]6?#X[W+&V(HC'-6G'AI''-<>1-;\UQ\=IQVG'Q\<( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@L M-<=I+"PLQ[]I-34LO\?'+"S'Q\?'QVDU-2PUQVDUQS7':<>`((`"-DM&Y>&! MGW8<JPT7S,PYG*&.7'S.9;ZSFCZNK*Z;RH8Z.LHO.D'*+T%!.CK8+SK*;<K* MRLK8RCHZV$$ZRMC*V#K*V&US.MASV'/8RLK*"`@("`@("!P<'!P<'!P<'#DY M*,T$/V)Y8C\$!"BAH=X-J^L-WB?AX:'AX1A(.],A\@PA.[Y(&.$G#0VAH8/A MX>%P?+.:FJ2S?'Q\?'Q\?#P\<]AS<]AS;45SEG,\ED5SV',\/&US/#R6<T4\ MT44\<Y8\/#P\<]$\T3P\1='=T3Q%/$4\/#S1/$4\144\/-U%W47=T=UWT44\ M1=W=/#S==]$\W=W=W87==W?1=]V%W=UWA=W1T=W==]UWT7=WA4!`W=UWW=U` M=]W=W=U`W7?=0'?=2=V%=W=`0$!W0-W=W4#==T!`0(5)A85)W7=`0$E)A4E) M27=)=X5W=]U`0-UWW=U)W4EW27>%W7=WA7=W0'>%=T!W24EW0$E`0-UW0$#= MW=UW=]U)W=U`=W=WW4"%A4#=A=U`(X6%A7=WW=U`W7=WA=%WT7?1W7?1=X71 MA7=WT7=W=W?11='=1=%=NG2Z'KI=7;IT?;)]NETF)G1T=!JZNL*R&AH:&KJZ MNK(F)KJR)AHFLG(F<B8F)G)R)G(:)AH:<K)R<G(:&G)R&B9R<G*W&D]R<G)R M<B9R)B8F&AIR)AH:<B9R)G(F&K)R)KHF&KJZLAH:&ETFLL*R)B:ZNGU]?;I] MNEVZ'GTL=%U]+'U='BQ]+'2_++_'-<<L-<<UOS4L:35IQVG':;^_O\=I:6EI MQSHZ:6G':2]I.CI!.CHZ.D$Z+SJ1.CK8V-@Z.MC*.CHOV,K*.M@ORCK*+\HZ M;<HZ+\IM.CHZ.CHZV,HZV"^10<K*D=C*RCHZD3H("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@(,Q$1$9"0;FX"7U]?7U]?Z,'!IJ9-34VFID3#-DT[KO&L M\*;67#`PY.2#H:'DZZOKZ^2AH8.FIIJ:FIJ:FF2LK*SQ2TM_(-1_"`@("`@( M"`AT="Q]QS4U-7V_ORQ]-7U]+,?'QS4U+"S'-;\>-;\LQRS'-2PL+#7'QS4U M-2PUQW9V=G9VJPWU$QP<JPWU]1,<JPWU]?6K#2=67#X[W+&V'8C'O[_':6DU MAC7'OVF_O\=IOP@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@(""PU-36_QS4U++\UORPU+,?'+#4>QS6_+"PU+,<L-34U++\U M-2PU+#6`?X!N;B5&Y:&?8+PYZR>!5I0YG.&.7##.9;ZSFCZN\:Z;:<<Z.I$Z M:<J1D2\OD3J&D3K*.LK*V"\ZRCK*.CHZV-C*RLHZRLISRG-S;<K*"`@("`@( M"`@("!P<'!P<'!P<.3DH*`0_8GE*2DI*966#H:$G#>NK#=XW5CGD<'QD(FS3 MM;DBI.'6-_4-)^&#941$2DI*2DI*2DJ:?'Q\?'Q\FSS*<SQMV-AS/',\<W-M MV)9M/);8/#S8/',\V$5S/)9S<W,\<SQSECQS/'-SED5S/$5S/',\17,\W=$\ M/$5S/-%S/#S=/#P\T3S=/#S=1=U%/$7=147=W3Q%147=1=W=1=W=W=W=W=UW M/$5%T7?11=UW=T5WT=%W1=UW=]UW=X6%=]UW=X5`=]W==W=W=]W1=]W=(]UW MA8710-W1W2.%=X5W0-V%=W?=2=UW=T#=W87==]W=0(7=W=W=W4#==T#=A4"% M=T!`W7>%A=W=W=UW0'?=0-V%W='==]%`W=U`W=UW0'?=W4!`=W=`W=V%=W=W MT=V%A=UW=T5WW7?=W7?==W?=W=W=W7=WT=U%1=U]+'U]75TL'L)]+'W"7;H> M770>?70FPKITNB9=PKJZNB8:LB:RNK*R&KH:NAHF)B:Z<K(:&B9R<G(F<AIR M&K<FMW)R<AH:)AI/<G)/<B8F<B9R<D\F&G(:&G)R&G)R<G)R<AH:&B:RNB:Z M&K(F&KHF)AJZPAJZ7;JR?7VZ?5UT?;I]="P>?71='GTL="PU?2PU-2PU-;\L M++_'+,<U-2S':<<UQVF1:8;'QX8ZQY%I.I$O.CK'09&1.CII:9&&RCK*.CK8 M.I$Z.LHZ.LHZ.M@ZD<K8V-@ZV,HZRCHZV-@Z.LHZ.LK*.LJ103HZR@@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(,Q$1$41$1$I*7U]?7U]?Z.C! MP<##)6$$1#Y+-DV^H&2:JJ;65HQ<8X.!5HQ<X93,JZOKY.3D@X.#@Z:FFF2L MK/'Q;FX"U-34"`@("'TU+!XL-34L?;_'-;\LOWTUQ\=]+#7'?<<L-37''C4L MQS4L-2PUO\<LOVDL-<>_O\?'-79V=G9VJPWU$W8<JPWU]1,<JPWU]?6KZR=6 M7'P[W+&G'8B_:34UQS7'OVG'OVD("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(ORPLQWTU+'TU'BPU'C6_?2R_+#4L'AX> M-34L+'TLQRPLOS4L+,?'++\U-2R`?ZIN;F%&Y:&?%Q,YG.&.5E:7Y>&.?##. M1+ZSFCZ@K*Z;D9&1.FEID3HZ+X:1+R]ID9'*.I&1.CI!+\HZ03J1RCK8.D'8 M.M@ORD$("`@("`@("`@("`@("!P<'!P<'!PY.2@H@X.AH8.#@V5E@Z&AE^3A MA%*K#=XW5CF<<'QD(FS3M;FLI.'6-U'>!EQE98.#@X.#@X.#@X.#965(2$A\ MFSQS/',\<SP\/#P\<W-S<SQM;3P\/#QS<]AS/&V6/'/817-S/#P\<T5%<SP\ M/#P\<VT\/&T\EG,\13Q%/#P\13P\ECQMEM$\<SQST=$\/#QS199S/-&6T=$\ MW47=/-%S17-%/$5%/#Q%T9;=13S=W=W=W44\W3S=/$5%W='==]W1=]UW/$7= MW7?=/-T\T=UW=]W=1=W=1=W=17=W17?1T=W=185WW=UWW471=W?1=W=%A7?= MW7?=1=W==]V%W7?==W=W=W=WT=W=T=UW=W=W0-TC=W?==W=`W=UW=X5WW85` M=]%`=]U`=]&%=]%W=W=W=]UWT=V%1=U%=]W1=]U%1=%W=W?=W7?=/#Q%/-TU M+"S'-34U+'0>+#4L+'1]+'U]?1["+'TL'AX>77TFNGUT=+HFNEVZ7;JZNG*Z MLAIRLB8:<K(F<K)R&G)R)K)R<B9R)AHFMW(:&B9R<G*W&G)R<K<:)G*W&AIR M)AIRMW(F&B8F<B9R)K)R<G)RNB8F<G(F&B:Z&KI=&B8FLKHFNKITPKJZ77U] MNEU]++HL?70L72QT?7U]?7U]+"PL+#4U+,<UQRS'O\?'O\?'-6G':9&1QY%I MQVG'D3J1.H8Z.LJ&D9&1ACJ&.LHZAI&1RB\ZRB_*RCK8RD&1D<HO.M@Z+R\Z M.LHZD<H("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("$U- M1$1*7].-7U]?7^@4%!04%!0VV6$$ICY+-N5(?"V:1H.!5HQ64*'65HP&X90W M46#DY.3DY.3D@X.#@Z:FIJ9$;FX"U-34-36_+'TUOWU]'GTL?2R_+"PLQS4> M+"PLORPL+"PU'BPL+"R_Q[_'QS7'+,=IQRS'+,?'-2QI:79V=G9VJPWU$W8< MJPWU]1,<JPWU]?6KZ]Z47'P[B&BG';DLQ\<U-2S'QP@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@>ORQ]?34U'BPL+"PU M='T>++]]+"Q]+'U]'C5]ORPL-37'++^_?7TUOWTLQS4LOWV`?ZIN$=!&8Z'> M]1.7G.$*?%Q&Y>&;?+/.1#NDFCZ@K*Z;:<>&QY'':9&1:6DO.CK'.FF1.I$Z M+VDZ.LII03I!.I&1RCJ1RLH("`@("`@("`@("`@("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(".;J5U=75U>B%!1;6Q0V8=#PIILE-N48FWPP ME^2?-S>4S:&!5E8&X9]@46"4E.OKZ^OKZYR<Y.2>=74XP%NB5U?4="PU+"PL M-34>+"Q]++\UOWTL?2PL+'TL+"P>QS4>-37'Q\<L-34>OS4L++\LOVG'QRPU M+&G'QW9V=KQVJPWU$W8<JPWU]1,<JPWU45&K#2=67'P[KAUH';G'ORS'"`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(""P> MOQYT?2PL?;\L?7V_+"Q]'G0L+!XL71XU+#5T+"PL=#4L-2PL?34L'K^_+#4L M-<<U?2R`RZJ0$=#N8R<7];PHY.&;?'Q&Y7";L[/.1#NDFCZ@9*Z;D;]IQVEI MD9$OD;^_D<?'QVDZQVF1+Y$OD3IID6DZRCHZ00@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@(")R<G)R<G*&AH8.#@V5E@X.>GIZ>=G92E^3A696KJQ<W5CGDX9N:(FR- M0XB:?.&?S&`-8`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`@("`@("`@("`@("'\@(-34 M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("&G':;_'"`@("-17HA04 M6UMN)=`H@YLE$>485E96.>O>%U%1JPT78,PW)V!1]6"4E.N<G.3DGIYU=77` M6UL45RP>?7T>?2Q]-;\>+,<L-1XU+,<LOS4>?2R_+'T>QRR_QRPLQQXUQ[_' MORS'Q\<UQS6_Q[_'QS5IQ[\L+':\O!.\JPWU$W8YZPWU]1,<JPT78%&KG)]6 M7'P[KAT=';D("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@(-1XUORPLORS'ORPL'GTLOQY]'C4U+#4U-2PL+%U]72PL-;\> M?;]]+'TL?2R_?;\U+'0LOWT>?2R`2S:0$2ON8][U]78HY'";L[-&Y1B;LYK. M1#NDFCZ@FJ2;+#5I-<?'QVF&D;_'QVEI:<>1D<>1QX;'.L<OQR]I+P@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("(.#965$1'5U=3@X=75U=G9VE^3A M!UFKJ_7,5CGD<)N:(FR-#(B:?.&?S&`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`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@(2R#4U"`@("!_?W]_?W]_?W]_RTL("`@("`@("`@("`AIQ[]I M:0@("`@("`@("`@("`@("-20)6$H@YMA$>7A"C=@'*L-]?7U'*OU45%1#?7U M4<R4"IZI=75U=3C`6[\L+"S'-7U]?<?'OWU]+"S'+"Q]-2P>O\<>ORS'?34L M+"PU'AXL+"PL-1XL-;_'Q\<U-34LQVDU-<?'O\?':6F_O[P3$W83JPT7=APY MZ]X74;P<Z]Y@-\RKH8%67'P[KAT=';D("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`C'QRR_O[\L+,<L?<<U?;_'QS4L+'TL+#7' M?7U]?7T>?2R_ORQ]?35]+'TUORPUOQY]+'TL?2Q]-7TL?7V`2S:0$2ONZPWU M%P$HY!B;L[.JY4B;LYK.1#N:FCX^FJ0^QVDL+,<U-2PUQ\=IAFEIQ\?'Q\>& MQY&_AL>_"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(V#HZ MREM;%!04%!04=G:51N08,UDH#?5@E#GD<)N:(FR-#(B:?.&?S&`-]1<\RFV6 MV,K*V,IS;7.6<W-M;<K8RMC*/'/*;<H\V#QM0T-##`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`AA?R#4("!_?W]_?W]_?W]_?\O+2TN0 M86$K`((3O()67'RS"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`AN)6'P@XYA$>7AGU'U M'.O>8&!@J^OU]?7U#?51S#=65JEU=1XU++\L+'TL?2PL+!Z_+#5]-<=]++_' MQWTL'C6_-<<LORPU+,<U+!['+"S'O\?'-2S'+,?'O[_'QVDUQVDLQRS'+#4U M+&F_:1,3O'9VJ]Z?4EDHG"?,S(0YG"<W5I0HH8%<,'P[KAT=';D("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(""S':<>_+,>_QRPL-34L MQ\<L+,<L+"PL+#5]QWT>+#4L+!Y]+"PU-34L-;\L?2R_?2Q]+#6_?2PL='UT M?35TORRJ2S:0$2ONZPWU%P'PY!B;FJ2J34@^FIK.1#N:FCX^FJ0^+!['-2PL M++\LQS7'Q\?'Q\?'QVEIO[]I"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`AA?R#4(']_ M?W]_?W]_?W]_RTM+PY!A86$``+P3O`!67'RSD&'#2\M_?R`@U-0@('\("`@( M"`AND"7PIHYA$9PG8/7U')PG-Y24*)P745%1#9\W5E965GU]OS4UORS'ORR_ M'L<L-2P>-2PLQS4L?2Q]+"Q]OWT>QQXU+"S'Q\>_Q\<U+#7'-2PUQS7'QS4U M-34L:;_'Q\=IQ\?'-<<UQ\=ID1.\=I528Z&!`3DHH8$WE`$HY.%65E90H8Y\ M,+,[B!T=';D("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(OVF_ MQ[_':;^1:37'QVEIQ\<LQS4UO[_'++_':;\UQRPL-<<LQ\?''C4>-<<L+#4U M-;]]+,>_+'W'O[^_+#4>-2P>OS5K2S:0$2L'ZPWU8`'PY!B;FJ2J34@^FIK. M1)NSFCY\FK,^'C4U+"S'+#4UQ\?'+"S'Q\=IORP("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(AH;*.B\Z.LHZD3HZ.CHZ.CHOE0`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("&%A("#4(']_?W_+R\O+R\O+2TN0D&%A86$`@KP3@@!67'RSD-G# M2\M_?R`@U-0@(']_"`@("`AN2R7PIIMA$9SA%_51')SA5E96S:&?8&!@)X%6 M5E965BQ]+#6_-2PL?2PU+"PU?;^_?2S'+"S'?34UQS4L-1XU'L>_-34LQRPL M-;_'Q\?'QS6_+&EI-<<LQS4UD6F_D<?'AL?'AL<UQY&&O[QV4C,S8^&.*SDH MH8%6!@$HY(Y67%9CH8Y\9*0^B!T=:+D("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`B1D<=IAFEI:<?'D9$OD;^1OY'':6F1:9$U:88UQ\>_Q\?':<<L MO[_'Q[\U++\U-;]IQS4L++\L-34UQ[\>QWTU-2PL+#7'+"QK2S:0$2M9ZPWU M8`%&Y!B;FJ2J34@^FIK.1)NSFIM\L[,^OWTU+"PLQQXU-2PL-;\U++\("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`C'QY%ID2^&D9&1D3HZ MD3K*RB_*V,K*,P`S1J88$1%C)_47E#GD<)N:(FR-#+DBI'".5E8G4?5M/`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`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(86%A?]34("!_?W_+R\O+2TM+2Y"086%A M86$``;P3O()65EQ\89!N;G]_?R`@U-0@?W]_"`@("`AN2TOPIIMA$9PG%_51 M'.2!5E964*&?-\PW)PI6?%Q<5BPU-2Q]+'TLQS7'O[\L+#7'?7V_'BS'Q[\L M++\L-2R_++^_Q[^_+"PL++\L+,?'Q\<U+&DUQX:_Q[]I:36_Q\?'OVEIQ\?' M:6G'QW9VE3,K8^&.*SG-H8%65@$HY(Y6?%QC@XZSK*X[W&BG[[D("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(""\Z:3HZ.CI!:6DZ:2\Z+VDZD2\Z.I&1+VDO M:2_'AI&1QVDO:<<OQVF1AFF1:361O[]I:<?'-<>_:6G'QVF_-<?'-2PL-2S' M+"PU++\V2VZ0$2LYZPWU8`&7Y!B;LZ2J34@^FIK.1)NSLYN;,#";-2PU+"PU M++_'?<<L?;\("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`C' M+X8OQ\<ZAI$Z.FDO.CHZ.CI!+R\Z+\K*,P`S1J88$3-CH?47-SGDX9N:(FR- M#+D=I'".7%8G4?4("`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`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`AA86&0?]34U-0@ M?W]_R\M+2TM+PY"086%A86$``(03O(245EQ\86%N;@)_?R`@(-0@?W]_"`@( M"`@"2TOPIIMA$9PG8%'U')R!5E:,8Z&!5I16X59\,'PP7!Y]Q[\UORPL'K\L M-2PUQWT>+,?'+"S'+"R_O\<LQ[\LQRS'QRS'ORQI+,<LOS7'ORS'Q\<UQ\?' MOS6&D89IQ[^1:<?'Q\?'+\=ID792,S,SY>&;T`?-H8%65@$HH8Z;,#!C99NS MK*Y#N;&Q[[8("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(.MC*V)$Z.I$Z.CK*RD&1 M.LHZACJ102^1.CHZ.CK*:9&1.I%ID9$Z.CJ1.FDZ:2]IACK'D<?'O\>1Q\?' MAK^1OVF1:;_'QVEIQVEI+&DL:35K;C9ND-#NZPWU%P$YY'";LZ2JY4B;LYK. M99M\,)N;?'R;++\>+!['?34U'@@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@(",=I:<>1Q\>&QR^&AL>&AFDZ:6F1.I&1ACJ1.I$Z,RL11J:. M$3-0H1?US#GDX9N:(FR-#+8=B$B;?%:?8/4("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@K86&0?]34U-34U"!_?\M+2TM+PY"086%A86$K`((3$X(W5E9<86&0 M;@("U'\@(-0@?W]_"`@("`@"2V[PIIMA,YPGGU'U')R!5E9<4*&!5E96X9LP MLWR:?!XL?2S''BPL?2Q]++\>+#4L-2PU+'T>++\L+,>_+"S'QRPLORS'Q[\U M:<=I+"PLOS4LAC5IQX9ID89IQ[^1Q[^&:<?'D2\ZQY''+Y4S,Q%AY>&;T-G- MH8%6!@$HH1A\LS#.99N:\8A#N;&G?K8("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(;=AS MRD'*.LI!RLHZ.G/*V#HZ.MC*.M@Z.LK8+]@Z.LHO0<J1.LHZ.CHZ.LHORB\Z MAB]I:6DZ:4$Z.CHZ+Y%I:8;'+\=ID2\O:;]IQX;'Q\<UOS5K;C9N;F'NG-[U M]827Y.&;,+.JY7";L[/.98Y\?`I65ER;+#4L+,<>+`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("#7'O\>1:<>&:8:1QVDOQY&1+X8ZAB\O M.B\O.D$Z+]C*$6$11H..,S-0H1?U8!SDX9N:(FR-#+9HB$B;?%R!S!<("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@`86&02]34U-34U-34?W_+2TM+2TO#PY!A M86$K`(03$[Q@E%9<86&02TL"`M1_("#4(']_"`@("`C42V[PIIMA,YSAGU'U M'.OA5E:,4*&!5EQ<&)LPFK.:LRPL++_'?<=]?<=]?34LO[\LQRPL+"S'Q[\L MORS'++^_+,<LQRS'+"QI-2R_-6EIQ\>_AC5IQS7'AI%IQY%IAK]IQX;'+R_' M:6DZQS,S,Q%AY7";81$$H8Y65BLHH8Y\FIK.1#ZD(MQ#N;&G?K8("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`C8RMAMV$'*V-ASEG/*RCK*RG,ZV&W*07/8V'/*<W/8V#HZ;<HZ MRMC*RG-M.FW*V#K8.LI!+R_8RCHOD<HO.CHZ+Y$Z+R_*.CII:9$OQSHZ:3HO M+VG'Q\?(`C9N;B7NG"<7]78YG.$*?'Q&Y>&;?##.@XZ;7`I65@:.QRPL"`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(""S':6DU-;^_AFF1 MAI&1:<=I:2_':6F1QX9I:9&1.I$Z.I%!$6$11H..,S-0H2?U%QR<X9N:(FR- M#+:GW$B;?'R!E&`("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@`86%A2]1_?W\@ M("#4(']_RTM+2TM+2TO#86%A`(*\$Q-@-U9<86&0PTO+RW]_?R`@("!_"`@( M"`C4`F[PIH[0,YPGGU'U'.LG5E:,4*&.7'PP&)NSFIJLH"PL-2PL+'U]?7TL M?2R_+'V_-7U]+#5]-<<U+#5]OQ['-7T>+,>_QRPL+"S'-37'Q\?'Q\?'OS7' MQ\>_QVF1D<?':2^1+SIIQP@("#,K$1%AY7";81$$@XY<7"O-@XY\FIK.1#Z( M(MQ#N;&Q?K8("`@("`@("`@("'-S<\K*V',\<SQMV-@\;3S8EG/8/,J6EI8\ MRG-S<Y;8RLIMRMAS<W-SV#S8V-AS;7.6<]A!RLIS;3HZ<]@ZRCK*.CK*RLK* M.LHZ.I$ZRI'*.LJ&+Y%!03HZ.FG(U&L";DNCY:$7];PYG">!5ER7Y>&.7'QC M@XY65@H*E#<*"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( MQ[\L+,<L:2QIQVF1OS61Q[^_O\?'+R\OD<?'QR\Z+Y%I.FDZRI$ZD&$1EX/A M,S-CH9]1%QR<X9N:(FR-#+:Q(DB;LS#65@H("`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`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`B"86%A2U=75U=75]34U,C4R,O+?W]_?\M+D&%A*P""O!,7-U9<86&0 MPTM+2\O+?W\@U"!_"`@(-<?4?V[PIH[0,^LG%U'U'.LGE%:,4*&.7#`P&'RS MFF3QKBPUOWTU+!XU=+\>ORQ]+"PL'BPL+"PU-7U]+,<L?;\L'C6_Q\?'+"S' M+#4L+#4L+#5IQ[_'QRR_AC6_QS4U-<>1OY''"`@("`@("!%A$1%AY7";81$_ M@XY\,-`$IKZS9*S.2J#<'=Q#N;&Q?K8("`@("`@(<\J6<\H\<Y;*/#S8<W-S M1=@\V&UM;45M<T5MECQS;3Q%/#QMV-AS<T78/'.6/#Q%/',\;7-S<W-SV#S8 MRG/*RG/8RG-MV&W*RLK*V$$ZRCK8.B\Z.MC*RCHZV)'8D3K4U`EK-FXVY:$7 M];P<Z]Z?E%8YG*&.5EQCH8Y65H&?S,R!"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@(:<<U-36_:34U:36_D8;':<?'-9%IQ\=I:9%I.FG'+Y'' M.H9I.B\ZAH:1D&$1[H/A,S-CH9\7%QR<X9N:(@5*0[E^N;X^FK/67%8("`@( M"#N^&!@G#0TGX>&!CHZ.CHZ.CKX[.SL^/CY#0T,,M0RU0R$ATTI(2&7AH:'D MG)R<G`V#@YS3.I&1:;]IQ[\UQVDLQRPLOS7'?7T>?1Z_+"QT75T>=%U]NAZZ M7;K"?5UTLEVZ)EU==%VZ7;HFNKI=)L)=NB:RLL*ZNB:Z=":ZPB8FPGTF)B9] M?;I]NEU]71ZZ+"PL'BPL'G0U770U'AXL+"PUQRP>-;_'+,?':34UORQIAH;' MQ[^_D9''QR_'QR\ZD2^1D2\Z.FF103HO+Y$Z:9%ID9&&.H;*.B\ORLHZRCHZ MRLK*RCK*.B^1.I$O.B\OD2\ZD3HZRLHZ.LJ1RCHOD3J1RB\ZD9&&.CK*RCHZ M.CI!.H:1.H9I.B]I02^Z7;I]NL*Z?;K"NG1=NBRZNBP>771]=!X>='TU'C5T M'BPU?1Z_-;^_-;\U+,?'QQ['-<<UQRPLO[\L+,?'+"PU+!['QQ[''L>_+,<L M?7TL+"PLOWV_QS6_-1XUQS7'OS4L++\LOWV_?1XU+"PL='TL'G1T+'TL+%U= M?2Q=71Y=NG0L'KIT'G1]?7VZ'KI='K*ZNL)=?;)]7;I]75U=7;I=)EVZ)EW" M7;(("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`B"*V%A6UL4HE=75]34U-34R,C(R`("`FYN M2R7N!UE9@A/U8%9<86&0PTM+2TM+RW]_(-0@'BR_+![4`F[PIHXK,^L-%U'U M'.LGE%:,4*&.7#`P&'R:FJPBKBPU+'V_+"PU-1Z_O[\U+'U]+#5]-2P>?1Y] M?7V_ORS'?7TL-2PU?35]'K\L++\U+"S'-34U-<?':2S':<>&Q\<("`@("`@( M"`@("!$ED)`EY7";81$_IHY\,&$$IKZDK/%-2D,B';E#N;&Q?K8("`C8<W-S MRLK8/#QS<Y9MEG-SECP\13QM<T4\ECQM/$5%13S1/-&6T471ECQ%T7,\T=%S M<SQSEI9%T3P\T6W1;99M/#R6199S;3P\/-@\V-ASRCS8;3S*0<K8;<K8;=AS M.CHO;<K4"<_4:P*JY>&?]1,<JPT78,PYZR>!5E9CH8%65H%@8%&?"`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(QVG'-6EIQVF_+#4U:34UD9''OX;' M+VF1D9$O:2^1:2_'.B^&D9%!:6F1.CJ1D!$1[H/A,S-CH9]1%QR<X9NS\05* M0[FQMCN@FIJ^,)L("`@("#L[OACA#0W>X8&!@8Z.CHZ.CA%$1$I*2M-*T],A M(2XNX.`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`B"*V%U=<!;%%=7 M5]3(U,C(R,@"`FYN2TLE8=`'Y.2<JZMV`2LE)4MNJH"`JJJJRW]_(-0@+"PU M?1[4?V[PIHXKE:L-]5'U'.LGE%964*&.?#`P&'R:K/$BB'W''BR_?34U?2PU M+!XU+#6_=!XU-7TL+'TU+"PL'GU]+'TL-<<UOWW'+!XU'BPU-1XU+,<UQ\?' M-2PL-0@("`@("`@("`@("`@(")`ED&XEY7";89`_99NSFB4$ICNDK/%-2D,B M';E#N;&Q?K9SRG/8RLISRCP\<\IMV#P\/'-%1=AS198\;45S/#P\145S17/1 M<SQ%145%T3Q%EM$\W=U%1='=<]T\<]T\/'/1EMW=T7,\13S1<W,\T=%S199S M/):6EI8\V',\/'/8V,K*/#IM<]C4U,_4"<BJY>&!%Q,<JPWU46`<ZR>?5E9C MH8$W-Y\745$7"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`C'Q\<L:37'Q\?' MO\>_QS61OS5IOY''D9&1O\?'Q\?'QY$Z+SII.I&1.LHZ.B]!.CHZD!$1[H/A M,S-CH9]1]1SKX0HPF@5*0]QHMB&N(O$^FGP("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`B$`'5UP,!;%!04HM34U,C(R,C(`F[#2\,E80>!Y($WA!-V`0$K*]#0 M-JJJJJJJ%!2B5U=7'AXL+"S4?V[PIHXK,ZL-]5'U'.LG5E:,4(..?#"S2*"L M\2(=B"Q]QWT>?<<U?1XU?35]?7TU+!Z_?7U]?2PL-34U?7TU-70L-5TL+'TL M+"PLOS4LOQXL+'W'+!Y]"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(")"0D&XEY4B;)9`_ M99NSFB4$93N:K/%-2D,B:+E#N7ZG?K;8RLIMRI;*<\IS<W.6RLH\/)9S<SP\ M/#QS/'.6/'-SECP\EM%S1=W=145%EMU%/-W=T44\/-U%T7?=/-%WW44\W=$\ M1=W=W='=W466W3Q%17,\/$4\/)9ST3QSECS8/):6<]@\/#R`U,_4"=2JY>&! MGW8<JPWU]1<<J]Z?-S=0H2=@8-X74?7U"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@UD36&Q[^_AC5IQVEIQ\=I-6G'QY%IQ[^_QVG'QY%IQX:&+VEI:3K'+SJ1 M.FDORFDZD4$O$1$1[H/A,S-0H9]1]1RK)X%\FGE$.X@=N0R('1U#K*0("`@( M"`B#H>OKH8.FIF5$2DI*2DIL(8C(Z4J@\?&`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`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`B"GG5U.,#`6UL4%,C(U-34R`(";DO#2\.0 M8="!Y)_,A!-2`2LK`0$![NY&HZHVP,!;6RPU-2PU'L?4`F[P98XK,^L-%U'U M'.OA5E9<4(..?#":OJ3Q(B(=B'TU'GV_O\<U+"R_ORQ]?;]]'AYT'BQT735] M7;\L='TL77TU+!X>71YT?1XL=%T>?70U+'T("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("&Z0;FXEY4@^2Y!Y1)NSFDL$93N:\2)-2D,B:+E#MGZG?K;*.MC8.CIS MRFW80=C8V);8RCS*/#QS<T5%<T5%<W-S/#QST7,\W=W=/-$\/-'=1=U%/#P\ MT=W1/'?=/$5W/-W1T=T\=]'1/-UW1=%%/#S=T=W=1=T\147=EM$\/-$\EG.6 M198\/#RJU`G4"=2JY7".E(0<ZPWU]?4<JPT78&"K#1=14?474?7U"`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`B1OR_':9%IQS5ID6F&-<=I-<=IAK^1-<?'D<>1AB^& M:9$O+\>1:9$O+SK'QY&&:6DZ:6DZD88Z$1$1[H/A,S-CH9]@]1RKWH%6,'FF M.Z3QW`P0L;%#(JX("`@("`@(")RA@X.FIF5$2$@V-C9L(8C(Z4J@(B*`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`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`AXGIYU=3C`6Q04 M5\C4U-34?VX";FY+2VZ0)="!Y)_,=A-V@BLK`0%V61P<4AQ9>)ZI-2PUO\<L M+#74?P+P99O0,^O>%U'U')SA5EPP8X.;?+.:OJ[Q'2)H(L<L+#4LQ[\L-2PU MOS4U+#4L-34U-;\U-7TU72Q]-34L+"PL'ETL75U]+%TL+"Q]P@@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("-F0;FZ0Y4@^2VYY1)NS9$L$93N:\2)-2D,B M:+D,MGZV?KDZ.I&1.LHZ+R_*RMC8.LHZ;<IMV#S8;<H\V)9S;3QS/#QM;='1 M<W-%/#QSECQ%ED5%1=U%145%T7?1T=W1T44\1=W=W3QW13S1T3S=1=U%/-W= MT44\T=T\W=W=/#Q%W44\/#Q%13RJ:PG4"=2`31B;5@$YZ]X74?4<JPT745&K MZ_7U]?4745'U"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(",>&QSHZ:9'':9&1OY&&D<>1QVG' M:<>&:6EID9&_:6G'D6F&+Y%IAB^1:6DO.B_':3J103HOD9$Z:6EI$3,S[H/A M,S-CH8%@]7:K#9]6?`2FOK.:KB&('6BU'8@("`@("`@("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@(=74XP%M;%'_4U-34`G\";@)N;FZ0)1&!Y)\W=A.\=E*5=G9V MJJJJHT;NGGB_-2PLORPLQ\?4U`+I1)O0,YPG%U'U')P87#`P8X.;,#":OJXB M'1UH'<>_+,<L+"R_ORR_Q[_'ORS'OWU]?1XU+"Q]+!X>+"PU7<)]?5T>72Q] MPAZZ"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(")"0;FZ0Y4@^2VYY M1)NS9$L$93ND(B)-2D,=L;D,MGZY?KF1+\<OQSHZ.FF&.CJ&.CK*+SIMRCK* MRLIM<VT\<W-S;6T\/&T\<SR6<SS1/$71/$4\<W.6T47=/-'=13P\T7=%T3Q% M=W<\147==W?=W=$\T='=W=W=W='=W=W1199%W98\/#Q%T=&J`@G4"=2`34B; M5BLYG">?4?5VJPWU]?6KJ_7U]?7U]5$7"`@("`@("`@("`@("#K':2]!+VDZ M:2\Z:3II.I%I+R]ID6F1.B^1:<>1D6G'QY$OAL<Z+SJ&.FG':9$ZQ\>1:3II M.CHZD6DZD2]I,S,S.:'A,S-CH8',]1RK#9]67`2#CGRSFCN@(AVU:-P("`@( M"`@("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("'_4U-34?W\"`@)N;F[9 M)1&!H8$W=KP3O'9V$Q,3JJJJ-JHV+"S'-2S'QRS'Q[_4U`+I1)MA,YPG%U'U M'.2.?#"S8V6;,#":OJXB'1UH';_'-2S'+#7'Q\<L-7V_+#4L'BPL++\L-7TL M-1XL77U]-2PL?7U]'@@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@(")"0;FZ0Y4@^2VYY1)NSFDL$93ND(B)-2D,=L;:UMK&Y?KEI:37'-9%I MQX;'+\>1QY$Z:3J1D3HZRCHZRLK8.FW8;3ISRI9MRFT\RLISV-@\<VT\/)8\ M1=$\19;1ECS=T3S=W=T\T=W1W=T\/-T\W=W=W=W=/-T\1=W=1=T\W3S=1=T\ M<]$\T9:J`@G4"=2`34B;7"N7Y.&!S!<<JPWU]?6KJ_7U]?7U]5$G"`@("`@( M"`@(D2_*+SHORD$Z.I$Z.H8OQVEI:9$O+SII:3HOQY$Z.L>1QVDO.FDZAFDZ MQR^1QVDO+SII:6EIAFDZ.L>1.I%I:9$O,S.5.:'A,S/EX8XW]1RK#1=6!LVA MCILP?+X^K"*UL;D("`@("`@("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"'_4U-0@R"#4`@(";FY+)1'6H8&4E79VO!.\$[QVJJJJ-JHLO[\UQQ['QRPL MQRS4U'_I1)MA,YPG%_7U.>2.?#":SF6;L[.:OJ[Q'1UH'35IQRPL:2R_-;_' MORS'-36_-1XU+,<L+#5T+"PL-71T'GU]"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@(")`ED&X1Y4@^2VX_99NSFDL$93NN(AU-TXAH M?K8,N6@=L;DU+"R_?35]'C7'-;^_-;_'QY&_:6G'Q\=I.CHZ:<I!+\HZD9&1 MRLHZRCHZV-C8V,K8V#P\V#S*V-C81=AM17-S/#P\/#S113QS<SQS17,\<]W= M/#Q%T44\/#Q%/-%S/-'1/'-%19:J`FO4"=2`34@^?&&7Y.$*5F`<JPWU45&K MJ_7U4?7U]?6?"`@("`@(+SK8+SHZV"\ORI$ORCII+VF1+T%I+VDO+Y$Z.FF1 MD2]IQR^1ACII:6DOQVG'D3II.I%IQY%IAFEI+SJ1.CIID2\O+R^1,X)V.:'A M,S/EX8%6%QRK#1<W5LWDX59<7$B;FJP,?KD("`@("`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`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@(""#4("#4U-0@U"#4?\@"`FYN2Q$DH8%6,U*"=A,3@G9V M.T-#M4-#0SL,QRR_-34LQRS4U`+I1)MA,YPG%_51.>08?#":SD2;FBUDOJ3Q M(AUH'34L-;\L-6DL++]I-2S'-2S'+"PLQ[\>+,<U?7TL+'T("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("!$ED&X1Y4@^2TL_ M99NSFDL$1#N((AT2TXBG?KE#(ATB:-S"72RZ+%TL?2PU72PU+"Q]O[]]?<<L MO\<U-34UO\?'OX9ID8;'+Y$Z:3IID3J1RI'8.CK*;3K8.LIMV'-M<\K*<W/8 MRI;8/&T\/)8\/$5%V#QS16T\;7,\V'.6ECS8/&US;7,\;0BJ`FO4"=2`33L^ MLV%&IAB;5C<<Z]X78%&KJ_7U]?7U]5&?"`@(.LHZ06TOV-C*.I'*D9$ZRLK* MRI$O.CII.LJ1.FF1.I$O:8:1+VF1:3HO:3K'D9$Z.B]I:2^1:9$O+SHOQY%I MAI$OQR\ZD9$Z,X)V.:$G,S/EX8%6%QRK#1?,5BCDX5965AB;FF1#?KD("`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("'\@U'_4U-34U-34(,C(?VY+ M2Y";@X%6,P$`4G9V@E)2.T,,M4-#0R$,0T,L+"PLQQX@U`)B1)MA*YS>%_51 M.>2.7#"SSF6;FIIDOJ2L(AUH'<=IQS6_OS6_Q\?'-34UORS'-<?'QRPUQ\<U M-0@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("!$1D&X1Y4@^2Y`_99NSFDL$1#Z('6C!T[5^?KE#(B(B'8@FLKK"PB:Z M)KI==+K")KJRNEVZ="PL?7TL+'U==+\L-2Q]'L<UOS4L++^&Q[^&QX9I+\<Z MD<<Z.I%IRCK*.LK*.B\ZRCK*+]C8RCK*.D'*.FUSRI;8<\ISRLIS<Y:6;=B6 M"`@("`BJ;FO4"=2`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`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("']_ M('_4U-34U-34U-34R`)+2VX^@XY<,P$K`7:\`)52.T,,#$-#0T-#(4,,.WTU M?2Q_`@)B1)MA*YPG]?51.>2!5EPP8V6;FIIDOJ2L(B(='6G'QY''-8;'-<=I M-;_'Q\>_Q[_'ORPL"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("`@( M"`@("`@("`@("`@("`@("+JRNF$1D)`1Y7`^2Y`_99NSFDL$1#NL'6C!T[6Q ML2(^K"*L(JYR<B8F&B9RLB9R&G)R)KHFNKH:LAI=LAI=&KH:NKHF?7U=PGU] M++I=?71=?2R_+"PL-7TU?;_'OS7'QRQIQS61Q[]I+\?'D2^1D9&1.B\ZD3HZ M.D$Z.CJ1.LJ1.LHZ"`@("`@("`@V;FO4"=3JP3NNKDNJIKY\?%8YG">!5I2K M#1=@4?7U45'>.LIS.M@O;3HZ;<K8V"\ZRLHZD<K*V#HORCHZACK*RLJ1ACJ& M+VE!.CHZ:88Z.B^1:8:1D<=IACK'AL=IQR]I:6G'Q[_'D;_'D;^1,U)V')S> M=C/EH8$W%QRK#1?,E"B<)S=65G";LYI#L;:1QP@("`!A86%N;IJ:,%965E9N M;FX%.Z[(@-.UIWX.TT,=L;8NM:>QB*XB(D,=.UPPFFUMV#P\/',\ECP\<Y8\ MV$5S/#QS<Y9%144\/'.6<W,\/-$\T=T\<SQS/-'=19;=T3S=1=$\T9;=/#P\ MED5%T=%%<Y9%/$5S<VV6ECQS/)8\V'-MV&USRM@\;3QM<]C*V&US;7-MV',Z MV,K8RLK*RI$ZD3K8RB_*.LHZD6DOAH:1D9$Z:2^1D<?'.CHO.H:1:6DZD2_' M:3IIACHZD2_'.L>1:9&1QY&1:3IID3J1D<<Z03II.CJ&.LHZD2^1.I&&ACJ1 MRH:1.I$Z.CK*D3HZD2^1RI'*+SHZRCK*.I$O.H8OAB_*0<K*.LI!D3HZ.D&Z -------- End of part 3 of 14 --------
I hope that this comes off as a somewhat unbiased assesment of WFAN and WIP(I go to school in Philadelphia, and I listen to both stations on a consistant basis.) Now that the fan has Mike Lupica on from 10 to noon, they have a person who can get the big name guests for interviews, and not just of local importance He did have Dave Cheketts and Fred Wilpon on his show, but he had Bob Costas and Magic Johnson on too. Now here are my opinions of the two stations competing talent: Morning show: In my opinion, I think Imus is much better than Bruno, Cataldi, and Morganti, even though I would feel different if Morganti had a better crew of people to work with. To me, WIP tries to copy Imus but make it all sports as a theme. In terms of sports, Imus lacks the blanketing of the airwaves, but he interjects humor and politics into his show. 10 AM to 12 Noon: I think Chuck Cooperstein and Lupica are equal in their abilities to host a radio show, but I think Chuck has the advantage over Lupica in terms of dealing with the caller who is asking about who the local team is going to draft in the sixth round. Lupica and the other hosts on FAN get better interview guests, but I heard the PD of WIP say that they were not interested in interviews with celebrities unless it was a major story. I would consider this even because they are two different styles of host. 12 Noon to 2 PM: At this point, I would have to give a big advantage to Jody McDonald over Len Berman because Lenny has only been on for a couple of weeks. I just think JM has the ability to transcend the "homer" mentality of the Philadelphia fan base. This is most evident when the IGGLES(Philadelphia spelling) play the Cowboys because JM is a huge Dallas fan. Where else can you have people call up and predict a 93-0 score without the egging of the hosts(re:WIP morning 'guys') I do agree that JM was great on the FAN weekend overnight and I miss hearing him over the current crop of rotating hosts. I feel that JM is the best sportstalk host on either station by a good margin. If you are in NY and you can't get WIP, JM does fill in on the weekends sometimes. 2PM to 4PM: This is the time when JM goes up against Francesa and Russo(fatso and froot loops) and I become the most divided in my loyalties. Mike and the dog are very entertaining, but they often go an hour or so without calls or even 10 to 20 minutes without talking about sports. MATD do get great guests and that is the basis for their show, so it is like the 10 to 12 debate. Another plus is the appearances by Mike and Chris on Imus in the Morning, which are often hilarious. 4 PM to 7 PM: MATD go up against Fredericks and Missanelli. I like Mike Missanelli but I just can't stomach Steve Fredericks. I know that SF came from Philly originally, but when he was at the FAN, he was a NY homer as much as he is a Philly homer now. I don't listen to WIP much after 4 PM unless there is a game on that night, but you will see later for the reason. That is why I give the advantage to FAN. 7 PM to Midnight: S&M are on WIP until 8 and then it is the man who makes Eli that calls MATD all the time seem like a novice on charges of racism, G Cobb. This man is so grating on my nerves that if I listen to him for a few minutes I go nuts.(I know that is biased, but listen to his show) On FAN, there is usually a game on, Knicks, Rangers, Mets Jets, or St. John's basketball. If the game is on the west coast, then it is usually Howie Rose. Of course I think dead air would be better than G Cobb on WIP, but WIP does air Sixers and Flyers games during the season. (If this is the sports station, why did they lose the IGGLES to WYSP(home of Howard Stern in Phil.)) During the summer, it is all talk on WIP. Overall, I would have to give the advantage to WFAN, with the exception of 10 to 12, and 2 to 4 where it is even, and 12 to 2 where WIP has the advantage. Rich
[deleted] think: [deleted] ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Let me first say that "to believe that no gods exist" is in fact different than "not believing in a god or gods". I will argue that your latter statement, "I believe that no gods exist" does rest upon faith - that is, if you are making a POSITIVE statement that "no gods exist" (strong atheism) rather than merely saying I don't know and therefore don't believe in them and don't NOT believe in then (weak atheism). Once again, to not believe in God is different than saying I BELIEVE that God does not exist. I still maintain the position, even after reading the FAQs, that strong atheism requires faith. But first let me say the following. We might have a language problem here - in regards to "faith" and "existence". I, as a Christian, maintain that God does not exist. To exist means to have being in space and time. God does not HAVE being - God IS Being. Kierkegaard once said that God does not exist, He is eternal. With this said, I feel it's rather pointless to debate the so called "existence" of God - and that is not what I'm doing here. I believe that God is the source and ground of being. When you say that "god does not exist", I also accept this statement - but we obviously mean two different things by it. However, in what follows I will use the phrase "the existence of God" in it's 'usual sense' - and this is the sense that I think you are using it. I would like a clarification upon what you mean by "the existence of God". We also might differ upon what it means to have faith. Here is what faith 1a: allegiance to duty or a person: LOYALTY b (1): fidelity to one's promises (2): sincerity of intentions 2a (1): belief and trust in and loyalty to God (2): belief in the traditional doctrines of a religion b (1): firm belief in something for which there is no proof ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ (2): complete trust 3: something that is believed esp. with strong conviction; esp: a system ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ of religious beliefs syn see BELIEF One can never prove that God does or does not exist. When you say that you believe God does not exist, and that this is an opinion "based upon observation", I will have to ask "what observtions are you refering to?" There are NO observations - pro or con - that are valid here in establishing a POSITIVE belief. All observations can only point you in a direction - a direction that we might even be predisposed to (by predisposed I mean, for example, people whoes partents "believe in God" also tend to). To actually draw a conclusion about the "existence" or "non-existence" of God requires a leap - and you have made this leap when you actively say "I believe that God does/does not exist". Personally, I think that both statements are misguided. Arguing over the "existence" of God is precisely the wrong way to find Him (and yes, I use "Him" because a personal God is the only viable concept (IMO) - if a person wants to use "She" go ahead. Of course God is neither He nor She - but we have no choice but to anthropomorphise. If you want me to explain myself further I'll be glad to.) And please, if someone does not agree with me - even if they violently disagree - it's in no ones advantage to start name calling. If a person thinks I've misunderstood something in the FAQs, or if they they think I have not read them well enough, just point out to me the error of my ways and I correct the situation. I'm interested in a polite and well thought out discussion.
Well, lets see....I took a class on this last fall, and I have no notes so I'll try to wing it... Here's how I understand it. Remember from stellar evolution that black holes and neutron stars(pulsars) are formed from high mass stars, M(star)=1.4M(sun). High mass stars live fast and burn hard, taking appoximately 10^5-10^7 years before going nova, or supernova. In this time, they don't live long enough to get perturbed out of the galactic plane, so any of these (if assumed to be the sources of GRB's) will be in the plane of the galaxy. Then we take the catalog of bursts that have been recieved from the various satellites around the solar system, (Pioneer Venus has one, either Pion. 10 or 11, GINGA, and of course BATSE) and we do distribution tests on our catalog. These tests all show, that the bursts have an isotropic distribution(evenly spread out in a radial direction), and they show signs of homogeneity, i.e. they do not clump in any one direction. So, unless we are sampling the area inside the disk of the galaxy, we are sampling the UNIVERSE. Not cool, if you want to figure out what the hell caused these things. Now, I suppose you are saying, "Well, we stil only may be sampling from inside the disk." Well, not necessarily. Remember, we have what is more or less an interplanetary network of burst detectors with a baseline that goes waaaay out to beyond Pluto(pioneer 11), so we should be able, with all of our detectors de tect some sort of difference in angle from satellite to satellite. Here's an analogy: You see a plane overhead. You measure the angle of the plane from the origin of your arbitrary coordinate system. One of your friends a mile away sees the same plane, and measures the angle from the zero point of his arbitrary system, which is the same as yours. The two angles are different, and you should be able to triangulate the position of your burst, and maybe find a source. To my knowledge, no one has been able to do this. I should throw in why halo, and corona models don't work, also. As I said before, looking at the possible astrophysics of the bursts, (short timescales, high energy) black holes, and pulsars exhibit much of this type of behavior. If this is the case, as I said before, these stars seem to be bound to the disk of the galaxy, especially the most energetic of the these sources. When you look at a simulated model, where the bursts are confined to the disk, but you sample out to large distances, say 750 mpc, you should definitely see not only an anisotropy towards you in all direction, but a clumping of sources in the direction of the galactic center. As I said before, there is none of these characteristics.
The article that follows was taken from the Wednesday, April 14, 1993 issue of USA Today ("Drug Use Up Among U.S. eighth-graders" by Mike Snider, p. 6D). A new national survey says drugs are easier to get, more teens are using them and fewer deem drug use as risky. For the last two years, government officials have trumpeted results from the National High School Survey as signs that the drug war is being won. But this year, officials are retreating - drug use by eighth-graders has risen, according to the survey of 50,000 students nationwide. Possible reason for the increase: more experimentation. Why? If drug use dropped during the '80s, eventually some students will have fewer "drug-using contemporaries" who act as examples of substance abuse's drawbacks, says social psychologist Lloyd Johnston, one of the survey authors. Each new wave of youths "must be given the knowledge, skills and motivation to resist using these drugs," Johnston says. This type of resurgence "is possible," says Eileen Shiff, author of "Experts Advise Parents" (Delta, $14.95). But that's not the issue, she says. The prevalence of alcohol and drugs among teens today could result in more alcoholic adults decades from now. Aggravating the problem: baby boomer parents - who experimented with drugs and alcohol as teens - trying to be friends, not parents, to their children. "I've even seen parents serving kegs of beer" to their underage kids and friends, Shiff says. For a recent graduation, Shiff and other parents organized an all-night, "lock-in" party where no booze or drugs were allowed. "We need to fulfill that parental role, otherwise the peer group takes over," she says. Officials may "talk about the war on drugs, but they really haven't done anything that I've seen," says Suzanne Linkous, Scottsdale, Ariz., 16, a volunteer who talks with teens about drugs, dating and other issues on a peer counseling and suicide hot line. Linkous, a member of USA Today's Teen Panel, says "there's always going to be experimentation" with drugs. A real war on drugs could be waged "education-wise," she says. But "some don't want to give kids the facts. They think it will give them ideas; it's the same with birth control. I think you should give the kids the information or have it accessible" through classes, pamphlets and speakers, she says. Education efforts need to start as soon as kids get in school - in kindergarten, says Dallas Owens, 17, teen panelist from Miami Shores, Fla. "I remember in kindergarten, I used to see (drugs). I think kids in the 10th and 12th grades have already made up their minds (about using drugs)," he says. Scare tactics in public service announcements aren't working; only one commercial has gotten it right, he says. The commercial opens with two "good-looking girls" in the restroom talking about having no prom date. Then they take a hit off a joint. "That hits home because it's not attractive," he says. "You can't be doing drugs if you want somebody to like you." Adolescents' choices Drugs used by eighth graders in the last month: Estimated, per 100 students 1991 1992 Pct. chg. Alcohol 25.1 26.1 +4% Cigarettes 14.3 15.5 +8% Marijuana 3.2 3.7 +16% Amphetamines 2.6 3.3 +27% LSD 0.6 0.9 +50% Cocaine 0.5 0.7 +40% Crack 0.3 0.5 +67% Source: University of Michigan Institute for Social Research, 1993 report Scott Kennedy, Brewer and Patriot
We are getting a memory fault and a core dump whenever we end a Motif session under Ultrix 4.3, running on a DEC 5000/240. An examintion of the core file leads us to believe it's from getcons. Does anyone know what this is all about? marc
So does that mean that anyone who is a Christian to avoid Hell isn't really a Christian at all? It sounds like it to me. Mit Liebe in Christus, Martyn R. Mellodew. (u0mrm@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Martyn R. Mellodew, | E-mail: u0mrm@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk Department of Applied Mathematics | ARPA/Internet: u0mrm@csc.liv.ac.uk and Theoretical Physics, | JANET: u0mrm@uk.ac.liv.csc The University of Liverpool, | P.O. Box 147, | Liverpool, | England, | L69 9BX. | `Dubito ergo Deus est.'
Because that would contradict your religious beliefs; therefore, you feel more comfortable simply accusing his sincerity, so you will not have to critically examine your religious beliefs.
(quoting someone else here) Yeah! The algorithm is classified because a military contract (or similar government equivalent to military) has been let for this "proprietary" design that the Feds say that NSA developed. Is there a patent? Is that patent publicly available? My betting is that that too is classified. If the algorithm were made public, or reverse-engineered, it would compromise not only the goal of Justice of being able to read every chip users cypto-data but would reduce profits for the selected chip maker. Wouldn't that just be too bad?
burning yourself alive seems a rough way to go, given the waco bunch had other choices. but it reminded me of the russian old-believers who, thinking the antichrist was coming in 1666, grew frantic when Peter the Great started westernizing Russia and reforming the Russian Church a few years later. They locked themselves in their churches and burned themselves alive by the thousands. are there other cases of apocalypse-obsessed christians resorting to self-imolation? is there a history of precedents?
I need to know the Pins to connect to make a loopback connector for a serial port so I can build one. The loopback connector is used to test the serial port. Thanks for any help.
: ..continuing on my build problems, I got stuck here build xterm... : : gcc -fpcc-struct-return -o xterm main.o input.o charproc.o cursor.o util.o tabs.o screen.o scrollbar.o button.o Tekproc.o misc.o VTPrsTbl.o TekPrsTbl.o data.o menu.o -O2 -R/usr/wgep/X11R5.sos5/lib${LD_RUN_PATH+\:$LD_RUN_PATH} -L../.././lib/Xaw -lXaw -L../.././lib/Xmu -lXmu -L../.././lib/Xt -lXt -L../.././extensions/lib -lXext -L../.././lib/X -lX11 -L/usr/wgep/X11R5.sos5/lib -lsocket -lnsl -ltermcap : Undefined first referenced : symbol in file : index /usr/ucblib/libtermcap.a(termcap.o) : rindex /usr/ucblib/libtermcap.a(termcap.o) : ld: fatal: Symbol referencing errors. No output written to xterm : *** Error code 1 : make: Fatal error: Command failed for target `xterm' : : Any clues for help? Either: * Add -lucb -lelf to the list or * #define index() and rindex() to strchr() and strrchr() respectively. Both use same args. Former are bsd, latter are SysV.
It depends on which uniforms you are talking about. For the last couple of years I believe Toronto and Pittsburgh has used the same uniforms, or at least very similar. The home jerseys had the team nick name (Blue Jays or Pirates), but the road jerseys had the name of the city (Toronto or Pittsburgh). I believe this is the way most teams design their uniforms.
I can tell you that when AMSAT launched some birds along a Spot satellite (French), that during installation of some instruments on Spot 2, there heavily armed legionaires who had a `take no prisoners' look on there faces. Spot satellites are completely capable of doing some very good on orbit surveillance. BMc --
(Deletion) (Deletion) An universe it has created. By the way, can you tell me why it is less tyrannic to let one of one's own creatures do what it likes to others? By your definitions, your god has created Satan with full knowledge what would happen - including every choice of Satan. Can you explain us what Free Will is, and how it goes along with omniscience? Didn't your god know everything that would happen even before it created the world? Why is it concerned about being a tyrant when noone would care if everything was fine for them? That the whole idea comes from the possibility to abuse power, something your god introduced according to your description?
I suspect that you think that this is less lethal than the typical "assault weapon". You are wrong. Compared to what most criminals use, a 9mm with military ammo (FMJs), or a military rifle (use is extremely rare), .223 or 7.62mm with military ammo (FMJs), the .32 H&R magnum with "civie" bullets is more lethal. Most of the arms which criminals (and the military) use are among the least lethal arms in existance.
That is an idea.. The most efficient moon habitat.. also the idea of how to get the people off the moon once the prize was won.. Also the idea of how to rescue someone who is "dying" on the moon. Maybe have a area where they can all "see" each other, and can help each other if something happens.. I liek the idea of one prize for the first moon landing and return, by a non-governmental body.. Also the idea of then having a moon habitat race.. I know we need to do somthing to get people involved.. Eccentric millionaire/billionaire would be nice.. We see how old Ross feels about it.. After all it would be a great promotional thing and a way to show he does care about commericalization and the people.. Will try to broach the subject to him.. Moonbase on the cheap is a good idea.. NASA and friends seem to take to much time and give us to expensive stuff that of late does not work (hubble and such). Basically what is the difference between a $1mil peice of junk and a multi $1mil piece of junk.. I know junk..
Who knows in this legal climate, but there is tremendous legal precendent for forcibly quarantining TB patients in sanitariums. 100 yrs ago it was done all the time. It has been done sporadically all along in patients who won't take their medicine. If you have TB you may find yourself under surveilence of the Public Health Department and you may find they have the legal power to insist you make your clinic visits. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
<Dear Xperts: < < Here's my problem: I am designing several related X <applications (each one is a separate executable) and I'd like <to build a single control window that would allow the user to <access each application (instead of having to locate the correct <icon). The Control Window would contain a button for each <application and by pressing it, the application's main window <would appear. I would also like to use the application's button <as a color status indicator. Has anyone done this or have any <good ideas?? Because these are all separate executables this <seems like a communications nightmare to me, but maybe I'm <wrong. I'd appreciate any ideas! I'm using X11R5 and Motif 1.2.1. < <Thanks, <dbohdal@jaguar.ess.harris.com I can think of two different methods that you could try. 1) use fork and execv 2) use the "system" called in your program. I'm assuming that you're running under the Unix OS of course.
How about "firearm related." Texas is unusual in this regard. It would be nice to reduce them both, though. As Texas doesn't appear to have an murder rate that much higher than the national average, I would expect it is a result of a much higher suicide rate. Be nice if you didn't have to suffer at all. Here's where we run into a problem. I am perfectly willing to have government regulation on something which is likely to cause others harm. What we're discussing, though, is the extreme regulation of a large group in order to target a small group, and I don't think that's appropriate. Does this, then, justify anything? At some point you have to draw a line (at least to my way of thinking) where the government must have something a little more substantial than a set of percentages with which to punish an individual. Where do *you* draw the line? Or is there one? Virginia. It passed. Does it? Cute analogy. The U.S. doesn't treat drunk driving like a serious crime. However, we also don't confiscate cars of people who drink. We also don't confiscate *all* cars because some people drink and drive. It's the core of the legal system that in order to punish an individual (and I'd call property confiscation a punishment) you must have evidence against that individual. That is, it isn't enough to show that the majority of people convicted of murder are white in order to convict a particular white guy of murder. Huh?
: Oh, yeah? Well---*I* know of .... Anyways, cannibalism is much more commmon than those who feel that it is wrong (and then point out that the fact that western civilisation doesn't do it is PROOF positive that we are more advanced) would have us believe. Cannibalism is often used in funeral ceremonies as a way of keeping the deceased loved one alive. Many other cultures (including many American Indian cultures) eat/ate the flesh of slain enemies, often as a way of showing respect for the valor of the departed. Hearts are often favored for this, as it contains the spirit. Have you ever read or seen "Alive", which is the story of the Argentinian boys soccer team that crashed in the Andes and then ate the bodies of those who died in order to survive? Finger lickin good. How about the Twighlight Zone episode "To Serve Man"? If you want more info on this, a good place to start is on sci.anthropology Now send me $20 and eat my flesh,
You know, I was reading 18 U.S.C. 922 and something just did not make sence and I was wondering if someone could help me out. Say U.S.C. 922 : (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), it shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or possess a machinegun. Well I got to looking in my law dictionary and I found that a "person" might also be an artificial entity that is created by government and has no rights under the federal constitution. So, what I don't understand is how a statute like 922 can be enforced on an individual. So someone tell me how my government can tell me what I can or cannot possess. Just passing a law does not make it LAW. Everyone knows that laws are constitional until it goes to court. So, has it ever gone to court, not just your run of the mill "Ok I had it I am guilty, put me in jail" Has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to possess and was told by the Supreme Court that they didn't have that right?
Cool quote. Better watch it. The theists will jump on you for that... :-) Nanci
I don't think such a Canada is any more "culturally similar" to the United States than England. In terms of laws regarding individual rights, restrictions on police searches, etc... (all closely related to crime) Canadian laws parallel England's and differ greatly from those of the United States. Actually, they do not have "roughly the same... urban economy", and extremely different ethnic composition. However, if you account for economic and ethnic differences, the difference disappears completely: Seattle's minorities are predominatly poor, while Vancouver's are middle or upper class. The rates for whites in both cities were found to be identicle, while the rate for poor, Seattle minorities was almost three times as great as for the well-to-do minorities of Vancouver. The pattern seems to be one of poverty and race relations, not one of gun control. That is a gross distortion: "Self-defense" does not mean killing the attacker. There were 21 cases of civilians killing their attacker in self-defence. But such cases represent less that 0.5% of the crimes prevented by armed self-defence; for every case you cite, there were over 200 other cases of self-defence where the crime was prevented but the attacker was not killed. (0.5%, by the way, is the most conservative possible figure, based on the National Crime Survey's estimate of 80,000 crimes prevented by armed self-defence each year. Most other studies on the subject put the figure at 500,000 to 600,000. Those figures would imply less than 0.08% of sucessful self-defences involve killing the attacker.) So, more correctly, there over 4000 (possibly as many as 25,000) cases of civilians acting in self-defence, only 21 of which resulted in the death of the attacker. This is a significant factor, in comparison to the 592 homicides. If memory serves, homicides make up approximately 1% of the violent crimes the study considered, so the fair comparison would be 40 - 250 homicides prevented and 592 homicides. Clearly, the study can not be close to accurate, since it ignored these cases of self-defence.
I responded to Jim's other articles today, but I see that I neglected to respond to this one. I wouldn't want him to think me a hypocrite for not responding to *every* stupid article on t.r.m. [dictionary definitions of "not" "disagree" and "agree" deleted] Oh, but I'm weary of trying to wade through Jim's repertoire of red herrings and smoke screens. Let's see what we get when we run all four articles posted by Jim today through the 'discord' filter (a Markov chain program that Steve Lamont was kind enough to send me): Taking action? A white geese be held as an accomplice to be held as a decision upon the door A black and white goose waddles past the eyes of the door. Hits it with the confidence interval for that individual is held responsible for that, that individual may be held as a getaway car may be held as an uncountably large number of the driver of something and agree. A black goose waddles past the person imprisoned? White goose waddles past the confidence interval for the population of geese be axed, fine. And white goose waddles past the door. Does running Jim's articles through 'discord' make them more coherent? Less coherent? Or has 'discord' turned Jim's articles into an angst-ridden poem about making choices in a world filled with uncertainty, yet being held responsible for the choices we make? Do the geese symbolize an inner frustration with ambiguity, a desire that everything be black and white, with no shades of gray? Does the "getaway car" tell us that to try to renounce the existential nature of our being is not to "get away" from responsibility for our actions, but rather to take the role of the passive accomplice, the "driver" of the getaway car, as it were? Does the juxtaposition of man and machine, car and driver, reveal a subtext: an internal conflict between determinism and moral responsibility? Or am I reading too much into a collaboration between Jim and a random number generator?
Yeah, of course... The term 'mach banding' was not the correct one, it should've been 'color quantization effect'. Although a bad color quantization effect could result in some visible mach-bands on a picture that was smooth before it was quantizised.
I can not believe the way this thread on candida(yeast) has progressed. Steve Dyer and I have been exchanging words over the same topic in Sci. Med. Nutrition when he displayed his typical reserve and attacked a women poster for being treated by a liscenced physician for a disease that did not exist. Calling this physician a quack was reprehensible Steve and I see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. Let me tell you who the quacks really are, these are the physicans who have no idea how the human body interacts with it's environment and how that balance can be altered by diet and antibiotics. These are the physicians who dismiss their patients with difficult symptomatology and make them go from doctor to doctor to find relief(like Elaine in Sci. Med. Nutrition) and then when they find one that solves their problem, the rest start yelling quack. Could it just be professional jealousy? I couldn't help Elaine or Jon but somebody else did. Could they know more than Me? No way, they must be a quack. I've been teaching a human nutrition course for Medical students for over ten years now and guess who the most receptive students are? Those that were raised on farms and saw first-hand the effect of diet on the health of their farm animals and those students who had made a dramatic diet change prior to entering medical school(switched to the vegan diet). Typically, this is about 1/3 of my class of 90 students. Those not interested in nutrition either tune me out or just stop coming to class. That's okay because I know that some of what I'm teaching is going to stick and there will be at least a few "enlightened" physicians practicing in the U.S. It's really too bad that most U.S. medical schools don't cover nutrition because if they did, candida would not be viewed as a non-disease by so many in the medical profession. In animal husbandry, an animal is reinnoculated with "good" bacteria after antibiotics are stopped. Medicine has decided that since humans do not have a ruminant stomach, no such reinnoculation with "good" bacteria is needed after coming off a braod spectrum antibiotic. Humans have all kinds of different organisms living in the GI system(mouth, stomach, small and large intestine), sinuses, vagina and on the skin. These are nonpathogenic because they do not cause disease in people unless the immune system is compromised. They are also called nonpathogens because unlike the pathogenic organisms that cause human disease, they do not produce toxins as they live out their merry existence in and on our body. But any of these organisms will be considered pathogenic if it manages to take up residence within the body. A poor mucus membrane barrier can let this happen and vitamin A is mainly responsible for setting up this barrier. Steve got real upset with Elaine's doctor because he was using anti-fungals and vitamin A for her GI problems. If Steve really understoood what vitamin A does in the body, he would not(or at least should not) be calling Elaine's doctor a quack. Here is a brief primer on yeast. Yeast infections, as they are commonly called, are not truely caused by yeasts. The most common organism responsible for this type of infection is Candida albicans or Monilia which is actually a yeast-like fungus. An infection caused by this organism is called candidiasis. Candidiasis is a very rare occurance because, like an E. Coli infection, it requires that the host immune system be severly depressed. Candida is frequently found on the skin and all of the mucous membranes of normal healthy people and it rarely becomes a problem unless some predisposing factor is present such as a high blood glucose level(diabetes) or an oral course of antibiotics has been used. In diabetics, their secretions contain much higher amounts of glucose. Candida, unlike bacteria, is very limited in it's food(fuel) selection. Without glucose, it can not grow, it just barely survives. If it gets access to a lot of glucose, it blooms and over rides the other organisms living with it in the sinuses, GI tract or vagina. In diabetics, skin lesions can also foster a good bloom site for these little buggers. The bloom is usually just a minor irritant in most people but some people do really develop a bad inflammatory process at the mucus membrane or skin bloom site. Whether this is an allergic like reaction to the candida or not isn't certain. When the bloom is in the vagina or on the skin, it can be easliy seen and some doctors do then try to "treat" it. If it's internal, only symptoms can be used and these symptoms are pretty nondiscript. Candida is kept in check in most people by the normal bacterial flora in the sinuses, the GI tract(mouth, stomach and intestines) and in the vaginal tract which compete with it for food. The human immune system ususally does not bother itself with these(nonpathogenic organisms) unless they broach the mucus membrane "barrier". If they do, an inflammatory response will be set up. Most Americans are not getting enough vitamin A from their diets. About 30% of all American's die with less Vitamin A than they were born with(U.S. autopsy studies). While this low level of vitamin A does not cause pathology(blindness) it does impair the mucus membrane barrier system. This would then be a predisposing factor for a strong inflammatory response after a candida bloom. While diabetics can suffer from a candida "bloom" the most common cause of this type of bloom is the use of broad spectrum antibiotics which knock down many different kinds of bacteria in the body and remove the main competition for candida as far as food is concerned. While drugs are available to handle candida, many patients find that their doctor will not use them unless there is evidence of a systemic infection. The toxicity of the anti-fungal drugs does warrant some caution. But if the GI or sinus inflammation is suspected to be candida(and recent use of a broad spectrum antibiotic is the smoking gun), then anti-fungal use should be approrpriate just as the anti-fungal creams are an appropriate treatment for recurring vaginal yeast infections, in spite of what Mr. Steve Dyer says. But even in patients being given the anti-fungals, the irritation caused by the excessive candida bloom in the sinus, GI tract or the vagina tends to return after drug treatment is discontinued unless the underlying cause of the problem is addressed(lack of a "good" bacterial flora in the body and/or poor mucus membrane barrier). Lactobacillus acidophilus is the most effective therapy for candida overgrowth. From it's name, it is an acid loving organism and it sets up an acidic condition were it grows. Candida can not grow very well in an acidic environment. In the vagina, L. acidophilius is the predominate bacteria(unless you are hit with broad spectrum antibiotics). In the GI system, the ano-rectal region seems to be a particularly good reservoir for candida and the use of pantyhose by many women creates a very favorable environment around the rectum for transfer(through moisture and humidity) of candida to the vaginal tract. One of the most effctive ways to minimmize this transfer is to wear undyed cotton underwear. If the bloom occurs in the anal area, the burning, swelling, pain and even blood discharge make many patients think that they have hemorroids. If the bloom manages to move further up the GI tract, very diffuse symptomatology occurs(abdominal discomfort and blood in the stool). This positive stool for occult blood is what sent Elaine to her family doctor in the first place. After extensive testing, he told her that there was nothing wrong but her gut still hurt. On to another doctor, and so on. Richard Kaplan has told me throiugh e-mail that he considers occult blood tests in stool specimens to be a waste of time and money because of the very large number of false positives(candida blooms guys?). If my gut hurt me on a constant basis, I would want it fixed. Yes it's nice to know that I don't have colon cancer but what then is causing my distress? When I finally find a doctor who treats me and gets me 90% better, Steve Dyer calls him a quack. Candida prefers a slightly alkaline environment while bacteria tend to prefer a slightly acidic environment. The vagina becomes alkaline during a woman's period and this is often when candida blooms in the vagina. Vinegar and water douches are the best way of dealing with vaginal problems. Many women have also gotten relief from the introduction of Lactobacillus directly into the vaginal tract(I would want to be sure of the purity of the product before trying this). My wife had this vagina problem after going on birth control pills and searched for over a year until she found a gynocologist who solved the problem rather than just writting scripts for anti-fungal creams. This was a woman gynocologist who had had the same problem(recurring vaginal yeast infections). This M.D. did some digging and came up with an acetic acid and L. Acidophilis douche which she used in your office to keep it sterile. After three treatments, sex returned to our marraige. I have often wondered what an M.D. with chronic GI distress or sinus problems would do about the problem that he tells his patients is a non-existent syndrome. The nonpathogenic bacteria L. acidophilus is an acid producing bacteria which is the most common bacteria found in the vaginal tract of healthy women. If taken orally, it can also become a major bacteria in the gut. Through aresol sprays, it has also been used to innoculate the sinus membranes. But before this innoculation occurs, the mucus membrane barrier system needs to be strengthened. This is accomplished by vitamin A, vitamin C and some of the B-complex vitamins. Diet surveys repeatedly show that Americans are not getting enough B6 and folate. These are probably the segement of the population that will have the greatest problem with this non-existent disorder(candida blooms after antibiotic therapy). Some of the above material was obtained from "Natural Healing" by Mark Bricklin, Published by Rodale press, as well as notes from my human nutrition course. I will be posting a discussion of vitamin A sometime in the future, along with reference citings to point out the extremely important role that vitamin A plays in the mucus membrane defense system in the body and why vitamin A should be effective in dealing with candida blooms. Another effective dietary treatment is to restrict carbohydrate intake during the treatment phase, this is especially important if the GI system is involved. If candida can not get glucose, it's not going to out grow the bacteria and you then give bacteria, which can use amino acids and fatty acids for energy, a chance to take over and keep the candida in check once carbohydrate is returned to the gut. If Steve and some of the other nay-sayers want to jump all over this post, fine. I jumped all over Steve in Sci. Med. Nutrition because he verbably accosted a poster who was seeking advice about her doctor's use of vitamin A and anti-fungals for a candida bloom in her gut. People seeking advice from newsnet should not be treated this way. Those of us giving of our time and knowledge can slug it out to our heart's content. If you saved your venom for me Steve and left the helpless posters who are timidly seeking help alone, I wouldn't have a problem with your behavior. Martin Banschbach, Ph.D. Professor of Biochemistry and Chairman Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology OSU College of Osteopathic Medicine 1111 West 17th St. Tulsa, Ok. 74107
They may collect the data, but making sense of it is another matter. On sci.crypt I'm a graduate CS major (with strong math background) and experienced programmer taking a cryptology course. (<< keyword for alleged NSA filters). On sci.skeptic I'm an ex-physics major who's a new-age flake, talking about silly things like how a person's expectations colors what he sees. On talk.religion.newage I'm a physics geek who enjoys squashing interesting idea with WASP science, although I do write occasional posts showing a minimal knowledge of Zen, mythology, etc. I could go on, but I'm sure you see my point. I'm a single person, but I react differently on different groups (admittedly, in part because I'm a contrarian you always shouts "but, on the other hand..."). On top of that, I _loath_ certainty and have taken public positions in the past for no reason other than to challenge "conventional wisdom". I wish them luck in figuring out who "I" am based on that information. (They can probably figure out I'm liberal, with a technical degree but humanistic interests, from a common thread throughout my posts. But that describes a fair portion of the users of Internet).
By law, they would not be allowed to do that anyhow. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Make sure to take the Sutcliff, Fisk, ect. factor into account.
Not true. I am required to have insurance by law. the method of collection effectively makes it a tax. Well here we have the right hoping for more selfish bastards. Pity they don't look at what 12 years of the Regan/Bush "selfish Bastard" ecconomy has done to the country. Elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselves, thats why they are selfish bastards. Bush and Regan gave tax breaks for the ultra rich and paid for them by borrowing against the incomes of the middle class.
Consider this: The BDs had more than one lamp; The tanks made more than one hole in the building. Did anyone else notice on the video that it appeared that wherever there was smoke coming out of the building, there was a tank nearby? The fact that it appears that fires started in several places does not rule out anything. Also, where are these several witnesses? The way I heard it (from the FBI spokesman on CNN) the "witnesses" were all people driving the tanks. Too bad nothing will happen to her or him. The FBI and the media have done their job well.
Preliminary negotiations started already, I believe. Though the word is that they are going slooooooooooooooooooooooowly.
Robert, You have probably solved your problem by now. Anyway, if you can get your hands on QA Plus (version 4.21, maybe others as well), it will let you write the COMPAQ CMOS settings. I know because I just did it. I was just about to search for such a diagnostic disk when my brother-in-law fixed an old DESKPRO with it. You might try the simtel mirror FTP sites.
Anybody use CD Speedway out there? Is it as good as they say? I hate waiting around for my CD to finish loading the next level in WC and the such. How much memory does it eat up?
I heard that Eli is selling the team to a group in Cinninati. This would help so that the O's could make some real free agent signings in the offseason. Training Camp reports that everything is pretty positive right now. The backup catcher postion will be a showdown between Tackett and Parent although I would prefer Parent. #1 Draft Pick Jeff Hammonds may be coming up faster in the O's hierarchy of the minors faster than expected. Mike Flanagan is trying for another comeback. Big Ben is being defended by coaches saying that while the homers given up were an awful lot, most came in the beginning of the season and he really improved the second half. This may be Ben's year. I feel that while this may not be Mussina's Cy Young year, he will be able to pitch the entire season without periods of fatigue like last year around August. I really hope Baines can provide the RF support the O's need. Orsulak was decent but I had hoped that Chito Martinez could learn defense better and play like he did in '91. The O's right now don't have many left-handed hitters. Anderson proving last year was no fluke and Cal's return to his averages would be big plusses in a drive for the pennant. The rotation should be Sutcliffe, Mussina, McDonald, Rhodes, ?????. Olson is an interesting case. Will he strike out the side or load the bases and then get three pop outs? You never know. The way I see the AL East this year (with personal biases mixed in) Baltimore New York Toronto Milwaukee Cleveland Boston Detroit (The top 4 are the only true contenders in my mind. One of these 4 will definitely win the division unless it snows in Hell/Maryland :). I feel that this Baltimore's season to finally put everything together.) __________________________________________________________________________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RADIOSITY SOURCES WANTED !!! ============================ When I read the comp.graphics group, I never found something about radiosity. Is there anybody interested in out there? I would be glad to hear from somebody. I am looking for source-code for the radiosity-method. I have already read common literature, e. g.Foley ... . I think little examples could help me to understand how radiosity works. Common languages ( C, C++, Pascal) prefered. I hope you will help me!
No, there's no evidence that would convince any but the most credulous. The "evidence" is identical to the sort of evidence that has been used to justify all sorts of quack treatments for quack diseases in the past. I like the implication here. It must not be that the quacks making millions off such "diseases" are biased -- rather that those who doubt their existence don't understand the real world. It seems easy to picture a 19th centure snake oil salesman saying the same thing. However, I have been in the trenches long enough to have seen multiple quack diseases rise and fall in popularity. "Systemic yeast syndome" seems to be making a resurgence (it had fallen off a few years ago). There will be new such "diseases" I'm sure with best-selling books and expensive therapies. Well this, of course, is convincing. I guess I'd better start diagnosing any illnesses that people want so that I can keep my lips.
The recent rise of nostalgia in this group, combined with the incredible level of utter bullshit, has prompted me to comb through my archives and pull out some of "The Best of Alt.Atheism" for your reading pleasure. I'll post a couple of these a day unless group concensus demands that I stop, or I run out of good material. I haven't been particularly careful in the past about saving attributions. I think the following comes from John A. Johnson, but someone correct me if I'm wrong. This is probably the longest of my entire collection. ________________________________________________________ So that the Prophecy be Fulfilled * * * In considering the Christian religion, and judging it according to its claims, it is important to look at its claims at fulfilling earlier Jewish prophecy. The scribe Matthew is perhaps the most eager to draw out what he thinks are prophetic answers in the career of Jesus of Nazareth. As you will see, Matthew's main strategy is to take various Old Testament passages, often not even about the promised Messiah, and apply them to the circumstances in the New Testament. We must also bear in mind the question of the authenticity of the accounts. Since the gospels were written at least 35 years after Jesus was executed, we do not know how much happened exactly as stated. But, for purposes of analysis, we will take particular claims at face value. Immanuel: We begin, of course, at the beginning. (Mt 1.21-22): "[Mary] will bear a son, and you, Joseph, will name him 'Jesus' (which means G'd is salvation), for he will save his people from their sins." All this happened to fulfil what the lord had spoken by a prophet: [Isaiah 7.1-16]: In the days of Ahaz (c. 750 BCE), king of Judah, Rezin of Syria and Pekah of Israel made war on Jerusalem (capitol of Judah), but could not quite conquer it. When the house of David (i.e. Ahaz and his court in Judah) were told of this, ...its heart and the heart of its people shook... And, the lord G'd said to Isaiah, "go to meet with Ahaz..." ...And the lord spoke to Ahaz (through prophet Isaiah, naturally) saying, "Ask a sign of G'd your lord. It can be as deep as Sheol or as high as heaven." But, Ahaz said, "I won't ask; I will not put the lord to a test." Then (Isaiah) said, "Hear then, O house of David. Is it not enough for you to weary men, that you must weary my god too? Therefore, the lord himself will give you a sign: Behold, a young woman is with child and will bear a son, and name him "Immanuel," which means, "G'd is with us." He will eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse evil and choose good. For, before the child knows how to refuse evil and choose good, the land of the two kings you dread will have been deserted... Matthew homes in on just the sentence that is in italics. Further, he the Hebrew word "almah," (young woman), as specifically, "virgin." But, this is not a prophecy about the Messiah. It is not a prophecy about an event to happen 750 years later. It is not a prophecy about a virgin (bethulah) mother. In short, it not about Jesus. Matthew has made use of a verse out of context, and tries to make it fit the specific case of Mary. It should be noted that if we want to read the prophecy in a general manner, a very general one, it can be made to fit Mary. Mary, virgin or not, was indeed a young woman with child. Of course, the fit is shady and has problems. Jesus, while thought of by later Christians to be G'd walking among men, was never called by the name, Immanuel. If Christianity wished to claim this prophecy for Jesus, it becomes at best a cut-and-paste prophecy... a second class prophecy. Not too convincing. Egypt: After Jesus's birth in Bethlehem, Matthew tells about a quick (and elsewhere unmentioned) excursion to Egypt, as if he wishes to liken Jesus to Moses. This was done to escape an alleged infanticidal rampage of the king, Herod. [Mt 2.15] ...and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfil what the lord had spoken: "Out of Egypt I have cal-led my son." What the lord really said was this. [Hosea 11.1] When Israel was a child, I loved him. And, out of Egypt I called my son. The more I called them (my people), the more they went from me; they kept sacrificing to the Ba'als, and kept burning incense to idols. Matthew conveniently omits the rest of Hosea's oracle. But, it was indeed Israel that, once called out of Egypt, wanted to return. This is history. Jesus is certainly not being spoken of here. And, if we are to draw some kind of parallel here, we wind up with a Jesus that flees and resists G'd. Again, this prophecy is just not as convincing as Matthew probably had hoped. Rachel Weeps: While Jesus is off vacationing in Egypt, Matthew says that King Herod sought to kill him, and thus ordered the executions of all young male children. Matthew then writes, [Mt 2.17-18] By this, that which was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled: "A voice was heard in Ramah, wailing and loud lamentation-- Rachel weeping for her children; she refused to be consoled, because they were no more." The reference is to a passage in Jeremiah 31.15, referring to the carrying off of Israel into exile by Sargon (of Assyria) in 722 BCE. Rachel, the ancestor of the major tribes of Israel, Ephraim, and Manasseh, is said to weep for her descendants who are "no more." It is metaphorical, of course, since Rachel lived and dies before the Hebrews were even in the Egyptian exile. It is interesting to note that it was Leah, not Rachel, who was the ancestor of the Judeans (the land where Jesus and Bethlehem were). If anyone should do weeping for her "children," it is Leah. The only connexion that Rachel has with Bethlehem is that the legends have it that she was buried north of the city, "on the way to Ephrath, (Bethlehem)." As for Herod and his infanticide, it is rather unlikely that such an event actually occurred. One never knows, but the event is not mentioned or alluded to anywhere else in the Bible, nor is it mentioned in any of the secular records of the time. Herod was particularly unliked in his reign, and many far less evil deeds of Herod were carefully recorded. This might be a prime example of how events were added to Jesus's life to enhance the message of the church's gospel. Because of the whole story's similarity to the tale of the infant Moses in Egypt, it is highly likely that it is a device set up by Matthew to add prophetic, yet artificial, approval of Jesus. It is not surprising that Matthew conveniently neglects to mention the rest of the Jeremiah quote. The "children" the prophet speaks of are not dead, but exiled in the Assyrian Empire. G'd comforts the weeping Rachel, saying that the children will be returned-- he will gather them back together. Of course, this would not suit Matthew's purpose, as the children he speaks of are dead for good. Again, the "prophecy" Matthew sets up is not even that, and to anyone who bothers to check it out, is not too convincing. The Nazarene: We do not even have to go to the next chapter to find another Matthean prophecy. After leaving Egypt, Joseph & wife take the infant Jesus to live in the city of Nazareth, [Mt 2.23] ...that what was spoken of by the prophets might be fulfilled, "He shall be called a Nazarene." First thing we notice is that Matthew does not mention the name of the prophet(s) this time. Second, we have to ask who "He" is. There are no Messianic prophecies speaking of a Nazarene. Worse, there are no prophecies, period, mentioning a Nazarene. Still worse, there are no Nazarenes mentioned in the Old Testament at all. In the book of Judges, an angel tells Samson's mother that she will, [Judges 13.5] "...conceive and bear a son. No razor shall tough his head, for he will be a Nazirite to his god from the day of his birth. He will deliver Israel from the hands of the Philistines." This is of course not a prophecy of Jesus, or the messiah of G'd. But, it is the best that can be found. Obviously, Matthew has begun to go overboard in cut-and-paste prophecies, in that he is simple making them up now. Bearing our Diseases: Jesus next goes around healing people of physical illnesses and disabilities. [Mt 8.17] This was to fulfil what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, "He took our infirmities and bore our diseases." As expected, the verse quoted in Isaiah is quoted out of context, and a few words are skewed to fit the Christian scheme. We have, [Is 53.4] Surely he, [the suffering servant], has borne our sickness, and carried our pains. From a reading of the surrounding passages in Isaiah, we know that the prophet is speaking in present tense of the collective nation of Israel, Jehovah's chosen servant and people. He speaks to the Israelites suffering in exile, in the voice of the gentile nations that look upon it. This image is deeply ingrained in Jewish identity --an image of a chastised, yet cherished, Israel as the instrument of the nations' salvation by G'd. The verses speak of Israel taking on the sicknesses which are the literal and metaphorical manifestations of guilt and discipline. They do not speak of a "servant" going around and healing people. Notice that the servant in Isaiah takes on the sicknesses and pains of the nations (and individual Jews). Jesus, as we all know, did not take the diseases onto himself. The verses here in Isaiah are not a prophecy of something to come, but rather something that had already happened. While it is believed that Jesus took on the eternal punishment of hell, he did not bear the illnesses he healed. So, while someone might want to say that, figuratively, Jesus reenacted the deeds of Israel in his spiritual atonement, he has to admit that Matthew's parallel misses where he intended it to have its effect. Silent Messiah: Upon healing multitudes of commoners, it is said that Jesus ordered them to keep quiet, presumable so that he wouldn't arouse the attention of the local rulers. [Mt 12.15-21] This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. "Behold my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved, with whom my soul is pleased. I will put my spirit on him, and he will announce justice to the Gentiles. He will not wrangle or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. He will not break a bruised reed or quench a smoldering wick until he brings justice to victory, and the gentiles will hope in his name." The Isaiah passage quoted reads, [Is 42.1-4] Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit on him, and he will bring forth justice to the nations. We will not cry or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street. He will not break a bruised reed, or quench a smoldering wick. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not fail (burn dimly) or be discouraged (bruised) until he has established justice in the earth. And the coastlands await his law. You see, Matthew has conveniently left out part of the passage, because it does not suit the dealings of Jesus. Christians could never think of Jesus failing, never would the "light" of mankind burn dimly. But, the servant nation of Israel will indeed come to an end when its job is done. When the gentiles come to embrace G'd there will no longer be a chosen people, but rather all will be the children of G'd. Also, the ending phrase has been changed from the Judaic "...the coastlands await his law." to the Christologic, "the Gentiles will hope in his name." While the original proclaims the Torah law of Jehovah, the other rewrites it to fit its strange doctrine of "believing in the name." If one has any doubt the servant referred to is not Jesus, one has only to read the whole chapter, Isaiah 42, and hear about the beloved but blind and imperfect servant, "a people robbed and plundered..." So, we see that when Matthew's attempt at "prophecy" is examined, it crumbles. Three Days and Three Nights: Now we come upon a prophecy supposedly uttered by the very mouth of the god Jesus himself. He speaks of his crucifixion and resurrection. [Mt 12.40] For as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights. Before any further discussion can occur, it is necessary to know how the Jews understood days. As far as day names went, each was 24 hours long, lasting from sunset 6pm to the following sunset 6pm. What was referred to as a "day" was the period of light from 6am to the ending sunset at 6pm. Thus, according to our time scale, a sabbath day began at 6pm Friday evening, and lasted until 6pm saturday evening. This is why the Jews celebrate their sabbath on the daylight portion of Saturdays, instead of Sundays. (It seems like a real miracle that Christians didn't forget that Saturday was indeed the seventh and last day of the week!) Thus, when days and nights are referred to together, 12 hour daylight portions and 12 hour night periods are being spoken of. Thus, Jesus says that he will be in the grave, or in hell, or otherwise unresurrected for three days and three nights. As the good book tells us, Jesus was crucified on the "ninth hour," which is 3pm, Friday afternoon. He then was put into the grave sometime after that. Then, Jesus left the grave, "rose," before dawn of what we call Sunday (The dawn after the sabbath was over). What this means is that Jesus was, using our time for clarity, in the grave from 6pm Friday night to some time before 6am Sunday morning. We could also add a little time before 6pm Friday, since the bible is not specific here. What this means using Jewish time is that he was in the grave for one day, two nights, and possibly a couple of hours of one day. Certainly this is a problem for Jesus prediction. There is absolutely no way we are even able to have his death involve three days and three nights --even using modern time measurements. We then are led to suspect that this error is another one of Matthew's little mistakes, and that the gospel writer put false words into his god's mouth. And no matter who made the prediction, it is more than unconvincing... it is counter-convincing. Hearing & Understanding: Jesus tool on a habit of speaking to his vast audiences in parables-- stories in which a deeper meaning could be found, if you were already one of the elect, those chosen to understand the message of Jesus. He reasons that those who can understand the parables are the ones he wants. If the people cannot understand them, there is no need to bother with them, since they will not accept the "plain" message any better. Matthew says, [Mt 13.14-16] With them [the audience] indeed in fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah which says, "You will indeed hear but never understand; and you will indeed see, but never perceive. Because this people's heart has grown dull, their ears are heavy of hearing, and they have shut their eyes so the they would not perceive with them, her with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn for me to heal them." The original Isaiah passages are part of his earlier works, his call to the ministry. This is in 740 BCE, when Israel is flourishing, right before it falls under the authority of Assyria. Isaiah sees the good times ending, and also a vision from G'd, calling him to bring reform to Israel and Judah. [Is 6.9-13] And G'd said, "Go, and say to this people, `Hear and hear, but do not understand; see and see, but do not perceive.' Make the heart of this people fat, make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, so they will not see with their eyes, or hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed." Then Isaiah said, "How long, lord?" And he said, "Until the cities lie waste without inhabitant, and houses without men, and the land is utterly desolate, and the G'ds take men far away, and forsaken places are many in the land. And though a tenth will remain in it, it will be burned again, like a terebinth or an oak whose stump still stands when the tree is felled." The holy seed is its stump. Here we see that it is really G'd who causes the people of Israel to stop listening to the prophet's warnings, but reaffirms the promise made to Solomon's (and David's) seed/lineage. If you read the rest of Isaiah, you find that this is done to fulfil the plan of G'd to use Israel as a servant, a light to the nations. (Look at Isaiah 42.18-25, 48.20, 49.3) We see that Matthew has cut-and-pasted just a little portion of Isaiah's verse, to suit his own gospel needs. More than that, he has altered the words, to make it fit the people who didn't understand Jesus's stories. And, as we see, Isaiah's verses are not prophecies, but rather commands from G'd to him, in the present. Once again, Matthew's prophecy falls flat on its face. Matthew tries again to make Jesus's parables look like they have the prophetic approval. [Mt 13.35] ...he said nothing to them without a parable. This was to fulfil what was spoken of by the prophet, "I will open my mouth to them in parables. I will utter that which has been hidden since the foundation of the world." Matthew really botches up here. He attempts to quote not from a prophet, but from the Psalms. [Ps 78.2-4] I will open my mouth in parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, things that we all have heard and known, things that our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the lord... As was pointed out, the verses in the Psalms do not really come from a prophet. You might also want to know that earlier copies of Matthew's gospel even inserted Isaiah's name as this prophet. Apparently, later scribes caught the error and tried to cover some of it up. Perhaps the most significant part of this is that, once again, Matthew has altered the Old Testament Scriptures. As Jesus has said earlier, he speaks in parables so that some will not understand them. The parables in the Psalms are not to be hidden. Further, they speak of things "known, that our fathers have told us." Jesus deals with things "hidden since the foundation of the world." Indeed Jesus dealt in a lot of secrecy and confusion. This is in direct opposition to the parables in the Psalms. No wonder Matthew had to rewrite them! And still once again, Matthew's artificial prophecies fall flat on their face. But, Christians rarely look at this. Matthew's prophecies aren't the only things about Christianity that are beginning to look bad. Excuses of Little Faith: In Mt. 17.14-21, we see that the disciples are able to go around casting out demons, except in one case. Not knowing what epilepsy was, the people thought those with the disease were possesed with demons. It is no wonder that the disciples were unable to "dispossess" the epileptic. But, Jesus, perhaps no more enlightened than they, is reported to have rebuked them, saying they didn't have enough faith. This seems strange. Why was this demon special? It seems that either a true believer has faith or he does not. Apparently, enough faith will allow someone to move mountains. Of course, you will find no one, these days that can move real mountains. No one parts seas. The only miracles the Charismatics can speak of are those rumoured to happen on trips to Mexico or some faraway place. Major miracles are making some old woman's arthritis feel better on Sunday morning T.V. And the gods, including Jesus, are always shrouded in ancient lore and writings, protected from the skeptics in their sacred pasts. They are either dead, sleeping, or hiding in heaven, with people rumouring about their imminent return and their great miracles of days long gone. Yet, life goes on. Tales of mystics, stories of miracles-- all in a distant time or a distant place. Gods used to reveal themselves to men in the old days, Jehovah too. But, now they are silent. All the theologians give are various excuses as to why we don't get to see God anymore. We're too lazy; we're not zealous enough; we're sinful; it's just his "plan"; we put too many of our own demands on G'd's appearance; if we had the right faith, if we were willing to meet G'd on his terms... Yet, even the most pious of men have not seen G'd. You, dear reader, have not seen G'd. Not literally, you know that to be true. (I know that's presumptuous and bold. But, searching your heart, you know what I mean.) All that we've seen religions do is make people feel good and content about not seeing G'd. They say our little faith does not merit us to see G'd. Sometimes, they say, "See the love in these people you worship with... see the lives of people change... that is seeing G'd." Thus people get lulled to sleep, satisfied with turning G'd into the everyday sights. But, that is not seeing G'd as I am speaking of... it is not seeing G'd the way people used to see. What we see in the world that is good, is the compassion of human hearts, the love given and taken by men and women, the forgiveness practised by Christian & Atheist alike, beauty created by the mind of man. These are the things that are done; these are what we see. But, it is said this is so only because everybody has little faith. Jesus Rides on an Ass: Shortly after accepting the role of the Jewish messiah king, Jesus requests a donkey be brought in for him to ride into Jerusalem. [Mt 21.5] This took place to fulfil what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, "Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, mounted on an ass, and on a ass-colt." Of course, the passage quoted from Zechariah 9.9 reads a little differently. Lo, your king comes to you; he is triumphant and victorious, humble, and riding on an ass, on an ass- colt... he will command peace to the nations. There isn't all that much difference here, except that Zechariah only involves one animal --an ass-colt-- while Matthew reads the poetic wording slightly differently. Thus, he has Jesus call for both a colt and an adult ass. From Matthew's version, we get a comical picture of the divine Christ sweating it to straddle two donkeys. This could inevitably lead to a theological, proctological dilemma! We find that in the account written earlier by St. Mark, only the colt was called for and brought to Jesus. This indeed fits the verses of Zechariah properly, and shows us that in Matthew attempt to use prophetic verses, he has bungled. Now, excluding many respectable Christians I have met, I have noticed that while Christ is thought to have ridden on asses, the situation is often reversed nowadays... Then, entering the Jerusalem temple, the priests were angered at people and youngsters calling Jesus the messiah. But, Jesus replied as we might expect Matthew to have done, [Mt 21.16] Haven't you read? `Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou has brought perfect praise.' It is more likely that Matthew made this response up since Jesus was never one to point out such little "prophetic" things AND since, as we might expect, the quote is in error, which seems to fit Matthew's track record quite well. We might ask Jesus or Matthew, "Haven't you read?" for the source reads, [Psalms 8.1-2] O YaHWeH our lord, how majestic is your name in the whole world! You, whose glory is chanted above the heavens by babes and infants, you have founded a bulwark against your foes to still the enemy and the avenger. The passages hardly need comment. There is no "perfect praise" spoken of in the psalm, and what praise is there is given to G'd, not his messiah king, and not Jesus. As mentioned, it seems to be just one more case of Matthew's pen making up convenient prophetic scripture. YHVH said to my lord...: Jesus is said to have asked from whom the promised Jewish messiah-king is to be descended. The Jews agree-- it is king David. But, then Jesus counters by quoting Psalms 110, "The LORD said to my Lord, sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet." Taken at face value, Jesus is denying the necessity of Davidic descent. One assumes he is in opposition to their answer. Of course, the Christian answer is that he agrees, but is trying to make some hidden point, to reveal some mystery about the divine nature of the messiah-king. It's tempting to believe this, if one is a Christian and not interested in matters of investigation. But, there are problems. In Jesus's time, the psalm was thought to be about the messiah. And, it is easy to see why David might refer to the messiah as his superior. We need only look at the scriptures about the messiah to see that he is expected to be a great king, bringing the Jews to times even better than those under David's rule. Of course, the Jews listening had no good answer, and the passage could indeed refer to a divine messiah, such as the Christians worship. The problem lies in the meaning of this psalm, an error that apparently several Jews of Jesus's time had also made. One must remember that there were various factions among the Jews, often as a result of different expectations of the messiah-king. Jesus was apparently one of these adventists, like his audience, who thought the messiah's advent was imminent, and who interpreted Psalms 110, among others, as being messianic. What is the problem, then? Psalm 110 literally reads, YHVH's utterance to my lord: "Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool." YHVH sends forth your mighty scepter from Zion. Rule in the midst of your foes! Your people will offer themselves freely on the day you lead your host on the holy mountains. "You are a priest of the order of Melchizedek forever." The word "lord" is often mistakenly capitalised by Christian bibles to denote divinity in this lord. But, in the Hebrew, the word is "adoni," and no capitalisation exists. Adoni simply means "lord," a generic term as we would use it. It is used often in the scriptures to refer to kings and to G'd. It is merely an address of respect. There is nothing in the text itself to imply that the word refers either to divinity or to the messiah-king. That this is supposed to be written by David is not certain. The title of the psalm translates to either "a psalm of David," or "a psalm about David." It seems fitting to assume it to be written by a court poet, about David's covenant and endorsement from G'd. If the psalm had been written by David, it is unlikely that he would be talking about the messiah. The idea of a perfect king, descended from David, was not present in David's age. We have extensive tales of David's doings and sayings-- none of which include any praises of a messiah. Many of the psalms show evidence of being written long after David was dead, in times of the exile when G'd had put his show of favour for David's kingdom on hold. The description in the psalm fit David very well. David was promised by G'd a rise to power, victory over his enemies, successful judgement among the nations he conquered. He achieved the priesthood common to Melchizedek in being a righteous king, enabled to bless the people. It all fits. We do not have to blame this problem on Matthew alone, though. Here, there is not artificial prophecy alluded to, though his use of the scripture is rather questionable. Still, this event is common to the other gospels too. So, we let Matthew off a little more easily this time. It is interesting to note, though, how Matthew dresses up the event. The earlier gospel of Mark tells the tale with Jesus simply speaking to a crowd. Matthew has the Pharisees, who became the religious competition of an infant Christianity, be the target of Jesus's question. As we might expect, Matthew writes that the event ends up by embarrassing the Pharisees. Such power is the pen. Moses & Jesus, Had it Together All Along...: We leave the gospel story of Matthew momentarily to see a pseudo-prophecy in John's gospel. The gospel story of John deserves special treatment, because it seems to be so far removed from the real events of Jesus's career as told by even Matthew. But, for the moment, we will just look at one verse. The early church leaders founded a religion on the Jewish hopes of a messiah king, and on an artificial extension of the original promises made by G'd. When constructing the history of Abraham, Moses wrote of a promise of land and nationhood to the Jewish people. While this was accomplished eventually, under the rule of king David, the Christians who came along later decided that they would claim the fulfillment of the promise. But, to do so, they expanded on the promise, preaching about a heavenly kingdom. [John 8.56] (J.C. speaking) Your father, Abraham, rejoiced to see My day. He say it and was glad. It would be nice to tie in approval for Jesus from Abraham, but, Abraham knew nothing of Jesus or a messiah, or anything Christian. I have tried, and failed to find any event in the Old Testament which corresponds to John's little prophecy. It is par for the course to see St. John making up Old Testament backings, just like his forerunner Matthew. Many Christians know that their faith has many of its foundations in such fraud, and it is surprising they still cling to it. The Potter's Field: We are told that Jesus was betrayed while in Jerusalem by one of his followers, Judas Iscariot. Matthew writes, [Mt 27.5-10] And throwing down the pieces of silver in the temple, [Judas] departed... But, the chief priests, taking the silver, said, "It isn't lawful for us to put it in the treasury, since it is blood money." So they... bought a potter's field with it to bury strangers in... Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel, and they gave them for the potter's field, as the lord directed me." This prophecy is an utterly gross bastardisation of Old Testament Scripture. First, Matthew has made a mistake regarding the name of the prophet. It is Zechariah who utters the verses which Matthew makes use of. [Zech. 11.12-13] ...And they weighed out my wages, thirty shekels of silver. Then YHVH said to me, "Cast them to the treasury," --the lordly price at which I was paid off by them. So I took the thirty shekels of silver and cast them into the treasury in the house of YHVH. First of all, the verses of Zechariah do not deal with a betrayer of the messiah, or of G'd. The deal with a shepherd, most likely a priest, chosen to serve a function of presiding over the people shortly before G'd would send Judah and Israel into conflict with one another. The word, "treasury," had been replaced by the King James Scholars with "to the potter," precisely because this made Matthew's quote fit better. But, this is a blatant error. The correct translation of the Hebrew is indeed "treasury," which also makes perfect sense in Zechariah's context, whereas "potter's field" is totally unrelated. Whether the mistranslation was intentional or not seems to be beyond speculation. However, given Matthew's track record, one finds it hard to resist the notion of intentional dishonesty. Of course, Matthew would have ample reason for altering the text. The thirty pieces of silver match Judas's situation, and if as most Christians seem to be, the reader is willing to disregard the contextual incongruity, Matthew might have another prophecy to toss around. However, the correct translation of Zechariah directly contradicts the situation with Judas and the high priests. The high priests would not put the money in the treasury. The worthless shepherd of Zechariah does exactly the opposite! Of course, to the average Thursday-Night Bible student, the "prophecy" as presented by Matthew would be taken at New Testament face value. To those, Matthew's work is convincing enough. Wine, Vinegar, & Casting Lots: Then, Jesus is led away to be crucified. [Mt 27.34-35] ...they gave him vinegar to drink, mingled with gall; but when he tasted it, he would not drink it. And, when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots: that it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet, "They parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots." First of all, the vinegar offered to Jesus is actually common sour wine, of the type that Roman soldiers drank regularly. We find that right before Jesus dies, the soldiers themselves give him some to drink --not polluted with gall. [Jn 19.28-30] Jesus... said, "I thirst." A bowl of vinegar stood there, so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop and held it to his mouth. When he had received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished;" But, Matthew seems to be drawing on, not a passage from the prophets, but one from the Psalms. [Ps 69.20-28] I looked for pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none. They gave me poison for food (lit. they put gall in my meat), and for my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink... Add to them punishment upon punishment, may they have no acquittal from thee. Let them be blotted out of the Book of the Living. Of course, the sour wine offered to Jesus is done at his request of drink. This does indeed seem to be a show of pity. The psalm quoted is about David and his political and military enemies. It is not about the messiah or Jesus. It is then not surprising that we run into further problem when we see that the "Jesus" in the psalm asks G'd for the damnation of the "crucifiers," whereas the Jesus of the gospels says, [Lk 23.34] Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, the don't know what they do!" Further, Matthew misses with his attempt to create prophecy by having gall (a bitter substance) put into Jesus's drink, not his meat, as the psalm stipulates. With the "prophecy" of the vinegar faulty, we naturally ask, "What of the casting of lots?" This brings up the 22nd Psalm, which deserves discussion all by itself. Suffice it now to say that the fact that Jesus's clothes were divided as told is no great thing. It turns out that this happened often to any felon in those days. As we will soon see, it is perhaps the least erroneous passage of the psalm when applied to Jesus. It does indeed bring up the interesting question as to the quality of Jesus's clothes. For a man so removed from worldly possessions, his ownership of clothes worthy of casting lots raises some suspicions. The 22nd Psalm: This psalm is attributed to David, as a lament of his condition under the attack of his enemies. It becomes a song of praise to YHVH and of hope. Taken out of context, parts of it seem to fit the plight of Jesus at the crucifixion quite well. We will examine the primary passages. Verse 1-2: My god, my god! why have you forsaken me?! Why are you so far from helping me, far from the words of my groaning? Oh, my god, I cry by day, but you don't answer, and by night, but find no rest. Jesus is said to have cried the first sentence while on the cross. This suggests that the whole psalm is really about Jesus, rather than king David. Of course, the rest of the first stanza does not fit as nicely to Jesus or his execution. Jesus is not pictured as complaining about the whole ordeal, he is supposed to be like "the lamb led mute before its shearers." Indeed, Jesus doesn't do much groaning, even when on the cross. He certainly does not cry by both day and night on the cross. 6-8: But, I am a worm, and no man-- scorned by men... All who see me mock at me. They make faces and wag their heads; "He committed his cause to YHVH. So let him deliver him... for he delights in him." This seems to fit Jesus's execution pretty well, with the exception of the Holy messiah being called a worm. 12-13: Many bulls encompass me... they open their mouths widely at me like a ravening and roaring lion. 16-18: Yea, dogs are round about me, a company of evildoers encir-cle me, they have pierced my hands and feet. I can see all my bones... They divide my garments among them, and cast lost for my raiment. 19-21: But you, YHVH, be not far away! ...Deliver my soul from the sword, my life from the power of the dog! Save me from the mouth of the lion, and my afflicted soul from the horns of the wild bull! It would seem quite convincing, and I'm sure the early Christian fathers who wrote of this prophecy thought so too. Unfortunately, this prophecy has a fatal flaw. The words "have pierced" really do not exist in the psalm. The correct Hebrew translation is, 16: Yea, dogs are round about me, a company of evildoers encircles me, like the lion, they are at my hands and feet... In Hebrew the phrase "like the lion" and a very rare verb form which can mean "pierced" differ by one phonetic character. The word in the Hebrew text is literally, "like the lion" (ka'ari), which makes sense in the context, and even further fits the animal imagery employed by the psalm writer. It is convenience that would urge a Christian to change the word to "ka'aru." But, to add the needed (yet artificial) weight to the "prophecy" this is just what the Christian translators have chosen to do. While the correct translation does not eliminate the psalm from referring to Jesus, its absence does not say much for the honesty of the translators. Apart from the erroneous verse 16, the psalm does not lend itself to Jesus so easily. Verse 20 speaks of the sufferer being saved from a sword rather than a cross. This naturally fits the psalm's true subject, king David. As a side note, we now know that crucifixions did not pierce the hands, the palms, but rather the forearms. This doesn't say much in favour of the traditional thought of a resurrected Jesus showing his disciples the scars on his palms. But then, facts aren't bound by our religious beliefs. Matthew escapes culpability this time, as he does not attempt to draw many direct links between this psalm and his lord Jesus. But the psalm, like many others, was on the minds of all the gospel writers when they compiled the stories and interpretations of Jesus's life and death. How much these scriptures may have contributed to what actually got written down is a question that has serious repercussions for Christian theology. It is easy to see, for those who are not faithful fundamentalists, how some of the events in the New Testament might have been "enhanced" by scribes such as the eager Matthew. But, it does less to speculate than to simply investigate scriptural matters and prophetic claims. So far, this has not said good things for St. Matthew. The reference to the piercing looks a lot like Jesus's crucifixion. John's gospel recount, written about 70 years after the fact, tells us at Jesus's execution, [Jn 19.34,37] But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and out came blood and water... these things took place that Scripture be fulfilled... "The will look on him whom they've pierced." Of course, this is built on a passage taken blatantly out of context. Prophet Zechariah tells us how much of the nation of Israel will split off from Jerusalem and Judah and go to war with them. [Zc 12.7-10] And YHVH will give victory to Judah... And on that day, I will seek to destroy the nations that come against Jerusalem (in Judah). And I will pour a spirit of compassion and supplication... on Jerusalem so that when they look on him who they have pierced, they will mourn, and weep bitterly over him like you weep over a firstborn child. John's attempt to make up prophecy is perhaps weaker that Matthew's attempts. Matthew, at least, usually excontexts more than just one passage. John's errors are grossly obvious and blatant here. It does not speak well for any of the gospel writers, as it helps to show how the prophetic aspects of their religion were founded. Reckoned with Transgressors: After his arrest, Jesus is quickly executed for claiming the Jewish kingship, messiahship. According to one version of the gospel tale, Jesus gets executed along with two thieves. [Mk 15.27] And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right, one on his left. And so the scripture was fulfilled which says, "He was reckoned with the transgressors." Here, Mark is trying to link Jesus to a passage in Isaiah 53, about the servant nation of Israel. The passage is not about the messiah, for if one reads the whole chapter of Isaiah 53, and its surrounding chapters, one sees that the servant is a nation. The verses are also about what this servant has gone through in the past, not a prediction of what is to come, in any event. The servant is thought of as a criminal. This also happens to fit the description of Jesus. Had the passage really been about the messiah, it still is not at all clear why executing Jesus between two thieves would fulfill the "prophecy" in Isaiah. Jesus would more fittingly fulfill it with his whole ministry. He was considered a blasphemer and troublemaker all throughout his career. Locking onto a single event is a rather poor way to steal prophecy, at least in this case, as we see that Mark could have had made a better analogy with general comparisons. Mark goes on to tell us how "those who were crucified with [Jesus] also reviled him." [15.32] This is to be expected from a couple of robbers. Of course in his later recount, St. Luke decides to change some things. Luke tells us, [Lk 23.39-43] And one of the criminals who was hanged with him railed, "Aren't you the messiah?! Save yourself, and us!" This certainly fits with Mark's recount, which tells how the people who crucified Jesus said, "Save yourself!" and that the robbers did the same. But then Luke goes on, But the other [criminal] rebuked [the first] saying, "Don't you fear G'd, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we, indeed justly so, for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds. But, this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom." And Jesus answered, "Verily I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise." Now, this little dialogue seems highly contrived. It stretches the imagination a bit to see this picture of one ruffian rebuking his fellow criminal with such eloquent speech. We have a rather strange picture of a criminal lamenting over the goodness of his punishment and the justness of his suffering. Such a man, apparently noble and of principle, doesn't seem likely to have been a robber. We wonder at the amount of theatrics created by Luke. Of course, Luke's recount also disagrees with Mark's. Luke has only one criminal revile Jesus, not both. It is easy enough to discount the discrepancy because the account was made up, but those who wish to believe it is all part of the error free words of G'd do not have this avenue open. This is yet another example of a writer trying to take an Old Testament passage and expand it and reinterpret it to suit his theology. In this case, the embroidery creates some embarrassing problems, as we have seen. The End of the World-- Mt. 24: Now comes perhaps one of the most extraordinary and embarrassing passages in the New Testament. It is found in all three of the synoptic gospel stories, and casts some of the most unfavourable doubt on the whole theory of Christianity. Jesus mentions the destruction of the Jewish temples and buildings, and his disciples ask him about this, and about the end of the world which he has been warning about. The disciples: Tell us, when will this [the temple's destruction] be, and what will be the sign of your coming, and of the close of the age? Jesus: Take care that no one leads you astray, for many will come in my name, saying, "I am the christ." ...you will hear of wars and rumours of wars... for this must take place, but the end is not yet. For, nation will rise against nation... all this is but the beginning of the birthpangs. They will deliver you up... put you to death, and false prophets will arise and lead many astray. ...But he who endures to the end will be saved. This gospel will be preached throughout the whole world, a testimony to the nations, and then the end will come. So, when you see the desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, ...let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened... the stars will fall from heaven... then will appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and see the Son of Man coming... and he will send out his angels... and gather his elect... Learn the lesson of the fig tree: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near. So also, when you see all these things, you will know that He is near, at the very gate. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place... But, of the day and hour, no one knows; not the angels, not the Son, but only the Father... Therefore, you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. From this, it is clear that Jesus thought the world would in within the lifetimes of at least some of his disciples. He tells them that although he doesn't know the exact day or hour, that it will come, and thus they must be ready. Theologians have wet their pants in panic to find some way out of this Holy Error. But, unfortunately, Jesus made himself to explicit. He told his disciples that their generation would still be around at the End, and that they in particular should prepare for it, prepare to be swept away. There have been some who resorted to removing the inerrant nature of the Bible, and said that the phrase, "this generation shall not pass away..." really means "this race of people will not pass away..." Of course, the word for generation is used many times to refer to exactly that, the generation of the disciples. It is an interesting notion that when God decided to learn Greek, he didn't learn it well enough to make himself clear. But. it is quite obvious from the rest of the dialogue that the disciples (at least some of them) are supposed to live to the End of the World. The charge of mistranslation is completely blown away by looking at the Apostles' responses. It becomes abundantly clear from Rev. 22.7, 1 Peter 4.7, 1 John 2.18, and Rev. 22.20, that Jesus meant exactly what he said. The End was very near. For 2,000 years, Christians have rationalised this 24th chapter of Matthew, or ignored its meaning altogether. For 2,000 years, they have waited for their executed leader to come back, hearing of wars, and rumours of wars, sure that He is coming soon. Surely He must be. All we must do is wait. Can you imagine how tired He must be, sitting around up there, being holy, waiting for just the right moment to spring? So, shortly after his crucifixion, Jesus of Nazareth, (Joshua-ben-Joseph), died. It is said that after three days, or three days and three nights, or three periods of time, or three eternal seconds --or three of whatever they can decide makes for less trouble-- he was seen again, resurrected, glowing with divine radiance. Then the Saviour decided it wasn't in the best interests of his new religion to stick around, and therefore disappeared from sight into heaven. So the story goes, anyway. As has been seen, there were many things attributed to Jesus when people got around to writing the gospel stories down. To them, Jesus was the fulfiller of all prophecy and scripture. We have seen, though, that this matter is quite shaky. But, throughout Church history, Christians have held fast to faith, in simple belief. What doctrinal objections could not be solved with argumentation or brute force, faith and forgetfulness kept away from question. To question and investigate has never been the easiest way to treat matters. Thus for 2,000 years, the prophecies cited in the New Testament have gone on largely accepted. Things may well continue that way for some time. Pausing a moment to consider the way the doctrines of Christianity have been accepted and used (properly or improperly) to support wars and persecution, I suppose there is one prophecy of which Christianity can securely keep hold.
The protocol/key-management description published so far is either incomplete or incorrect. It leaves me with no idea of how the system would actually _work_. I hope the CPSR FOIA request succeeds so that we get full details. Wouldn't it be easier just to ask denning@cs.georgetown.edu? ;-)
That's because Lankford had a minor injury from a couple of games before that and was day-to-day... only available as a pinchrunner.
Archive-name: space/data Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:07 $ ONLINE AND OTHER SOURCES OF IMAGES, DATA, ETC. INTRODUCTION A wide variety of images, data, catalogs, information releases, and other material dealing with space and astronomy may be found on the net. A few sites offer direct dialup access or remote login access, while the remainder support some form of file transfer. Many sites are listed as providing 'anonymous FTP'. This refers to the File Transfer Protocol on the Internet. Sites not connected to the Internet cannot use FTP directly, but there are a few automated FTP servers which operates via email. Send mail containing only the word HELP to ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com or bitftp@pucc.princeton.edu, and the servers will send you instructions on how to make requests. The sources with the broadest selection of material are the NASA Ames SPACE archive and the National Space Science Data Center. Don't even ask for images to be posted to the net. The data volume is huge and nobody wants to spend the time on it. VIEWING IMAGES The possible combinations of image formats and machines is forebodingly large, and I won't attempt to cover common formats (GIF, etc.) here. To read PDS and VICAR (and many other) formats on Unix systems running X, use XV 2.11, available by anonymous FTP from export.lcs.mit.edu (18.24.0.12) in contrib/xv-2.11.tar.Z and the other standard X11 FTP sites. The FAQ for the Usenet group alt.binaries.pictures discusses image formats and how to get image viewing software. A copy of this document is available by anonymous FTP from the Usenet FAQ archives at pit-manager.mit.edu (18.72.1.58), in directory pub/usenet/alt.binaries.pictures. ONLINE ARCHIVES NASA AMES Extensive archives are maintained at NASA Ames and are available via anonymous FTP or an email server. These archives include many images and a wide variety of documents including this FAQ list, NASA press releases, shuttle launch advisories, and mission status reports. Please note that these are NOT maintained on an official basis. FTP users should connect to ames.arc.nasa.gov (128.102.18.3) and look in pub/SPACE. pub/SPACE/Index contains a listing of files available in the archive (the index is about 200K by itself). To access the archives by email, send a letter to archive-server@ames.arc.nasa.gov (or ames!archive-server). In the subject of your letter (or in the body), use commands like: send SPACE Index send SPACE SHUTTLE/ss01.23.91. The capitalization of the subdirectory names is important. All are in caps. Only text files are handled by the email server at present; use one of the FTP email servers described in the introduction to this section for images or programs. The Magellan Venus and Voyager Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus CD-ROM image disks have been put online in the CDROM and CDROM2 directories. The disks will be rotated on a weekly basis. Thousands of images are available in these collections. The GIF directory contains images in GIF format. The VICAR directory contains Magellan images in VICAR format (these are also available in the GIF directory). A PC program capable of displaying these files is found in the IMDISP directory (see the item "VIEWING IMAGES" below). The NASA media guide describes the various NASA centers and how to contact their public affairs officers; this may be useful when pursuing specific information. It's in MISC/media.guide. Any problems with the archive server should be reported to Peter Yee (yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov). NASA ASTROPHYSICS DATA SYSTEM The ADS is a distributed data retrieval system which is easy to use and provides uniform access to ground-based and space-based astronomy data from NASA data centers across the country. It currently has over 140 data catalogs of radio, infrared, optical, UV, and X-ray data which can be queried by position or any other parameter in the catalog. The ADS also provides tools to manipulate and plot tabular results. In addition, ADS has a Beta version of an Abstracts Service which allows users to query over 125,000 abstracts of astronomy papers since 1975 by authors, keywords, title words, or abstract text words. ADS use requires direct Internet access. For more info and to sign up to become a user, email ads@cuads.coloradu.edu. The User's Guide and "QuickStart" Guide are available by anonymous FTP to sao-ftp.harvard.edu in directory pub/ads/ADS_User_Guide (PostScript files). Contact Carolyn Stern Grant (stern@cfa.harvard.edu). NASA JET PROPULSION LAB (MISSION INFORMATION AND IMAGES) pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.6.2) is an anonymous FTP site operated by the JPL Public Information Office, containing news releases, status reports, fact sheets, images, and other data on JPL missions. It may also be reached by modem at (818)-354-1333 (no parity, 8 data bits, 1 stop bit). Contact newsdesk@jplpost.jpl.nasa.gov or phone (818)-354-7170. NASA LANGLEY (TECHNICAL REPORTS) techreports.larc.nasa.gov is an anonymous FTP site offering technical reports. To get started, cd to directory pub/techreports/larc/92 and retrieve files README and abstracts.92. Most files are compressed PostScript. The reports are also in a WAIS database with the following description: (:source :version 3 :ip-name "techreports.larc.nasa.gov" :tcp-port 210 :database-name "nasa-larc-abs" :cost 0.00 :cost-unit :free :maintainer "M.L.Nelson@LaRC.NASA.GOV" :description "NASA Langley Research Center Technical Reports Contact tr-admin@techreports.larc.nasa.gov. NASA SPACELINK SpaceLink is an online service located at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama. The system is specifically designed for teachers. The data base is arranged to provide easy access to current and historical information on NASA aeronautics, space research, and technology transfer information. Also included are suggested classroom activities that incorporate information on NASA projects to teach a number of scientific principles. Unlike bulletin board systems, NASA Spacelink does not provide for interaction between callers. However it does allow teachers and other callers to leave questions and comments for NASA which may be answered by regular mail. Messages are answered electronically, even to acknowledge requests which will be fulfilled by mail. Messages are generally handled the next working day except during missions when turnaround times increase. The mail system is closed-loop between the user and NASA. SpaceLink also offers downloadable shareware and public domain programs useful for science educators as well as space graphics and GIF images from NASA's planetary probes and the Hubble Telescope. You can dial in at (205)-895-0028 (300/1200/2400/9600(V.32) baud, 8 bits, no parity, 1 stop bit), or telnet to spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov (128.158.13.250, also known as xsl.msfc.nasa.gov) if you're on the Internet. Anonymous FTP capability (password guest) is now available. Most of this information is also available from the Ames server in directory SPACELINK. NATIONAL SPACE SCIENCE DATA CENTER (NSSDC) The National Space Science Data Center is the official clearinghouse for NASA data. The data catalog (*not* the data itself) is available online. Internet users can telnet to nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov (128.183.36.23) and log in as 'NODIS' (no password). You can also get the catalog by sending email to 'request@nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov'. You can also dial in at (301)-286-9000 (300, 1200, or 2400 baud, 8 bits, no parity, one stop). At the "Enter Number:" prompt, enter MD and carriage return. When the system responds "Call Complete," enter a few more carriage returns to get the "Username:" and log in as 'NODIS' (no password). The system is menu-driven; topics available as of 3/93 are: 1 - Master Directory - NASA & Global Change 2 - Personnel Information Management System 3 - Nimbus-7 GRID TOMS Data 4 - Interplanetary Medium Data (OMNI) 5 - Request data and/or information from NSSDC 6 - Geophysical Models 7 - CANOPUS Newsletter 8 - International Ultraviolet Explorer Data Request 9 - CZCS Browse and Order Utility 10 - Astronomical Data Center (ADC) 11 - STEP Bulletin Board Service 12 - Standards and Technology Information System 13 - Planetary Science & Magellan Project Information 14 - Other Online Data Services at NSSDC 15 - CD-ROMS Available at NSSDC For users with Internet access, datasets are made available via anonymous FTP once you select the desired datasets from the online catalog. For other users, data may be ordered on CD-ROM and in other formats. Among the many types of data available are Voyager, Magellan, and other planetary images, Earth observation data, and star catalogs. Viewers for Macintosh and IBM systems are also available. As an example of the cost, an 8 CD set of Voyager images is $75. Data may ordered online, by email, or by physical mail. The postal address is: National Space Science Data Center Request Coordination Office Goddard Space Flight Center Code 633 Greenbelt, MD 20771 Telephone: (301) 286-6695 Email address: request@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov SPACE TELESCOPE SCIENCE INSTITUTE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SERVICE stsci.edu (130.167.1.2) has a large amount of information about the Hubble Space Telescope available by anonymous FTP, such as status reports and newsletters, in addition to material oriented towards HST observers and proposers. Get the top level README file to begin with. Contact Pete Reppert (reppert@stsci.edu) or Chris O'Dea (odea@stsci.edu). STARCAT The Space Telescope European Coordination Facility, at ESO/Garching provides on-line access to a huge astronomical database, featuring - Observation log files of several satellites/telescopes (IUE,IRAS,HST,NTT...). - Spectra and images (IUE, HST). - Most of the astronomical catalogues (SAO, HR, NGC, PPM, IRAS, Veron, GSC and many others, more than 50) in a very convenient way (give center+radius+kind of objects, and you get the corresponding files!). Log on as ``starcat'' (no password) on node stesis.hq.eso.org (134.171.8.100) or on STESIS (DECnet). The files created can be retreived by FTP. Contact: Benoit Pirenne, bpirenne@eso.org (phone +49 89 320 06 433) at ST-ECF ASTRONOMICAL DATABASES The full SAO stellar database is *NOT* available online, probably due to the 40 MB size. It may be ordered on magnetic tape from the NSSDC. A subset containing position and magnitude only is available by FTP (see "Astronomy Programs" below). nic.funet.fi (128.214.6.100) has a large collection of astronomical programs for many types of computers, databases of stars and deep sky objects, and general astronomy information in directory /pub/astro. This site is mainly for European users, but overseas connections are possible. The Ames archives contain a database of 8,436 galaxies including name, RA, declination, magnitude, and radial velocity in MISC/galaxy.dat. Supplied by Wayne Hayes (wayne@csri.utoronto.ca). iris1.ucis.dal.ca (129.173.18.107) has a number of GIFs from Voyager, Hubble, and other sources available by anonymous FTP in pub/gif (most of this data is also in SPACE/GIF on the Ames server). Please restrict access to 5pm - 8am Atlantic time. pomona.claremont.edu has the Yale Bright Star catalog for anonymous FTP in directory [.YALE_BSC]. Contact James Dishaw (jdishaw@hmcvax.claremont.edu). The Hubble Guide Star catalog is available on CD-ROM for the Mac and PC for $49.95 US (catalog # ST101). Astronomical Society of the Pacific 390 Ashton Ave. San Francisco, CA 94112 Phone: (415) 337-2624 9 AM - 3 PM Pacific Time FAX: (415) 337-5205 For German (and possibly other European) readers, Jost Jahn has a service to distribute astronomical data to interested amateurs at cost. About 30-40 catalogs are available for DM 6..8/disk. Several floppy disk formats are available. Because of the expense of receiving email on his system, he asks that you contact him by physical mail: Jost Jahn Neustaedter Strasse 11 W-3123 Bodenteich GERMANY Phone: FRG-5824-3197 ASTRONOMY PROGRAMS Various astronomy-related programs and databases posted to the net in the past are archived for anonymous FTP at multiple sites, including ftp.uu.net (137.39.1.9). Also see the ASTRO-FTP list posted to sci.astro monthly, which is more complete than this list. Astonomical/Space-related sources of interest in comp.sources.unix: Volume 8: phoon moon phase and date routines Volume 12,13: starchart starchart program & Yale Star data Volume 15: moontool shows moon phase picture on Suns Volume 16: sao reduced SAO catalog Astonomical/Space-related sources of interest in comp.sources.misc: Volume 8: moon another moon phase program Volume 11: starchart starchart program, version 3.2 Volume 11: n3emo-orbit orbit: track earth satellites Volume 12: starchart2 starchart program, update to version 3.2.1 Volume 13: jupmoons plotter for Jupiter's major moons [in perl] Volume 13: lunisolar lunisolar (not sure what this does) Volume 14: ephem-4.21 astronomical ephemeris, v4.21 Volume 14: n3emo-orbit patch to orbit 3.7 Volume 18: planet planet generation simulator Elwood Downey (e_downey@tasha.cca.cr.rockwell.com), the author of "ephem", has offered to mail copies to people who can't find it on one of the archives. XSAT, an X Window System based satellite tracking program, is available by anonymous FTP from export.lcs.mit.edu (18.24.0.12) in contrib/xsat1.0.tar.Z. Contact Dave Curry (davy@ecn.purdue.edu) for more information. Xsky, a computerized sky atlas for the X Window System, is available for anonymous FTP on arizona.edu in the directory [.SOFTWARE.UNIX.XSKY] as xsky.tarz. Contact Terry R. Friedrichsen (terry@venus.sunquest.com) for more information. The "Variable Stars Analysis Software Archive" is available via anonymous FTP from kauri.vuw.ac.nz (130.195.11.3) in directory pub/astrophys. This is intended for specialists in this field, and they would appreciate people from outside New Zealand confining their FTP access to the astrophys directory, as they pay a significant amount for Internet access. Contents are relatively sparse at present due to the youth of the archive - contributions are encouraged. Contact the archive administrator, Timothy Banks (bankst@kauri.vuw.ac.nz) for more information. The "IDL Astronomy Users Library" is available by anonymous FTP from idlastro.gsfc.nasa.gov (128.183.57.82). This is a central repository for general purpose astronomy procedures written in IDL, a commercial image processing, plotting, and programming language. Contact Wayne Landsman (landsman@stars.gsfc.nasa.gov) for more information. ORBITAL ELEMENT SETS The most recent orbital elements from the NASA Prediction Bulletins are carried on the Celestial BBS, (513)-427-0674. Documentation and tracking software are also available on this system. The Celestial BBS may be accessed 24 hours/day at 300, 1200, or 2400 baud using 8 data bits, 1 stop bit, no parity. Orbital element sets are available via anonymous FTP from the following sites: archive.afit.af.mil (129.92.1.66) NASA,TVRO,Shuttle directory: /pub/space ftp.funet.fi (128.214.6.100) NASA,TVRO,Molczan,CelBBS, directory: /pub/astro/pc/satel Shuttle (*) kilroy.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.1.165) NASA,Molczan directory: /pub/space/ SPACE DIGEST ARCHIVES Copies of back issues of Space Digest are archived on LISTSERV@UGA.BITNET. Send mail containing the message "INDEX SPACE" to get an index of files; send it the message "GET filename filetype" to get a particular file. LANDSAT AND NASA PHOTOS You can get black-and-white 1:1M prints, negatives, or positives for $10, $18, $12 respectively for any Landsat data more than 2 years old from EDC, (Eros (Earth Resources Orbiting Satellite) Data Center). Call them at (605)-594-6511. You get 80 meter resolution from the MSS scanner, 135x180 kilometers on a picture 135x180 mm in size. I think you have to select one band from (green, red, near IR, second near IR), but I'm not sure. Digitial data is also available at higher prices. Transparencies of all NASA photos available to the public can be borrowed from the NASA photo archive; you can have copies or prints made. NASA Audio-Visual Facility 918 North Rengstorff Ave Mountain View, CA 94043 (415)-604-6270 PLANETARY MAPS The USGS address for maps of the planets is: U.S. Geological Survey, Distribution Branch, Box 25286, Federal Center, Bldg. 41 Denver, CO 80225 Maps cost $2.40 to $3.10 per sheet (a few come in sets of 2 or 3 sheets). The best global maps of Mars based on Viking images are 1:15,000,000 scale in 3 sheets. These maps are: I-1535 (2 sheets only) - relief, albedo, names I-1535 I-1618 (3 sheets) - relief, names I-2030 (3 sheets) - relief, topographic contours I-1802-A,B,C (3 sheets) - geology There are many other maps as well: 30 sheets at 1:5,000,000 scale in relief, albedo, geology, photomosaic forms (not all 30 sheets available in all formats); 140 sheets at 1:2,000,000 scale as photomosaics of the whole planet, about 100 sheets of interesting sites at 1:500,000 scale in photomosaic format, and lots of special sheets. Then there are maps of Mercury, Venus, the Moon, the four Galilean Satellites, six moons of Saturn and five of Uranus. [Phil Stooke (stooke@vaxr.sscl.uwo.ca), the author of this item, has offered to respond to email requests for information on any topic relating to lunar and planetary maps.] COMETARY ORBIT DATA The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams and the Minor Planet Center announce the sixth edition of the Catalogue of Cometary Orbits in IAU Circular 4935. The catalogue contains 1292 entries which represent all known comets through November 1989 and is 96 pages long. Non-subscribers to the Circulars may purchase the catalogue for $15.00 while the cost to subscribers is $7.50. The basic catalogue in ASCII along with a program to extract specific orbits and calculate ephemerides is available on MS-DOS 5.25-inch 2S2D diskette at a cost of $75.00 (the program requires an 8087 math coprocessor). The catalogue alone is also available by e-mail for $37.50 or on magnetic tape for $300.00. Except for the printed version of the catalogue, the various magnetic media or e-mail forms of the catalogue do not specifically meantion non-subscribers. It is possible that these forms of the catalogue may not be available to non-subscribers or that their prices may be more expensive than those given. Mail requests for specific information and orders to: Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Cambridge, MA 02138, USA
I'd like to share my thoughts on this topic of "arrogance of Christians" and look forward to any responses. In my encounters with Christians, I find myself dismayed by their belief that their faith is total truth. According to them, their beliefs come from the Bible and the bible is the word of God and God is truth - thus they know the truth. This stance makes it difficult to discuss other faiths with them and my own hesitations about Christianity because they see no other way. Their way is the 'truth.' But I see their faith arising from a willful choice to believe a particular way. That choice is part faith and part reason, but it seems to me a choice. My discussions with some Christians remind me of schoolyard discussions when I was in grade school: A kid would say, "All policemen are jerks!" I'd ask, "How do you know?" "Because my daddy told me so!" "How do you know you're daddy is right?" "He says he's always right!" Well the argument usually stops right there. In the end, aren't we all just kids, groping for the truth? If so, do we have the authority to declare all other beliefs besides our own as false? ------------- This is only my third time browsing through this newsgroup. I apologize if I'm covering tired old ground. Some of the discussions on this topic have piqued my interest and I welcome any comments. -- [I'm sort of mystified about how a Christian might respond to this. I can understand criticisms of Christianity that say there's not enough evidence to believe it, or that there's just as good evidence for other religions. I don't agree, but clearly there are plenty of intelligent people who don't find the evidence convincing. But that doesn't seem to be your point. Rather, you seem upset that people who believe Christianity is true also believe that things which contradict it are false. This suggests a model of spiritual things that's rather different than the Christian one. It sounds more like an existentialist view, where people choose what value to follow, but there's no actual independent spiritual reality, and so no way to say that a specific choice is in some unique sense right. This sort of model -- with modifications of one sort or another -- may be appropriate for some religions. But Christianity is in its essense a "historical" religion. That is, it's based on the concept that there are actual spiritual entities out there, that one of them has intervened in history in specific ways, and that we see evidence of that in history. In the "mundane" world, we are not free to choose how things work. When we drop something, it falls (aside from well-defined situations where it doesn't). The Christian concept is that spiritual matters, there is also an actual external reality. I hope we're all honest enough not to claim that we have perfect understanding. But while we may not think we know everything, we are confident that we know some things. And that implies that we think things that contradict them are false. I don't see how else we could proceed. This needn't result in arrogance. I'm certainly interested in talking with people of other religions. They may have things to teach me, and even if they don't, I respect them as fellow human beings. But it's got to be possible to respect people and also think that on some matters they are wrong. Maybe even disasterously wrong.
It's Stankiewicz, not Stankowitz, and he's not Jewish - he's Polish (by the way, the correct pronunciation - according to Stanky himself, is "ston-KEV-itch". all the sportscasters get it wrong) The only other Jewish ballplayer I can think of is Ron Blomberg, who is best known as being the first DH to appear in a major league ballgame.
Let's see if I have this straight. A law is created that says "you can not have a automatic weapon" and therefore it's ok for the government to use any level of force to enforce that law. Doesn't matter if the entire population of the planet is destroyed as long as that law is obeyed.
I wondered the same thing. When he first mentioned it, I thought he was just making a mistake but then he said it over and over. And then in the examples from other years, he gave stats for players from both leagues even when only one league expanded. So (since stats *NEVER* lie :-) ), I guess there is an effect on both leagues because the expansion draft takes talent from both leagues equally making every team in both leagues dilute their major league talent by calling up players that, normally, they would not have had there not been expansion.
You're assuming that their normal rotation carries all areas of the surface into sunlight. Not so. Even on Earth, each pole gets several weeks without sunlight in mid-winter. Pluto and Charon have much more extreme axial tilt and a much longer orbit. Pluto's north pole, for example, gets over a century of darkness followed by over a century of perpetual light. At the moment, we're in luck -- Pluto and Charon are just past their equinox, when the Sun was just on the horizon at both poles (of each). If we get probes there soon, only the immediate vicinity of one pole (on each) will be in long-term shadow. This will get steadily worse the longer we wait.
I'm looking for a program that will let me use a windows common dialog box to select a file to use when running a DOS app. Basically, I have several DOS apps that I use now and then with different files. They all accept a file as a command line parameter, but the only way (at least that I know of) to do this easily when running them from windows is to set up the PIF file so that it prompts me for additional parameters (at which point I type in the file name). Problems are: 1) Sometimes I can't remember where the file is exactly located and it would be nice to browse my directories for it without having to use the file manager. and 2) I'm lazy and hate to type long pathnames for files burried several directory levels deep. If anyone can point me to such a program or let me know of some other way to handle this, I'd appreciate it. Thanks, Tim -- The Net isn't organized enough to be considered an anarchy
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release April 14, 1993 PRESIDENT NAMES OFFICIALS AT TRANSPORTATION, COMMERCE, DEFENSE, AND OPIC (Washington, DC) President Clinton announced his intention today to nominate Albert Herberger to be Administrator of the Federal Maritime Administration, Loretta Dunn to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Import Administration, and Christopher Finn to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Additionally, he has approved the appointments of Joan Yim to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Maritime Administration, Alice Maroni to be Principal Deputy Comptroller of the Department of Defense, and Deborah Castelman to be Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, and Communications. "We are continuing to move forward with putting together a government of excellent, diverse Americans who share my commitment to changing the way that Washington works," said the President. "These six people I am naming today fit that bill." Biographical sketches of the nominees are attached. ### BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES OF NOMINEES April 14, 1993 Albert Herberger, a thirty-five year Navy veteran who retired with the rank of Vice Admiral, is the Vice President of the International Planning and Analysis Center (IPAC). Among the positions he held during his naval service were Deputy Commander- in-Chief of the U.S. Transportation Command, Director of Logistics on Staff for the Atlantic Fleet Commander-in-Chief, and Director of the Military Personnel Policy Division for the Office of Naval Operations. A surface warfare expert and a merchant marine officer with over eighteen years operational experience, Herberger is also Vice Chairman of the National Defense Transportation Association's Sealift Committee. He is a graduate of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the Naval Postgraduate School. Loretta Dunn has served on the staff of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation since 1979. Since 1983 she has been the Committee's Senior Trade Counsel, responsible for drafting trade legislation and reports, planning and conducting hearings, managing legislation on the Senate floor and in conferences with the House, overseeing a variety of executive branch agencies, including the Department of Commerce. She was previously a Staff Counsel for the Committee. Dunn holds a B.A. in History from the University of Kentucky, a J.D. from the University of Kentucky College of Law, and an L.M. from the Georgetown University Law Center. Christopher Finn is the Executive Vice President of Equities for the American Stock Exchange. Previous positions he has held have included Senior Vice President of the Air and Water Technologies Corporation, Chief of Staff to Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, Deputy Commissioner of the New York State Department of Economic Development, and Chief Legislative Aide to Congressman James R. Jones. Finn is a graduate of Harvard College. Joan Yim is a professional planner with over 17 years experience in community based planning, policy analysis, project design and management, inter-agency coordination and government affairs. From 1975-92, she was with the Hawaii Office of State Planning as a planner on issues relating to natural resource and coastal zone management and public infrastructure financing, among other issues. Currently, she is Supervising Planner with the Honolulu firm of Parsons Brinckerhogg Quade & Douglas. Before going to work for the state, she was Executive Neighborhood Commission Secretary for the City and County of Honolulu, and Chair on the Kaneohe Community Planning Committee. A Democratic National committeewoman, Yim holds a B.A. from Connecticut College and pursued graduate studies at the University of Hawaii. (more) April 14, 1993 page two Alice Maroni is a professional staff member of the House Armed Services Committee specializing in defense budget issues. She previously worked as a national defense specialist in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division of the Congressional Research Service, and as an international risk analyst for Rockwell International. She has written extensively on defense budget related topics. Maroni received her B.A. from Mount Holyoke College, and an M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. She has also completed the senior service program at the National War College and Harvard's Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security. Deborah Castleman is currently on leave from RAND, where she is a Space and Defense Policy Analyst. She was an advisor to the Clinton/Gore campaign on space, science and technology, and national security issues. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Castleman held engineering positions with the Hughes Space and Communications Group, General Dynamics, and Electrac, Inc. She served as an Avionics Technician in the Air Force from 1974-77. Castleman holds a B.S. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from California State Polytechnic University, M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology, and M.A. in International Studies from Claremont Graduate School.
Just a pointer to the article in the current Science News article on Federal R&D funding. Very briefly, all R&D is being shifted to gaining current competitive advantage from things like military and other work that does not have as much commercial utility.
Here is a letter I sent to David Skaggs, (Dem, CO). Before anybody says something, yes the letter is a bit "sharp" in tone. I have been writting reasonable and polite letters to him for years, and all I get in return in the HCI party line. Since he already is NRA F rated, I don't think that upsetting him will harm the cause. Sorry if you disagree, but recent events in Texas REALLY have me pissed. ------------------- April 20, 1993 Representative Skaggs, Recently I wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, (BATF), in Texas. In your response you stated that "Events in Texas underscore the need for stricter gun control legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the Branch Davidians. My question to you is, "what grounds would you use to deny them access to firearms?" Best I can tell this statement underscores your apparent total ignorance of the subject, and highlights your personal bias against firearms. I say this because there are only two possible paths of "gun control" which you could have been referencing. Either: 1) You were talking about their access to semi-automatics firearms. In this case I should point out that semi-automatic firearms are legal in most areas of this Country, including Texas and Colorado. In addition the members of the "cult" have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability to purchase these weapons. So under what grounds would you deny them these guns? Their religion? The fact they they live in a large group alone by themselves? Because you consider them to be a cult? Maybe I consider your Church to be a cult! This line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of "thought crimes." You and Pat Robertson should really get along. 2) You were referring to the ALLEGED FULLY automatic weapons possessed by the "cult." Under current US law, FULLY automatic weapons have been covered by some of the strictest gun control laws in this Nation. So if David Koresh illegally possessed them, he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest laws we have. How will more laws help? By the way, it has been reported that David Koresh possessed a Federal Firearms License which would have permitted him to possess FULLY automatic weapons. If true, the 85 people who perished Monday in the fire, died so that the Federal government could collect a couple hundred dollars in taxes on guns David Koresh didn't declare. I have heard claims that they were "stockpiling weapons." Yet considering the number of people in the complex, even 200+ weapons would not have been out of line with gun ownership statistics for all of Texas. What's next? A siege of Dallas/Ft Worth for alleged "stockpiling?" Face it David Skaggs, You have voted for virtually EVERY gun control law that has passed through Congress, yet you claim that you are only for "reasonable" restrictions. Bull****! Handgun Control Inc. is struggling to maintain 250,000 PAID members, while the NRA has just exceeded 3,000,000 members. They are still growing at a rate of 2,000 new members per day. Driving around YOUR district I see NRA stickers every day. In eight plus years of living here I have only seen ONE HCI bumper sticker. When you vote for your "reasonable" gun control laws, are you really representing your district, or are you representing Sarah Bradys'? Thank You, William J. Vojak April 20, 1993 Representative Skaggs, Recently I wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, (BATF), in Texas. In your response you stated that "Events in Texas underscore the need for stricter gun control legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the Branch Davidians. My question to you is, "what grounds would you use to deny them access to firearms?" Best I can tell this statement underscores your apparent total ignorance of the subject, and highlights your personal bias against firearms. I say this because there are only two possible paths of "gun control" which you could have been referencing. Either: 1) You were talking about their access to semi-automatics firearms. In this case I should point out that semi-automatic firearms are legal in most areas of this Country, including Texas and Colorado. In addition the members of the "cult" have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability to purchase these weapons. So under what grounds would you deny them these guns? Their religion? The fact they they live in a large group alone by themselves? Because you consider them to be a cult? Maybe I consider your Church to be a cult! This line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of "thought crimes." You and Pat Robertson should really get along. 2) You were referring to the ALLEGED FULLY automatic weapons possessed by the "cult." Under current US law, FULLY automatic weapons have been covered by some of the strictest gun control laws in this Nation. So if David Koresh illegally possessed them, he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest laws we have. How will more laws help? By the way, it has been reported that David Koresh possessed a Federal Firearms License which would have permitted him to possess FULLY automatic weapons. If true, the 85 people who perished Monday in the fire, died so that the Federal government could collect a couple hundred dollars in taxes on guns David Koresh didn't declare. I have heard claims that they were "stockpiling weapons." Yet considering the number of people in the complex, even 200+ weapons would not have been out of line with gun ownership statistics for all of Texas. What's next? A siege of Dallas/Ft Worth for alleged "stockpiling?" Face it David Skaggs, You have voted for virtually EVERY gun control law that has passed through Congress, yet you claim that you are only for "reasonable" restrictions. Bull****! Handgun Control Inc. is struggling to maintain 250,000 PAID members, while the NRA has just exceeded 3,000,000 members. They are still growing at a rate of 2,000 new members per day. Driving around YOUR district I see NRA stickers every day. In eight plus years of living here I have only seen ONE HCI bumper sticker. When you vote for your "reasonable" gun control laws, are you really representing your district, or are you representing Sarah Bradys'? Thank You, William J. Vojak --------------------------- Bill Vojak vojak@icebucket.stortek.com NRA, ILA, Colorado Firearms Coalition ------------------------------------------------------------ The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER NOT!) The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER BIASED!)
Level 5 refers to the Carnegie-Mellon Software Engineering Institute's Capability Maturity Model. This model rates software development org's from1-5. with 1 being Chaotic and 5 being Optimizing. DoD is beginning to use this rating system as a discriminator in contracts. I have more data on thifrom 1 page to 1000. I have a 20-30 page presentation that summarizes it wethat I could FAX to you if you're interested... Bret Wingert Wingert@VNET.IBM.COM
You know what my answer will be: Hrivnak! The choice is obvious.
It occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you, and the escrow houses release your code to the cops, your code is now no longer secure. It's in the hands of cops, and while I am sure most of the time they are good, their security will not be as good as the escrow houses. What this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you, at the end of the wiretap, they should be obligated to inform you that a tap was performed, and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the escrow houses. Do the police normally reveal every tap they do even if no charges are laid? In many ways, it would be a positive step if they had to. Judges set time limits on warrants, I assume. At the end of the time limit they should have to renew or replace your chip. That's if we go with this scheme, which I am not sure I agree with.
MSG is common in many food we eat, including Chinese (though some oriental restaurants might put a tad too much in them). I've noticed that when I go out and eat in most of the Chinese food restaurants, I will usually get a slight headache and an ununsual thirst afterwards. This happens to many of my friends and relatives too. And, heh, we eat Chinese food all the time at home :) (but we don't use MSG when we're cooking for ourselves) So, when we put one and one together, it can be safely assumed that MSG may cause some allergic reactions in some people. Stick with natural things. MSG doesn't do body any good (and possibly harms, for that matter). So, why bother with it? Taste food as it should be tasted, and don't cloud the flavor with an imaginary cloak of MSG. -michael
I've recently listened to a tape by Dr. Stanislaw Burzynski, in which he claims to have discovered a series naturally occuring peptides with anti- cancer properties that he names antineoplastons. Burzynski says that his work has met with hostility in the United States, despite the favorable responses of his subjects during clinical trials. What is the generally accepted opinion of Dr. Burzynski's research? He paints himself as a lone researcher with a new breakthrough battling an intolerant medical establishment, but I have no basis from which to judge his claims. Two weeks ago, however, I read that the NIH's Department of Alternative Medicine has decided to focus their attention on Burzynski's work. Their budget is so small that I imagine they wouldn't investigate a treatment that didn't seem promising. Any opinions on Burzynski's antineoplastons or information about the current status of his research would be appreciated.
930418 Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law. [Honestly.] The word of Sin is Restriction. [Would I kid you?] Does one man's words encompass the majestic vision of thousands of individuals? Quoting a man is not the same as quoting the Order. Taken out of context, words can be interpreted much differently than had one applied them within the confines of their original expression. I think this is the case regarding Hymenaeus Beta, Frater Superior of the Order to which I belong. When he included that bit from Merlinus X' he did us all a service. He showed us the extremes to which Order members have been known to go in their fervor. I have little knowledge regarding Reuss' background, but surely he was an unusual man, and he was an important force in the Order for many years. Yet as people change so do Orders change, and while we look back so carefully at the dirty laundry of O.T.O. remember that this is only the surface skim and that many perspectives are now encompassed which extend beyond any one individual. I hope to show that there was and is much room for a difference of opinion within the Order itself, perhaps by testing the limits myself. Let us examine this issue a bit more closely.... "In 1895, Karl Kellner (1850-1905), a wealthy Austrian industrialist and paper chemist, as well as a high-grade Mason, founded the Ordo Templi Orientis. Kellner had traveled widely in the East, where he met three adepts who instructed him specific magical practices. Kellner's efforts to develop the Order were later assisted by Franz Hartmann, Heinrich Klein and Theodore Reuss, who had worked together prior to joining the O.T.O. The Order was first proclaimed in 1902 in Reuss's Masonic publication, 'Oriflamme'. On Kellner's death, Reuss succeeded him as Outer Head [O.H.O.]. The 'Jubilee' edition of the 'Oriflamme', published in 1912, announced that the Order taught secret of sexual magic. "Theodore Reuss was an interesting character. Born June 28, 1855 in Augsburg, he entered Masonry in 1876. He was a singer, journalist and possibly a spy for the Prussian political police, infiltrating the Socialist League founded by Karl Marx's daughter and her husband. Reuss was later associated with William Wynn Westcott, a leader of the Golden Dawn, who later introduced him to John Yarker. Yarker chartered Reuss to found the Rites of Memphis and Mizraim in Germany. After several attempts to concretize various Masonic Rites, Reuss settled on the development of the O.T.O. "The Order experienced reasonably steady growth under Reuss' leadership. For example, he chartered Papus in France, Rudolph Steiner in Berlin and H. Spencer Lewis in the USA. In 1912, the historic meeting between Reuss and Crowley occurred. Crowley wrote that Reuss came to him and accused him of revealing Order secrets. When Crowley looked at it afresh, the initiated interpretation of sexual magick unfolded itself to him for the first time. Reuss appointed Crowley as Supreme and Holy King of all the English speaking world, and it was this authorization that he invoked when publishing the material of the Equinox. "Reuss resigned as Outer Head of the Order in 1922 after suffering a stroke and named Crowley his successor. All was well until 1925 when _The Book of the Law_ was translated into German. There was a break in the continuity of the Order. Manyk members split with the new O.H.O. over the book, which Crowley was actively promulgating through the Order. He had earlier revise dthe Order rituals at Reuss's request, deeply infusing the doctrines of the New Aeon revelation." _An Introduction to the History of the O.T.O._, by Ad Veritatem IX' Within _Equinox III:10_, Edited by Hymenaeus Beta, Frater Superior, Rex Summus Sanctissimus, Caliph of the United States of America, Published by Samuel Weiser, 1990. There are many possible reasons that our Frater Superior included this material in _Equinox III:10_. And this is the real point, is it not? Why did he wish to publish such things about the history of his own organization? Does he represent a dogmatic threat to the principle of Thelema? Or is he exercising his True Will and putting forth very complex pictures with no easy answers? A picture which leaves room for very many interpretations. It is quite easy for me to see, for example, that all of O.T.O. derived out of the dribble of faltering Masonry, purchased by clever hucksters with an ounce of courage and some writing ability to aid them. And I can take that all the way down to our present Caliph, whose feeble support of the 'Law of Thelema' is laughable at best. Would I be thrown out of the Order for speaking in this way? Will I? I think not. Why? Because my Frater will see it as a perspective, an interjection I am using as an example. My illustration shows that we may express things in the context of a larger work and the true significance of this may be quite difficult to apprehend at first. So it may be with OTO and Merlinus X'. Please look O.T.O. more carefully. I do not support Reuss's words myself, as I am not qualified to assess them, and I am critical of their pomposity. If I who am a member of the Order take such a stand and am allowed to continue doing so, then what can this say about the health of the Order? Does it mean that the Order has 'gone soft' and abandoned its moral principles? Or does it mean that it is strong in its ability to let the will of universal kinship arise on its own, not shackled by some dogmatic requirement? How shall we resolve these two possibilities? I find a high calibre of individual associated with Ordo Templi Orientis. They are often quite intelligent and sometimes very well versed in arcane or usual information. They are quite often artists and geniuses. Having met some 20 longstanding members in the SF Bay Area (many who are or were very heavily involved with the Order), I can vouch for the integrity of the organization as it stands. I have sometimes questioned the policy of Hymenaeus Beta. In these moments I followed my intuition, and I've found little to stop me from requesting a Second initiation from a different O.T.O. body. I'm happily participating in social groups (Feasts or Initiations) and have come to know the Gnostic Mass well enough for my tastes. This doesn't make me an authority on Order politics and explanations, however. I can only hypothesize and relay to you what I understand based on my limited contact with other members. I urge you not to take the words of Merlinus X too far. There are many ways to interpret words, and many people who have become involved with the Order feel very strongly about the sanctity of personal freedom and the preservation of individual vision. I welcome other comment on this issue and will be writing more in response to other posts in this thread. Invoke me under my stars. Love is the law, love under will. I am I!
I am looking for a Windows Utility that would give me a listing of files in a directory, but also display a description of the file. This utility would allow me to enter and edit file descriptions of, hopefully, any length (maybe a small window with a scroll bar?). I would then be able to browse my directories and be able to see what is in a file without having to open or execute it. Any such beast out there? If not, anyone want to write one?
... And send him a shift key too...
You are making the same mistake I did: you are confusing the DRIVE interface to the DATA THROUGHPUT interface. Again from my Mac & IBM info sheet {available by FTP on sumex-aim.stanford.edu (36.44.0.6) in the info-mac/report as mac-ibm-compare173.txt}: Expansion Both Mac & IBM SCSI: only external device expansion interface common to both Mac and IBM. Allows the use of any device: hard drive, printer, scanner, Nubus card expansion {Mac Plus only}, some monitors, and CD-ROM. Apple developed some specifications for SCSI controlers while IBM has no exact controller specifications {which results in added incompatibilities on IBM machines}. Main problem: there are a lot of external devices which are internal terminated which causes problems for more then two devises off the SCSI port {A SCSI chain is supposed to be terminated ONLY at the begining and at the end. Any other set up causes problems for either Mac or IBM}. SCSI-1: 7 devices per SCSI controller. 8-bit asynchronous {~1.5MB/s ave} and synchronous {5MB/s max} transfer base. 16-bit SCSI-1 requires a SCSI-2 controler chip and can provide only fast SCSI-2 not wide SCSI-2 which are both 16-bit interfaces {see SCSI-2}. SCSI-2: 10 devices per SCSI controller in SCSI-2 mode. SCSI-2 is fully SCSI-1 complient and tends to be implimented as a very fast SCSI-1 since it needs a different controller interface in both hardware {which tends to be very expendsive} and software. Transfer speeds are 4-6MB/s with 10MB/s burst {8-bit}, 8-12MB/s with 20MB/s burst {16-bit}, and 15-20MB/s with 40MB/s burst {32-bit/wide and fast}. SCSI-2 in SCSI-1 mode is limited to 7 devices and reduced 8-bit or 16-bit {fast only} throughput due to the difference between SCSI-1 and wide SCSI-2 ports. IBM HD Interfaces {limited to hard drives by design or lack of development}: [...] IDE: Integrated Device Electronics currently the most common standard, and is mainly used for medium sized drives. Can have more than one hard drive. Asynchronous Transfer: ~5MB/s max. So at its LOWEST setting SCSI-2 interface in Asynchronous SCSI-1 mode AVERAGES the through put MAXIMUM of IDE in asynchronous mode. In full SCSI-2 mode it blows poor IDE out the window, down the street, and into the garbage can. The problem becomes can the drive mechanisim keep up with those through put rates and THAT is where the bottleneck and cost of SCSI-2 comes from. NOT the interface itself but more and more from drive mechanisims to use the SCSI-2 through put. The cost of SCSI interface is a self fulliling prophisy: few people buy SCSI because it is so expencive for the PC, which in turn convices makes that mass producing SCSI {which would reduce its cost} is unwarented, and so SCSI is expencive. {That is the effect of the Rule of Scale: the more items sold the less EACH item has to bare the brunt the cost of manufacture and so the less each item has to cost}
As most of you know, we have recently changed our standard VESA local-bus video card from our own NCR-based card to the new Diamond Stealth 24 VLB card for packages 2, 3, and 4 (package #1 still has the NCR "screamer'). We also have added the $149 upgrade from the Stealth 24 or NCR to the Diamond Viper to our product list. Below are the comparisons of the different cards in the configurations we will offer: NCR Stealth 24 VLB Viper VLB 64Ox480 Colors 16,256 16,256,32K,64K,16.7M 16,256,32K,64K,16.7M * 8OOx6OO Colors 16,256 16,256,32K,64K 16,256,32K,64K * 1024x768 Colors 16,256 16,256 16,256 1280x1024 Colors 16 16 16 Video Processor NCR 77C22E+ S3 86C805 Weitek Power 9000 Video RAM 1M 1M 1M Max RAM addressable by Vid Processor 3M 2M 2M RAM Type DRAM DRAM VRAM User RAM Upgrade? No (no sockets) No (no sockets) Yes (thru Diamond) 64Ox480 Refresh 60-72 Hz 60-72 Hz 60-72 Hz 8OOx6OO Refresh 56-72 Hz 56-72 Hz 56-72 Hz 1024x768 Refresh 44-70 Hz 43-72 Hz 43-72 Hz 128Oxl024 Refresh 43 Hz 43-60 Hz 43-74 Hz 26 pin VESA Feature Connector No Yes No Conflict with x2E8 port addr (COM4) No YES* No* Drivers for: Win 3.1 Yes Yes Yes ACad 9/10/11 Yes Yes Yes ACad 12 No Yes** Yes** VESA Yes Yes Yes OS/2, WinNT NO*** NO*** NO*** Win 3.1 WINMARKS 10.5M**** 21 M**** 50M**** ^L * Viper VLB with 2M of video RAM also gives 8OOx6OO 16.7M, 1024x768 32K & 64K, and 1280xl 024 256 color. S3-based cards, since they are downward compatible, will have the conflict with 2E8. Diamond admits conflict will exist with the Stealth 24. The prelim Viper manual incorrectly lists the S3 port addresses. No conflict. ** AutoCAD 12 drivers are now currently available for Stealth, SpeedSTAR 24X, Stealth 24 VLB, and Viper VLB. They can only be obtained from Diamond Tech Support, 408-736-2000 and NOT on any BBS. ** OS/2 2.0 is supported for Standard VGA for all cards. SVGA drivers available in the near future. Windows NT is not released yet, and no drivers are available currently. Diamond hopes to have all current products supported in the Win NT release, on the NT disks.
: I believe that Rusty Staub was also a jewish ball-player : Also, Mordaci Brown back in the early 20th century. He was a pitcher whose : nickname was "3 fingers" Brown....for obvious reasons....he had 3 fingers. 0 for 2, ma_ind25. Daniel Patrick Staub is a Catholic school kid from Nawlins, Mordecai Brown a farm kid (probably Protestant) from somewhere in the Midwest. He lost those fingers in a farm machinery accident. Jim Palmer isn't Jewish himself, but Mr. Jockey Shorts's adoptive parents are. Also, I'm not absolutely certain that Carew actually converted. His wife and children certainly are Jewish. --
Are people here stupid or what??? It is a tie breaker, of cause they have to have the same record. How can people be sooooo stuppid to put win as first in the list for tie breaker??? If it is a tie breaker, how can there be different record???? Man, I thought people in this net are good with hockey. I might not be great in Math, but tell me how can two teams ahve the same points with different record??? Man...retard!!!!!! Can't believe people actually put win as first in a tie breaker......
Environment: mach/arch : sparc/sun4 (IPX) OS : SunOS 4.1.3 X11 : X11R5 (patchlevel 22) Motif : 1.2.2 I bring up X server using 'startx' and /usr/bin/X11/Xsun. The following sequence of actions crashes the X server (SIGPIPE, errno=32, 'xinit' reports that connexion to X server lost): 1. xinit -- Xsun 2. start mwm 3. start a client with a 100dpi/75dpi font. 4. move the window by dragging the title bar. The server dumps core due to SIGPIPE. One of the two messages is printed: "Connection to X server lost" or "Connection broken (errno=32)" (I believe the first is reported by a client and the second by the server itself). Next, I ran xdm in debug level = 5. After the same set of actions, xdm reports: select returns -1 Server for :0 terminated unexpectedly: status 2560 Note: * The problem doesn't occur with other window managers (twm or olwm). * I have not set LD_LIBRARY_PATH. * I am not running font server. * If I start the client with fixed width font, I do not see this problem. * My font path: /usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi (I did mkfontdir in /usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi, /usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi, /usr/lib/X11/fonts/PEX, /usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo, and in /usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc). * This problem seems to occur only on IPX machines. I do not see this problem on IPC workstations. Questions: * What the hell is goin on ? :-) * What does "status 2560" mean (of the server). I'd greatly appreciate any hints as to the cause of the problem.
As I understand it was considered unsafe for the tv networks to get any closer. Surely the networks can judge the risks of reporting for themselves. I haven't noticed CNN being banned from Baghdad hotels yet despite the (all too real) risk of having a cruise missile land in the lobby. Incidentally has that ever been explained or are we to assume that out of the whole of the city an off-course missile just happened to hit that hotel at a probability of about 1 in some very large number? Unsafe for who I wonder?
They sure make it sound like that. Even a simpleton knows a baseball bat is considered a deadly weapon. If one cannot run away (e.g. old, infirm, even middle-aged if the assailant is younger), a handgun is the most effective means of defense. You won't even have to fire a shot 98% of the time. Any real streetfighter (and there are LOTS of them), with or without a knife, will kick the living sh** out of most people "trained in unarmed self defense". For the majority of people, a gun is the most effective form of self defense.
CALL FOR PAPERS The Internet Society Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security 3-4 February 1994, Catamaran Hotel, San Diego, California The symposium will bring together people who are building software and hardware to provide network or distributed system security services. The symposium is intended for those interested in practical aspects of network and distributed system security, rather than in theory. Symposium proceedings will be published by the Internet Society. Topics for the symposium include, but are not limited to, the following: * Design and implementation of services--access control, authentication, availability, confidentiality, integrity, and non-repudiation --including criteria for placing services at particular protocol layers. * Design and implementation of security mechanisms and support services--encipherment and key management systems, authorization and audit systems, and intrusion detection systems. * Requirements and architectures for distributed applications and network functions--message handling, file transport, remote file access, directories, time synchronization, interactive sessions, remote data base management and access, routing, voice and video multicast and conferencing, news groups, network management, boot services, mobile computing, and remote I/O. * Special issues and problems in security architecture, such as -- very large systems like the international Internet, and -- high-speed systems like the gigabit testbeds now being built. * Interplay between security goals and other goals--efficiency, reliability, interoperability, resource sharing, and low cost. GENERAL CHAIR: Dan Nessett, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory PROGRAM CHAIRS: Russ Housley, Xerox Special Information Systems Rob Shirey, The MITRE Corporation PROGRAM COMMITTEE: Dave Balenson, Trusted Information Systems Tom Berson, Anagram Laboratories Matt Bishop, Dartmouth College Ed Cain, U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency Jim Ellis, CERT Coordination Center Steve Kent, Bolt, Beranek and Newman John Linn, Independent Consultant Clifford Neuman, Information Sciences Institute Michael Roe, Cambridge University Rob Rosenthal, U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology Jeff Schiller, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ravi Sandhu, George Mason University Peter Yee, U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration SUBMISSIONS: The committee seeks both original technical papers and proposals for panel discussions on technical and other topics of general interest. Technical papers should be 10-20 pages in length. Panels should include three or four speakers. A panel proposal must name the panel chair, include a one-page topic introduction authored by the chair, and also include one-page position summaries authored by each speaker Both the technical papers and the panel papers will appear in the proceedings. Submissions must be made by 16 August 1993. Submissions should be made via electronic mail to 1994symposium@smiley.mitre.org. Submissions may be in either of two formats: ASCII or PostScript. If the committee is unable to read a PostScript submission, it will be returned and ASCII requested. Therefore, PostScript submissions should arrive well before 16 August. If electronic submission is absolutely impossible, submissions should be sent via postal mail to Robert W. Shirey, Mail Stop Z202 The MITRE Corporation McLean, Virginia 22102-3481 USA All submissions must include both an Internet electronic mail address and a postal address. Each submission will be acknowledged through the medium by which it is received. If acknowledgment is not received within seven days, please contact either Rob Shirey <Shirey@MITRE.org> or Russ Housley <Housley.McLean_CSD@xerox.com>, or telephone Mana Weigand at MITRE in Mclean, 703-883-5397.
Jesus certainly demonstrated the great depth of his love for the children who died today at the Davidian complex. Sorry, but the events today made me even more negative concering organized religion. Cheers, Kent
[deleted] I can't speak for Mr. Cavano, but I understood his comment to refer to the idea that unrecognized pantheism is dangerous to Christians. If we unthinkingly adopt pantheistic ideas that are opposed to Christianity, we can pervert our faith. When we clearly recognize pantheism when we encounter it we have the opportunity to embrace what is consistent with Christianity and reject what isn't. We need to be alert, always thinking and questioning. We must examine the underlying assumptions of every book we read, tv program we watch and socio-political movement we participate in. Ideas are important. Philosophies and doctrines are what give form to the events of our lives. They are the basis from which we live our lives of love and service. The command to love God with all one's mind means no fuzzy- headed drifting from idea to idea. One Christian who acknowledges this is the Pope. It is a frequent theme in his writings. Indeed, thoughtful Christians from most traditions recognize that consumerism has no place in the lives of Christians. It too is a perversion and dangerous to our faith. Thank you, Jack, for pointing out the parallel.
Simple -- if you have a choice between: 1. American manufacturers peddling Cripple Chips with a secret untested algorithm whose keys are held by people with a history of untrustworthy behavoir, or 2. Japanese (to pick the obvious example) manufacturers peddling encryption chips with an algorithm that has faced public scrutiny and keys under the control of the user,
I agree with Carol here. Determining absolutes is, practically speaking, a waste of time. And we easily forget that relative truth is, in fact relative. For example, I recently was asking some children the question "What temperature does water boil at?" I got the answer 212 degrees consistently. I asked if they knew what scale, and was told "It's just 212 degrees. Any scale. That's what all thermometers say." Well, that's sincere, and may be true in the experience of the speaker, but it is simply wrong. IT is NOT an absolute truth. Similarly, Scripture is full of Truth, which we should nurture and cherish, but trying to determine which parts are Absolute Truth and which parts are the manifestations of that in the context of the time and culture in which the text was penned is missing the point. Then religion easily becomes an intellectual head-trip, devoid of the living experience of the indwelling Trinity and becomes dead scholasticism, IMO. [example of head-covering in Church deleted] This was a good example. There may be an Absolute Truth behind the writing, but the simplest understanding of the passage is that the instructions apply to the Corinthians, and not necessarily elsewhere. The instructions may reflect Absolute Truth in the context of first century culture and the particular climate at Corinth, which was having a LOT of trouble with order. Is it Absolute Truth to me? No. And I see no compelling, or even reasonable, reason that it should be. Even the most die-hard literalists do not take all of the Bible literally. I've yet to meet anyone who takes the verse "blessed is he who takes your babies and smashes their heads against the rocks" literally. The Bible was not printed or handed to us by God with color codings to tell us what parts should be interpreted which way. I agree. Very few. And even if we knew them, personally, we may not be able to express that in a way that still conveys Absolute Truth to another. The presence of absence of Absolutes may not make any difference, since I know I can never fully apprehend an Absolute if it walks up and greets me. I can't prove the existence of absolutes. I can only rely upon MY experience. I also trust God's revelation that WE cannot fully comprehend the infinite. Therefore we can't comprehend the Absolutes. So I don't need them. I can never know the essence of God, only the energies by and through which God is manifested to God's creation. So the reality can be that there ARE absolutes, but it is of no practical importance. It's like claiming that the original scriptural autographs were perfect, but copies may not be. Swell. Who cares? It doesn't affect me in any practical useful way. I might as well believe that God has made a lot of electric blue chickens, and that they live on Mars. Maybe God did. So what? Is that going to have ANY effect on how I deal with my neighbor, or God? Whether or not I go to this or that cafeteria for lunch? No. This attitude leads many non-Christians to believe that ALL Christians are arrogant idiots incapable of critical reasoning. Christianity is true, wonderful and sensible. It appeals to Reason, since Reason is an inner reflection of the Logos of God. Explanations that violate that simply appear to be insecure authoritarian responses to a complex world. NOTE: I'm NOT claiming there is no place for authority. That'd be silly. There IS a world of difference between authoritative and authoritarian. Authoritative is en expression of authority that respects others. Authoritarian is en expression of authority that fails to do that, and is generally agressive. Good parents (like God) are authoritative. Many Christians are simply authoritarian, and, not surprisingly, few adults respond to this treatment. Larry Overacker (llo@shell.com) --
This discussion is better followed in talk.politics.space Joseph Cain cain@geomag.gly.fsu.edu cain@fsu.bitnet scri::cain (904) 644-4014 FAX (904) 644-4214 or -0098
A friend of mine is going in later this week for tests to see if has emphysema. His lung capacity has decreased over time. His father died of the disease. He works in woodworking. I believe he has a very occasional cigarette, perhaps one cigarette a day or even less. He tells me this..I've never seen him light up. He has some pretty healthy life style habits, good diet, exercise, meditation, retreats, therapy etc. Anyhow..he is very concerned with this check up. I know really nothing about the disease. I believe it interferes with the lining of the lung being able to exchange oxygen.
The next time you go to church, you can check the better creed, that is, have learned that on the first go around. But what's a body without a little bit a'soul? At the risk of offending everybody, I will interject the 13th century point of view. Christ descended immediately into the bosom of Abraham to set captives captive. He preached to the saved for three days before drawing them with Him back to this earth. I'm no expert on this part, but Matthew (27:52-53) says about the death of Jesus: "tombs were opened, and the bodies of many saints who had fallen asleep were raised. And coming forth from the tombs after his resurrection, they entered the holy city and appeared to many." (NAB) Regarding the hell of the damned, of which you speak, Christ did not see it (Ps 16:10, Acts 2:27), although it saw Him (cf. Is 45:2). Concerning the abodes of the dead, I don't want to subject my brethren to further anguish, so I will direct you to contact me through e-mail if you are genuinely concerned. Your new body might be something like Adam's before his fateful encounter with the Just One (Acts 7:52, CR trans. Vulgate): filled with infused knowledge, absent of concupiscence, and immortal. It would probably be a little glorified, too. I wouldn't recommend it. It's really hot down at the center of the earth! You know, the normal geothermal gradient, and all that. Regards. -- boundary, the catechist
You have only shown that a vast majority ( if not all ) would agree to this. However, there is nothing against a subjective majority. In any event, I must challenge your assertion. I know many societies- heck, many US citizens- willing to trade freedom for "security". --- " Whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. "
"I hold that space cannot be curved, for the simple reason that it can have no properties." "Of properties we can only speak when dealing with matter filling the space. To say that in the presence of large bodies space becomes curved, is equivalent to stating that something can act upon nothing. I, for one, refuse to subscribe to such a view." - Nikola Tesla ---- ET "Tesla was 100 years ahead of his time. Perhaps now his time comes."
"Finally, brethern, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is of good repute, if there is any excellence and if anything worthy of praise, let your mind dwell on these things." Phil. 4:8.
Here! Here! But any call for responsibility and accountability from police is invariably interpreted as being "soft on crime". Being "tough on crime" and building more prisons and seizing more property is the politically astute thing to do these days. And citizen complacency! Don't forget the politicians that write the laws that make it easy for the police agencies to become corrupt. The War on Some Drugs brought us this corruption and only an end to it (legalization) will stop the corruption.
There are no Mariner craft from which we are still receiving data. I believe you are referring to one or more of Pioneers 6 through 9 (launched from December 1965 through November 1968), which were put into solar orbits to study interplanetary space. I recall reading that at least one of them was still functioning 25 years after launch.
But you still get into trouble. For example - how often are crimes of violence not "hate crimes"? The question is then who are you hating? If its another gang member, then its better than if the person you hate is of a differnt color? Also, is it realistic to declare that crimes of hate are worse than crimes of gross negligence? (Like random drive by shootings where they can't be hate crimes because the shooter doesn't know who he is going to hit - he just shoots into the crowd). First, I heard today that there is a good chance that the U.S. instead of New York is going after the bombers. This means no capital punishment. Secondly, double jepardy does help keep the government from going after you for first one murder, then the next, etc. A "sovereign" has essentially one chance with a single fact pattern (such as the World Trade Center bombing). That is why the bombers will in all probability be tried for all the deaths, as well as the property damages, as well as conspiracy, at once. Of course, as we discovered in the Rodney King case, there are two "sovereigns", neither of which can try you twice for the same crime.
Hi, I have a piece of X code that compiles fine on pmax-ul4, pmax_mach, as well as sun4_mach, but whenever it compiles on sun4_411, it gives me undefined ld errors: _sin _cos _pow _floor _get_wmShellWidgetClass _get_applicationShellWidgetClass The following libraries that I linked it to are: -lXaw -lXmu -lXt -lXext -lX11 The makefile is generated off an imake template. Can anyone give me pointers as to what I'm missing out to compile on a sun4_411?
Hi everyone, I have a question regarding my stack on my pc. I am programming in Turbo C 3.0 and my program is rather large (model large too). I keep getting errors that I am running out of memory after a while of running the program. When I compile the program, it says I have 4.45 meg of RAM so I can't seem to explain why it crashes. All it is doing is running in a loop while the operator is idle and after a while of sitting, it will screw up all the variables. This leads me to believe that my stack is filling up and overflowing. Does the program take memory up when it is calling void functions that do not return anything?? I have been working on this problem for days and I would really appreciate any responce. If this is not the correct newsgroup, I will gladly re-post, but this is the only I could find.
Is there an ftp site where I can get the MS speaker sound driver? There's a "sound.exe" file that claims to be the driver but I'm suspicious since it's not a .drv file. Thanks
I was at an interesting seminar at work (UK's R.A.L. Space Science Dept.) on this subject, specifically on a small-scale Solar Sail proposed as a student space project. The guy giving the talk was keen to generate interest in the project. I'll typein the handout he gave out at the meeting. Here goes : The Microlight Solar Sail ------------------------- 1. Introduction The solar sail is a well-established concept. Harnessing the pressure of sunlight, a spacecraft would have unlimited range. In principle, such a vehicle could explore the whole Solar System with zero fuel consumption. However it is more difficult to design a practical solar sail than most people realize. The pressure of sunlight is only about one kilogram per square kilometer. Deploying and controlling the large area of aluminized fabric which would be necessary to transport a 'conventional' type spacecraft is a daunting task. This is why, despite the potential of hte idea, no such craft has actually been launched to date. 2.Design Recent advances in microelectronics make possible a different concept: a tiny sail just a few metres in diameter which could be controlled purely be electronics, with no mechanical parts. Several attitude control methods are feasible: for example the pressure sunlight exerts on a panel of solar cells varies according to whether power is being drawn. The key components of the craft will be a minute CCD camera developed at Edinburgh University which can act as both attitude sensor and data gathering device; solar cells providing ~1 watt power for control and communication; and a directional radio antenna etched onto the surface of the sail itself. Launched as a piggyback payload, the total cost of the mission can be limited to a few tens of thousands of dollars. 3.Missions The craft would be capable of some ambitious missions. For example: a) It could rendezvous with a nearby asteroid from the Apollo or Amor groups. Closeup pictures could be transmitted back to Earth at a low bit rate. b) It could be steered into a lunar polar orbit. Previously unobserved areas around the lunar poles could be viewed. By angling the sail to reflect sunlight downwards, polar craters whose bases never receive sunlight could be imaged. Bright reflections would confirm that volatiles such as water ice have become trapped in these locations.[Immensely valuable information for setting up a manned lunar base, BTW] c) It could be sent to rendezvous with a small asteroid or comet nucleus. Impacting at low speed, a thin wire probe attached to the craft causes it to rebound while capturing a tiny sample is a sharp-edged tube, like performing a biopsy. Returning to Earth, the sail acts as an ideal re-entry parachute: load per unit area 20 gm/m2 ensures that heat is reradiated so efectively that the sail temperature cannot exceed ~300 deg C. The material sample is recovered, enclosed in a small insulating container. Contact: Colin Jack Tel. 0865-200447 Oxford Mathematical Designs, 131 High Street, Oxford OX1 4DH, England -------------------------------- This guy would love to hear from anyone interested in this project or seeking details or anything, and would be most happy to send you more information. Andy --
[followups to talk.politics.guns] rl> Russell Lawrence kr> Karl Rominger kr> I support the right of any citizen with out a criminal history to own and use firearms, regardless of race, gender, and RELIGION. rl> Thanks for admitting that you, yourself, adhere to an illogical dogma. Well, folks in t.p.guns, want to show how Russell's "illogical dogma" is wrong?
Does anyone know of a site where I could ftp some RenderMan shaders? Or of a newsgroup which has discussion or information about RenderMan? I'm new to the RenderMan (Mac) family, and I'd like to get as much info I can lay my hands on. Thanks! Andy Bates. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Andy Bates.
How does one read the betting spreads for baseball? They tend to be something like 8-9 which means it must not be runs! Thanks. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- David Rex Wood -- davewood@cs.colorado.edu -- University of Colorado at Boulder
Well, first you work out how much cold gas you need, then make the tanks big enough. Working out how much cold gas is another problem, depending on vehicle configuration, flight duration, thruster Isp (which couples into storage pressure, which may be a factor in selecting tank wall thickness etc.)
Ah... The joys of networking. I just hope that you forgot the :-> I don't. I use NDW. If you like things to be modular, I think you would love System 7. Instead of adding a line to your autoexec.bat, you just drop the icon into the extensions folder.
Watch from where? Two miles away? Far enough away that whatever really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of a humiliated agency that said (quote!) "Enough is enough." The FBI sent letters to Martin Luther King's wife insinuating that MLK was having an affair! Again, please tell us exactly how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government. I suspect that there were plenty of camerapeople willing to risk small arms fire to get some good footage. These people were told to get the hell out of camera range. Why? Drew
Every time somone writes something and says it is merely describing the norm, it is infact re-inforcing that norm upon those programmed not to think for themselves. The motto is dangerous in itself, it tells the world that every *true* American is god-fearing, and puts down those who do not fear gods. It doesn't need anyone to make it dangerous, it does a good job itself by just existing on your currency. The Desert Brat
YES! Give me his name I would greatly appreciate it. Rich
I guess the cryptowranglers read this group too. But of course I knew that because it is so easy to do. There is not a single doubt in my mind that every byte that passes every significant gateway or 'bone is captured for the colligation of data about __________? (Maybe your name is here). Maybe we should start a newsgroup for the distribution of encrypted posts intended of members of affinity groups with a shared private key. For example at the coming up Cypherpunks meeting, a private key corresponding to that particular meeting could be passed out by a moderator. Minutes, followup comments to other participants, and so on could be posted to the alt.encrypted group for the use of the people who attended. Communiques intended by the group for non-attendees could of course just be signed using the private key but otherwises not encrypted. Starting a alt.encrypted newsgroup rather than just maintaining mailing lists is better for several reasons. First, it would be easier to archive for people who might join a group "late" and who might like to easily read earlier posts; second, traffic analysis to know exactly to whom an affinity message is directed would be foiled; three, a newsgroup is much more public and would serve to publicize available privacy measures on the internet. And it would be fun to accumulate a secret keyring full of such keys -- it beats giving out t-shirts as a door prize. We could send a copy of alt.encrypted directly to Judge William Sessions or Admiral Studeman to save them the time of having it collected for them.
// Hope I am in the right group! I'm using BC++'s ObjectWindows (version 3.1), // trying to get some date processed in a window object. However, when invoking // the window object, the calling program gives up the control to the window // object, and keeps executing the next statement. The source code may look // like the following: class MyWindow : public TWindow { ... }; void MyCallingProg(...) // Could the calling program be a C function? { ... MyWindow *MyWinObj; MyWinObj = new MyWindow(...); GetApplication()->MakeWindow(MyWinObj); MyWinObj->Show(SW_SHOWNORMAL);
This was posted to the firearms-politics mailing list. ============================================================= Hi Folks; Thursday, April 15 marked Day 3 of the trial. This day marked the first testimony of the trial. Deputy U.S. Marshal Larry Cooper took the stand for the prosecution. The short version is that his testimony was consistent with the opening statements for the prosecution. Cooper testified that he had arrived in Spokane (Washington) on August 17, 1992 to participate in a surveillance operation with five other deputies near the Weaver cabin. The team was using night vision equipment for surveillance, and split up into two teams of three people. The six later met at an observation point above the cabin. After this, deputies Cooper, William Degan, and Arthur Roderick began a descent to scout further possible surveillance sites. Cooper told the court that Roderick threw two large rocks into a gully to see, "whether the [Weaver family] dogs would respond." Striker, the Weaver's yellow lab, started toward them barking loudly. Roderick led the three in a run from the area. They ran through some dense woods into an open area [called the "fern field"] with the dog in pursuit. By this time, Kevin Harris and Samuel Weaver had joined the chase. The surveillance team had reached a Y in the road: Cooper decided that they should take cover in the woods because otherwise they would be an easy target and might be "shot in the back." As Degan reached the Y, he spotted Randy Weaver coming down the road from the cabin ahead. Weaver was startled but did not fire. At this moment, Striker reached Degan, and Cooper had to "fend him off with his gun." [It is unclear whether this means he clubbed the dog or shot the dog]. Both Cooper and Degan then took cover in the woods. According to Cooper, Kevin Harris and Samuel Weaver continued walking down the road, apparently not noticing the two. After they had passed by on the road, Degan got up on one knee, raised his gun, and shouted, "Stop! U.S. Marshal!" Harris then "...brought the weapon around at hip level and fired. He didn't bring the weapon up to eye level. I saw Bill's arm going back, and I knew he had been hit." Cooper fired at Harris, and Harris went down. Cooper then brought his weapon to bear on Samuel, but did not fire. At this point, Cooper then heard two shots to his right. Samuel Weaver looked in the direction of the shots, yelled, "You son of a bitch!" and ran toward them. Cooper then realized that shots were coming at him from directly ahead, so he fired a three-round burst at the cabin. At this point he then saw Samuel Weaver running toward the cabin. When Cooper reached Degan, he placed his first two fingers on Degan carotid artery, counted two or three beats, and then his heart stopped. Shortly thereafter, Roderick and the other three marshals joined him. They then all heard a large burst of gunfire from the area around the cabin. On cross-examination, David Nevin questioned the point of throwing rocks into the gulley, asking, "You wanted to lure that dog out so you could shoot that dog, didn't you?" Nevin also pointed out that in last September's testimony, Cooper had claimed that he spotted Weaver after the dog had left him. Cooper claimed that he had gone over the events in his head and decided that Thursday's account was correct. Nevin continued the cross-examination by asking what Cooper would have done had an armed man dressed in full camouflage jumped out of the woods at him [no answer was available]. Friday, April 16 marks continued cross-examination of Cooper. Notes: There was no coverage of protestors. Drew ==============================================================
*Teddy O'Neill-Creature with furry Hobbit feet from Bath UK*, a sentimental fool, posts: With the force of a world-wide youth movement, it ought to be possible to establish a coordinated global program to accomplish the strategic goal of completely eliminating the internal combustion engine over, say, a twenty year period. Evidently there are no open questions, either scientific or about how people prefer to live.
Tom Prince is a 28 year old no-hit catcher. Think of him as a young Dann Bilardello. I can't begin to fathom why the Pirates have been so afraid of losing this guy, who's been in AAA most of the last 5 seasons. The Pirates released Kirk Gibson last year because Prince was out of options, then eventually sent Prince down anyway, and he cleared waivers without a peep. He's another year older, and still can't hit; why do they think he wouldn't clear waivers now? Why would they care?
[ -and many others mailed me. Here is a reply to one of the letters. Seems to me that atheist do not like the doctrine of hell!] Your using 20th century concepts to interprete 1st century writers. Of course, in your termonology, God could not "cease to exist." However, that is not what death ever means in the Scriptures. If you will study the word, you will see that it signifies "separation." Death is separation, not ceastation. This is the reason for the agony of the cross. For the first time in eternity, one member of the Godhead was separated from the other two. I once met a young lady that was as beautiful as any model that ever lived. She was as personable as any saint ever imagined. She was to become my "girlfriend" for several years. However, having been drafted, we were separated by distance. To me that was a form of death. Later, she decided that she couldn't wait for me to come home and bid me adue. That to me was death. It was separation from that which had made me whole. Death is separation and eternal death is eternal separation from His fellowship, not because He chose to send you into outer darkness, but because you chose to go there. When I rebelled against my earthly father, he spanked me. I found no wisdom in that until I had grown older and especially until I had my own children. He was trying to guide me away from hurt that would enter my life if I continued on my suicidal course. He did it in love though I interpreted it as harsh and unloving. If God warns of impending danger, that is love. If choose to let us do as we please, and then at the end tell us the rules, that would be harsh. You have a conscience, no matter how calused or fallen it is, that witnesses to you that a thing is wrong and that there is cause for fear. This may give light to the error of your understanding. One must have correct knowledge in order to have correct faith. Faith and knowledge are inseparable. Jesus most certainly felt the "pinpricks" of life. As the Scripture say: Heb. 4:15 For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. The kenosis passage of Phil 2 states that He gave up His Godhead attributes when He took upon Himself humanity. It has been a favorite meditation of mine to think about this. It was to be my PhD thesis. "The Consciousness of Christ." I have talked at length with a great many people about this interesting study, including clh. It is my conclussion that as Jesus, the 2nd member of the Trinity, actually suffered as we do. He became part of the human race and experienced it as we do. He "grew in knowledge." He chose not to grasp His omniscience, but chose to be taught. It is my understanding that He was "led of the Spirit" to such an extent that sometimes it is hard to distinquish between Jesus the man and Jesus as God. But in Jn 8 where the adulterous women was thrown before Him, the tenses are quite clear in that the whole situation took Him by surprise. That is, He was not aware that this event was to take place in time. He was living sequential history as you or I. Maybe some other time we can discuss this, but it is a very lengthy discussion and one that causes the curcuit breakers of the brain to pop more often than not. I was once a member of that club. THe "free thinker" is a glorious ideal. By contrast, of course, you believe that the believer is the unforunate repository of everything that is dogmatic, inhibited, reactionary and repressive. I find such a stance to be as amusing as it is absurd. If the liberal humanist wishes to criticize a Christian or a Buddhist or a Marxist, that is his right. But what he must not pretend is that he was led to this solely by his "rational doubt" when in fact he was led to it by his "faith". He must acknowledge that while it is rational doubt for him as a "free thinker" to criticize the Christian, it might equally be a rational doubt for the Christian to criticize him as a humanist. If there is no faith, there can be no dout. There is no faith which cannot choose to cast doubt on some other faith. Pascal pointed out that "sceptical arguments allow the positive to be positive. Few. . .speak dubiously of scepticism." The fact that skeptics are not skeptical about skepticism is further evidence that to doubt anything we must believe in something else! THe person who is skeptical toward one faith or even most faiths, will be the devoted adherent of another. In fact, it is a measure of his poverty both that he is unaware of it and that he can define himself only in negative terms, hence the term "a"-theist. Some people claim otherwise and argue vociferously for complete skepticism. In my campus ministry I ran across this more times than I care to remember. However, they disproved their own argument with every thought, every word, every point of logic that they used. Every moment of shared communication speaks against their total skepticism. Their very insistence of trying to make sense is eloquent testimony to assumptions that are powerful though silent. That is to say, that complete skepticism is impossible and limited skepticism is arbitrary. Next time you're in a room of skeptics, yell out "Look, your fly is undone!" Each person chooses what he is skeptical about and what he believes without skepticism. To stress this is to belabor the obvious, but it underlines the point that no one can know exhaustively how he knows what he knows. Pure objectivism is a myth and complete skepticism an impossiblity. The answer to this impasse lies in a 3rd way of knowing, one which is based on presuppositions. But if knowledge proceeds on what must be presupposed before it is proved, the cover is blown on the pretentions of critical doubt, and critical doubt depends on the idea that human knowledge is totally objective and neutral. In other words, another myth. Presuppositions my friend. It is impossible to doubt anything unless there is something we do not doubt -our own assumptions/presuppostions. Even these can be criticezed only upon the basis of other assumptions. Presuppostitons are our silent partners in thought but their silence must not be mistaken for absence. Of course that is hardly an original statement. Milton coined it but it had been in use for millenia. It was even used in the first "Highlander" movie. But again, your presuption is based on a faulty knowledge of the character of God. You are operating off of a presuppositional premise of humanistic theology, not what He has revealed of Himself through history, through His prophets, through His Word, and lastly, but most of all, thru His Son. If you are to reject God's annointed savior, then reject Him from a correct understanding of Himself.
Yo--earth to Clayton--*my* philosophy? I have never discussed this with you. I know it's a minor point, but, gee, dude, you have no idea what economic and political principles I adhere to. But don't let that stop you--you're on a roll. Just ascribe to me whatever you want--I know you'll choose wisely. After all, I *do* believe in personal responsibility. Duh. What else would you *expect* a socialist to do? (a) Just when and where have I encouraged people not to be responsible for themselves? Be specific--but do make up random dates and heinous acts as you see fit. (b) You and I have encouraged many people to do many things. How does that in any way make our audiences less responsible for their actions? Is there a finite amount of responsibility, so (cf. conservation of energy) as I become more responsible for an occurrence by encouraging it the actual perpetrator becomes correspondingly less so? At what point does the perpetrator become completely innocent altogether? You know, this lends a whole new meaning to the term "the moral high ground". I will pass the info on. Out of curiosity, what kind of jobs would these be? What's the demographic mix wrt race, age, culture? Life's a bitch, ain't it? Man, you've got to get out of Fornicalia--have you considered someplace perhaps geographically distant but politically more friendly to you, like, say, Indiana? Or maybe Utah? I don't doubt it, but unless you can show me statistics to the contrary I will persist in my apparently dogmatic socialist belief (hey, if *you* say so) that most AFDC money really does--for better or worse in the long term--feed FDCs.
It depends. If you can get your old veterans cheap, and if they can perform at a higher level than your young talent can *now*, why not the talent develop in the minors while giving the fans some familiar names to cheer. If the veterans are gone in a year or two -- that should be just about right. Open question -- which was more important to the expansion clubs, the expansion draft or the regular draft. (They've had one of each, I think.) -- Dale J. Stephenson |*| (steph@cs.uiuc.edu) |*| Baseball fanatic
I have heard that epileptic patients go into seizures if they eat anything with MSG added. This may have something to do with the excitotoxicity of neurons.
I don't know how quickly YOU can get a woodstove to heat up from a cold start, but mine takes about three hours. Mox nix. The BD's were prepared to provide their own heat and light, and were doing so for weeks while the power was out. That means the compound contained containers of flammable liquids or gases (that could be busted by a tank intrusion), plus ignition sources, which no one can tell for sure were all off at the time. On the contrary. We are proposing alternate scenarios. The people who are coming to wild conclusions are the feds, who are absolutely positive how the fire started, even though none of them were in a position to see it, either (and the stories they "hear" from their prisoners changes hourly). --
: : And thank the Lord that Bill Connor has returned to set : us straight! Now I know I can die happy when my Lexus : SE400 wipes out on that rain-slick curve in 1997. The : rest of you had best straighten up, because your time : is even more limited. Most of you are going in the Flu : of 1994. Maddi, You know you're glad to have me visit ... But I won't stay long this time, just shopping around.
Listen, *ASSHOLE*, I'm just commenting on what I heard reported on the sports news!! You'll notice my skeptical comment! Sheesh... I thought this group wasfor conversation! Guess I was wrong. }-<
Are you assuming that families in the inner city don't have family values ? I sure hope not.
Apparently, my editor didn't do what I wanted it to do, so I'll try again. i'm looking for any programs or code to do simple animation and/or drawing using fractals in TurboPascal for an IBM Thanks in advance
Here is another way of looking at it. When we die we are released from the arc of time, and able to comprehend our lives in toto. To visit each moment in time sequentially or all at once, but not able to alter the actions thoughts or feelings we had/have/will have in this life. From that perspective, I posit that all will have direct knowledge of God, and be able to recognize at each moment of time wether we were doing what we ought. That the experience of having lived a life far from God will be an eternal torment. That having lived a life of grace, will be an eternal joy. That the resurrection of the body comes not from any physical reconstitution of our present forms, but knowledge of our present forms by our fully cognizant souls. As an Aside: If we were to be restricted for all time to our present form, would you opt for immortality? James Sledd
Is their a pd/freeware hard drive utility that can handle a compressed IDE drive without screwwing it up? Need to document occasional failures in reading/writing, check overall integrity of disk's hardware and sectors. I believe that all of my problems with DOS/Windows can be isolated to my drive. Getting occasional corrupted files, even with smartdrive, 32 bit access turned off. Had these problems under DOS 5. Only with drive C. Drive D may have had one failure, but that file was under the control of Win/Winword on drive C. All utilities available to me report no problems. DOS, NDD (NU4.5). Another symptom, SD took forever on C, and kicked me out with a suspension till NDD run 6 to 8 times. Thanks.
I recall that the issue is that fat on the meat liquifies and then drips down onto the hot elements--whatever they are--that the extreme heat then catalyzes something in the fat into one or more carcinogens which then are carried back up onto the meat in the smoke.
I remember reading about a program that made windows icons run away from the mouse as it moved near them. Does anyone know the name of this program and the ftp location (probably at cica)
There is another useful method based on Least Sqyares Estimation of the sphere equation parameters. The points (x,y,z) on a spherical surface with radius R and center (a,b,c) can be written as (x-a)^2 + (y-b)^2 + (z-c)^2 = R^2 This equation can be rewritten into the following form: 2ax + 2by + 2cz + R^2 - a^2 - b^2 -c^2 = x^2 + y^2 + z^2 Approximate the left hand part by F(x,y,z) = p1.x + p2.x + p3.z + p4.1 For all datapoints, i.c. 4, determine the 4 parameters p1..p4 which minimise the average error |F(x,y,z) - x^2 - y^2 - z^2|^2. In 'Numerical Recipes in C' can be found algorithms to solve these parameters. The best fitting sphere will have - center (a,b,c) = (p1/2, p2/2, p3/2) - radius R = sqrt(p4 + a.a + b.b + c.c). So, at last, will this solve you sphere estination problem, at least for the most situations I think ?.
It's just as meaningless to compare goals, assists, PIM and any other stat I can think of. Each player is asked to take a unique role for his team. The contexts will never be the same from one player to another playing on the same team or different teams. And yet ... awards are given and promotions received based in part on these meaningless stats. The operative words are "in part" - stats must be interpreted, tempered with other information one has about the player. And comparing Jagr's and Francis's points is just as ridiculous and absurd... but not more ridiculous and absurd as comparing goals, assists, points, +\- for Selanne, Lindros, Juneau, Potvin, and the other rookies in the league... and yet... How about looking at them for what they are and enjoy the game.
Yes, but whose freedom? The world in general doesn't seem to value the freedom of Tibetans, for example.
Hmmmmm......what about their kids? cpk -- It's been 80 days. Do you know where your wallet is?
good job to whoever posted the article. I'd been saving that NYTimes edition for a while, planning to ytpe it in myself, but now I don't have to. For all of those people who were worried about whether or not the media would even question the raid, we owe it to the NY Times (despite their rabidly anti-gun editorials) for being willing to talk to these 4 BATF agents.
I have a toggleButton widget (yes widget) and I have a routine which changes the color of the foreground and background of the label. Well, the background changes alright, but the label text does not redraw itself. I am guessing that I have to force it to redraw with an XExposeEvent sent to it via XSendEvent. Is this the best way to get the text up again? I can't seeem to get XSEndEvent to work right.... if this is a good approach, might anyone have an example lying around to show me how to do this? I've RTFM all evening and did not find a decent example. PS I keep getting Segmentation Faults in XSEndEvent, tho all the values are as expected. Thanks in Advance
Hi all News Group users: Does anyone know whether there is some software which will let one do Text to Speach like the Sound Blaster does? Hal Adam, HADAM@bcsc02.gov.bc.ca
If a X-window package exists, that runs om PC, DOS (and maybe MS-windows) I would be very happy to hear about it. Thanx in advance.
Hi! I remember reading (or hallucinating) that NCD's PC-Xremote functionality had been given, by NCD, to MIT for inclusion in X11R6. Is this true? If so, (set mode/cheap) can I just wait for X11R6 to get compressed serial line X server support? Thanks!
Hi there!... Well, i have a 386/40 with SVGA 1Mb. (OAK chip 077) and i don't have VESA TSR program for this card. I need it . Please... if anybody can help me, mail me at: lulagos@araucaria.cec.uchile.cl
That's a typical claim, though they say they've improved compression speed considerably. Did you find out anything else about the book? I'd be interested in looking at it if you could give me any pointers. Reportedly, early fractal compression times of 24-100 hours used that marvelous piece of hardware called "grad students" to do the work. Supposedly it's been automated since about 1988, but I'm still waiting to be impressed.
The one I got only does about 4kb/s in text and 320x200 (VGA/MCGA) mode, which is almost identical to the other W5186 based cards (ATI 68800 does about 6kb/s). This is weird since the Orchid supposedly should be much faster (and I was told by someone that it can do almost 16 kb/s), since the VGA chip is covered by the Orchid label, I can't really tell for sure if it uses a 5286 chip, but the spec. sheet that comes with the board (no docs!) did say it has 1 meg dram and uses a 5286 chip. Winmarks (3.11) is about 4 mil. slower than a Viper (34 vs ~38) using standard palette. BTW if anyone is insterested, I'm trying to sell a Diamond Viper (2 megs vram) for a friend for $300, email if interested (I'm too broke to take it myself). I think it's available in limited quantites. No idea of what VGA chip it uses though. Be very careful with OEM P9000 boards though, the Orchid I got for example only has a readme file on disk that serve as documentation, and conflicts the hell with my VLB controller card (or maybe it's my motherboard, an A.I.R. 486 VLB)
[..] Hello. Firstly, what do you exactly mean by "fundamentalist"? I will for the time being assume that what you mean is that your friend believes that the bible is God's word to mankind? I suspect that what happened to him is what he'll call being "born again"? Anyway, was that recent? If the answer is "yes" to all the questions above, it is quite understandable. However, IMO, I'ld rather give advice to your friend! I think I've been through something similar to him, and one thing I can say is that the basic problem is that each of you are now trying to communicate from different worldviews. Why he talks about those things is because they are now "obvious" to him. What is "obvious" to him is not obvious to you. Secondly, why he may be very persuasive is because from his point of view, he has been on "both sides of the fence". This I mean that before he turned "fundamentalist", you two are agreeable because both of you see things from the same side. If suddenly, as if a new world of reality has suddenly opened up to him, it is like the discovery of let's say a new continent, or a new planet. To him, he's got to tell you because he has seen something much more wonderful than where he was, and what he thinks is much better than where you are now. You have got to realise that from his point of view, he means well to you, eventhough he may end up offending you. To him, it is worth that risk. Nevertheless, it is really up to him to respect where you stand and listen to you as well. At this moment, it may be difficult because he is either very excited or feel it is too urgent to keep quiet about, however, he may not realise that he's really putting you off. [...] So far, I've only been trying to explain things from his side. However, I do understand how you feel too, because I wasn't a Christian for a good part of my life as well. I was quite turned off by Christians or "fundamentalists" who were really all out and enthusiastic about their faith. They really scared me, to tell you the truth. Unfortunately, "religious belief" is a very personal thing, just as your agnosticism is also a very personal thing to you. Since the Christian belief is inevitably at odds with anything non-Christian (religious or otherwise), it will be a touchy matter. Like all friendships, it will take both sides to do their part to make it work. In this matter, maybe you can do your part by telling him nicely that you are not able to dig what he's trying to convince you about, that it's beyond you or not your concern "for now". Don't tell him it's nonsense, because to him it is reality - and that would be a real insult. He'll also have to be careful not to insult where you stand too. Like I said before, I wish I could give your friend some advice too. I'll admit that I did similarly to some of my friends when I became a Christian. In some ways, I wish I could have done things a little differently. However, it was difficult then because I was so excited and just blabbered away about what I've found! To me, it was too good not to know. To some, I was crazy, and I didn't really care most of the time what they thought. You will probably think he's crazy too - but God is very real to him, as real as you are to him. Keep that in mind. And he thinks he can convince you because since God is so real to him, he doesn't see why God can't be real to you too. I don't know how helpful this is to you. But all the best anyhow - this is quite a challenge for you to face. By the way, personal conviction: nobody is "beyond saving" except the one we call the devil and his hosts.
I apologize for posting this. I thought it was only going to talk.origins. I also took my definitions from a 1938 Websters. Nonetheless, the apparent past arguments over these words imply that like 'bimonthly' and 'biweekly' they have no commonly accepted definitions and should be used with care.
Neil Gehrels is Prof. Tom Gehrels son. Tom Gehrels was the discoverer of P/Gehrels 3 (as well as about 4 other comets - the latest of which does not bear his name, but rather the name "Spacewatch" since he was observing with that system when he found the latest comet). --------------------------------------------- Jim Scotti {jscotti@lpl.arizona.edu} Lunar & Planetary Laboratory University of Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721 USA
-> > This mention of a well regulated militia is what confuses me. According -> > to the Federalist Paper's, a well regulated militia has a well defined -> > structure and follows nationally uniform regulations. -> -> Perhaps you should actually READ the Federalist Papers!! Perhaps you should, reread Federal 29 which deals exclusively with the "well regulated malitia." Here is what is says about its character: To oblige the great body of the yeomanry, and of the other classes of the citizens, to be under arms for the purpose of going through military exercises and evolutions, as often as might be necessary to acquire the degree of perfection which would entitle them to the character of a well-regulated militia, It also talks about the "well regulated militia" having a nationally uniform in structure and disipline. I will note you did quote the end of this particular paragraph which states: Little more can reasonably be aimed at, with respect to the people at large, than to have them properly armed and equipped; and in order to see that this be not neglected, it will be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the course of a year. But, do you knew how much organization is required to training a large group of poeple twice a year. Just to try to get the same people every year, provide a basic training to new people so they can be integrated into the force, and find a suitable location, it requires a continually standing committee of organizers. Since a well regulate militia is nationally uniform in structure and disipline, and meet once or twice a year to train, how can you claim a "well regulated militia" is not well organized. But I will concide a "well organized militia" is not necessarily a "well regulated militia." Several people have stated that the "well organized militia" is what is defined under 10 USC 311, which states The militia of the United States consists of all able-bodied males at least 17 years of age and, except as provided in section 313 of title 32, under 45 years of age who are, or who have made a declaration of intention to become, citizens of the United States and of female citizents of the United States who are commissioned officers of the National Guard. This deos define the militia, but were is the adjective "well regulated." 10 USC 311 does not define a "well regualed militia" in any way, shape, or form. It only defines who can become part of a well regulated militia The Federalist Papers CLEARLY define the "well regualed militia" as a proper SUBSET of the militia. In the same paragraph quoted above, it talk above "disciplining all the militia of the United States" so they fit the "character of a well-regulated militia." This is what the paragraph states about the associated costs: It would form an annual deduction from the productive labor of the country, to an amount which, calculating upon the present numbers of the people, would not fall far short of the whole expense of the civil establishments of all the States. To attempt a thing which would abridge the mass of labor and industry to so considerable an extent, would be unwise: and the experiment, if made, could not succeed, because it would not long be endured. Another quote provide by Charles Scripter is: James Madison, Federalist Paper 41 (regarding the "General Welfare" clause): "Nothing is more natural nor common than first to use a general phrase, and then to explain and qualify it by a recital of particulars." So the phrase "the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed" must either qualify or explain the phrase "a well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state." The definition of "explain" as stated in "The American Hertitage Dictionary of the Enlish Language" The New College Edition, 1982 is: 1) To make plain or comprehensible; remove obscruity from; elucidate: "It was the economists who undertook to explain this puzzle" 2) To define; explicate; expound: He explained his plan. 3) To offer reasons for or a cause of; an answer for' justify: explain an error The second phrase clearly does not "explain" the first, therefore the second phrase must "qualify" the first. The definition given for "qualify" is: 1) To describe by enumerating the characteristics or qualities of; characterize. 2) To make competent or suitable for office, position, or task. 3) To give legal power to; make legally capable. 4) To modify, limit, or restrict, as giving exceptions. 5) To make less harsh or severe; moderate 6) Grammar: To modify the meaning of (a word or phrase) Since "the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed" does not describe, modify or make less harsh anything and it has nothing to do with grammar or some sort of position or task. By process of elimination it must fall into definition #3. And since #3 deals with legal power, the same thing the Constitution does, it must be the correct definition in this case. Therefore, "the right of the people to keep and bear Arms" gives legal power to the "well regualated militia" and this legal power "shall not be infringed". I thank you very much Mr Scripter, you have provided me with more evidence that the Second Amendment only concerns itseft with the people's right to form well regulate militia, and says very little about the right of an untrained person to "keep and bear" a .50 caliber machine gun. And since I, totally untrained in the use of any firearm (something I personly have meant to correct by going to a NRA gun safety course and joining a gun club), cannot legally buy such a machine gun, I conclude the courts and democraticly elected congress agree with me. -> So now we know which category Mr. Rutledge is in; He means to destroy -> our Liberties and Rights. I mean "to destory our Liberties and Rights." Is that why a participate in the discussion of exactly what "our Libertues and Rights" are? I force my version of "our Liberties and Rights" by begining statements of what "our Liberties and Rights" with "All that the Second Amendment clearly states to me." Using expressions, such as "states to me," clearly mean I intend to force my views on others? I don't think so. So in effort not to force my views and not "to destory our Liberties and Rights," I state that nothing I have written, or will write, in the matter of "Liberties and Rights" is the final word. For I am only one person among many and the final word on "Liberties and Rights" cleary and irrevocably belongs to the many.
This past week I've been playing with some of the R-D (Reaction- Diffusion, not to be confused with RDS or R&D) techniques from SIGGRAPH '91. I was wondering what material is available to explain the control mechanism a little more. It seems to me very much like a matter of picking random magic numbers and sitting back and waiting. Although both of the papers (Turk and Witkin & Kass) were very well organized and extremely helpful, I guess what I need is a more basic description of the technique, especially wrt the control mechanisms. The tests that I did had a tendency to either turn into blurry mud or become unstable. Is there any info available online? Source code would be great but not necessary. Thanks! --
:Just a bit off, Phil. We don't reprocess nuclear fuel because what :you get from the reprocessing plant is bomb-grade plutonium. It is :also cheaper, given current prices of things, to simply fabricate new :fuel rods rather than reprocess the old ones, creating potentially :dangerous materials (from a national security point of view) and then :fabricate that back into fuel rods. Fabricating with reprocessed plutonium may result in something that may go kind of boom, but its hardly decent bomb grade plutonium. If you want bomb grade plutonium use a research reactor, not a power reactor. But if you want a bomb, don't use plutonium, use uranium.
I have a small Windows program which I can not get to work; The program looks vaguely like this: ============================================= char f1[80]; int WinMain(... { lstrcpy ((LPSTR)f1, "Hello"); ... } long far pascal WndProc(... { lstrcpy ((LPSTR)f1, "Hello"); ... } ============================================= I am using large model under Windows 3.1; after linking without errors, the RC program said Sorting preload segments and resources into fast-load section Copying segment 1 (53679 bytes) RC : fatal error RW1031: Segment 1 and its relocation information is too large for load optimization. Make the segment LOADONCALL or rerun RC using the -K switch if the segment must be preloaded. Using the -K switch seems to interfere with the proper function of the second lstrcpy call... can anybody explain what is going on and/or how to fix it?
Hello folks! I have an Archive XL5580 (internal QIC-80) tape drive, which is pretty comparable to the Colorado Jumbo 250. Since I have two floppy drives in my system, I'm using a small card (not accelerated) made by Archive to attach my tape drive as a third floppy device. The problem: Although the DOS-based QICstream software works just fine, both the Norton and Central Point backup programs for Windows fail unless I switch the machine to non-turbo speed (I'm using a 486DX/33 EISA). Since the DOS software works, it can't be a hardware problem, can it? Has anyone seen similar problems? Any solutions? Thanks in advance.
Why did I get sucked into this? Assuming you're serious, I guess you'd be surprised to hear that us GUYS don't think so. I would guess that a tiny fraction of 1% of the folks reading your post agree with it. I kind of doubt that even you agree with it. I'm not going to go through your points one at a time, because, after all, not many of them have anything at all to do with baseball. I'm only replying to this because you brought up Pam Postema, the AAA umpire who sued (is suing?) baseball on the grounds of sex discrimination because she wasn't promoted to the majors. I've never seen her ump a game. I have no first hand experience with her ability as an umpire. But I have seen her on talk shows. And her point seems to be that she can call balls and strikes as well as any of the umpires and she knows the rulebook better than most. It seems to me that she is missing the point and if that's how she sees the role of umpires in the game, well I wouldn't promote her either. The umpires primary role has nothing to do with calling baserunners safe or out; hell, Joe Lundy could do that. Their primary function is to maintain order in the game, keep the game moving, and keep the players from trying to kill each other. Umpires have to be extremely tough people. That disqualifies most of us, both men and women. And if Ms. Postema thinks that she deserves to be a major league umpire because of her command of the rulebook, then I think that disqualifies her as well. Umpires need to command the game; command of the rulebook is secondary.
Dale Hawerchuk and Troy Murray were both captains of the Jets when they were traded. (Murray this year in mid-season, Hawerchuk a few years ago in the off-season.)
That's nothing. They wouldn't let the British buy Inmos Transputer systems because of security concerns. And we designed the damn things!
*thud* (see .sig)
This posts contains too many fallacies to respond too. 1) The abolishment of divinity requires the elimination of freewill. You have not shown this. You have not even attempted to. However, the existance of an Omniscience being does eliminate freewill in mortals.* * Posted over five months ago. No one has been able to refute it, nor give any reasonable reasons against it. -- "Satan and the Angels do not have freewill. They do what god tells them to do. "
Remember the OT doctrine of 2 witnesses? Perhaps the prophets testified He is coming. The Apostles, testified He came.
Does anyone know the phone number to a place where i can get a VGA passthrough? I want to hook up my VGA card to my XGA card (whcih you can can). All I need is the cable that connects them. It is the same type of cable that you would connect from your VGA card to say a Video Blaster or something.
A 68070 is just a 68010 with a built in MMU. I don't even think that Moto. manufactures them. - Ian Romanick Dancing Fool of Epsilon
Dear Xperts: I want to place a specific group of icons in an icon box and have my other icons appear outside of the box. Does anyone know if there's a way I can do this?? I'm using X11R5 and Motif 1.2.1.
They come with every Iris now. Nth also ships it with their latest version of Nth Portable GL. I just got the update a couple of weeks ago. I would assume that Silicon Graphics would license the source to you so that you can include it in your company's GL offering.
But what about second sources for pin-compatible non-Clipper algorithm chips that also have escrowed keys? If a "reputable firm" produces a chip (with escrowed key) that is a pop-in replacement for the Clipper chip in my phone, and uses an algorithm that is widely known and evaluated and "trusted," then what's the problem? The Clipper is going to be reverse engineered anyway by any organization with sufficient resources (can you say "billions of cocaine dollars?") so those drug dealers they're so worried about will be slipping through the cracks. We law-abiding (non-incredibly-wealthy) citizens, naturally, will not have this recourse. But claiming that the algorithm can't be released to prevent people from using non-key-escrowed chips is plain deceitful... analysis of the chip output will provide information on the necessary headers and whatnot, so the "bad guys" could build chips using a *different* algorithm and still not escrow their keys. Or, they could just buy bunches of cheap phones at K-mart every week, and play Swap-the-Clipper-Chip with their cellular phone every day.
I'm posting this for a friend: I have an immediate need for a polygon-based hidden-line removal program. I can deal with any input/output format, but I need to be able to do perspective views in any orientation and range. Is there a public-domain hidden-line program around? It seems like there should be, but I have not been able to locate one.
The product you mention is XVideo from Parallax Graphics in Santa Clara, California, US. You can read our product review in the Jan/Feb '93 issue of The X Journal. That issues focuses on Multimedia and X, in which there are also a number of other useful items, including an article on Video in an X Window. Fax our New York office at 212.274.0646 for information on obtaining back issues. Steve
: Could somebody explain to me what a centrifuge is and what it is : used for? I vaguely remembre it being something that spins test tubes : around really fast but I cant remember why youd want to do that? Purely recreational. They get bored sitting in that rack all the time.
Sorry, _perijoves_...I'm not used to talking this language.
It is silly to make this statement. Fifteen minutes after the fire started, the "official word" out of FBI headquaters in DC was that the DV's committed suicide. It would seem logical that the lantern story has more credibility. You can't even to pretend to know for sure what happened... although Clinton is doing just that.
Of course, the list has to agree with the nickname laws laid down by the GIPU almost 2000 years ago (you know... the 9 of them that were written on the iron tablets that melted once and had to be reinscribed?). Since I am a prophet of the GIPU I decree that you should post the whole list of nicknames for the frequent posters here!
Does anyone out there have any info on the up and coming fall comdex '93? I was asked by one of my peers to get any info that might be available. Or, could anyone point me in the right direction? Any help would be appreciated.
: (lots of stuff about the Nicene Creed deleted which can be read in the original basenote. I will also leave it up to other LDS netters to take Mr. Weiss to task on using Mormon Doctrine to declare the difinitive word on what the LDS Church teaches as doctrine. Hopefully the LDS netters will be amiable in their explanation.) Since it would do no good to rebut what Mr. Weiss has stated on the origin of the Nicene Creed and its status as devine and inspired (I say "no good" because it cannot be proved through discussion or debate as to whether or not the authors of the Creed were inspired), I leave you (it will be some time before I post again) with the following thought authored by Eugene England, Professor of English at Brigham Young University. Mr. England wrote the following as part of a book review section in This People's magazine (Spring 1993 edition): "I conclude with a little sermon because I believe we will not be a Mormon-- or human--family until we can get over labeling and rejecting each other with terms like feminist or patriarchal, liberal or conservative (Christian or non-Christian -- Hal 8^). When we are tempted to draw a circle around a set of beliefs and traditions and styles and call it American, then exclude those who don't fit, it may be well to consider that perhaps the most central defining characteristic of a good American might be "one who doesn't draw exclusive circles" -- that the surest way of excluding ourselves from the central American ideal is by excluding others. And when we are tempted to draw a circle around "Mormon" or "Christian," to decide who is "orthodox" and who isn't by how much they agree with us, it might be well to consider that the central pillar of Christ's "orthodoxy" is our ability to love unconditionally those who are different and include them in our family. "I recently spent some time in a "Christian" bookstore in California. The service was excellent, the clerks and customers all smiling, neat, and well-scrubbed, and there were the expected wholesome offerings of scriptural commentaries, sentimental fiction, and collections of evangelistic sermons. But I was dismayed to find how much shelf space was given to attacking others, often viciously---whether the political left, our modern American culture, or other religions. A whole section was devoted to "Cults and the Occult," and as you might expect, Mormonism was right there under the same rubric and indictment (often by the same authors) as Satanism. And I found I could either rent or buy (in English or Spanish) copies of The God Makers (that absurdly inaccurate, even libelous, but very popular and dangerous anti-Mormon film that uses exaclty the same techniques and even accusations of the Nazi films that scapegoated Jews in the 1930s). "It seems to me one major indication that a person is a genuine convert to Christ and his redemptive love is his lack of paranoia and anxiety ("Perfect love casteth out fear," I John 4:18). I have always been pleased that the LDS Church has not engaged in attacks on other faiths, though I find a disheartening increase in willingness of individual Mormons to engage in the same kinds of stereotyping and scapegoating---and even threats of coercive action---as the "religious right wing" has launched this year against the political left and American cultural and religious styles they don't like. It is a fearful irony that in so doing Mormons take common cause with the very people who have most slanderously attacked Mormons---people who would, if they had power, forcefully restrict Mormons' rights along with those of others they believe to be evil." The above "sermon" was addressed to the LDS audience who usually subscribe to This People's magazine, but would certainly apply to all of us who rely on the mercies and grace of Jesus Christ to bring us back into His arms. Even though the LDS Church claims devine authority to exercise the principles of the restored gospel---as in the days of Christ, the Church does not claim perfection and infallibility in how those with authoritative status have or do now lead the Church. I, for one, do not wish to be labelled "Christian", if those who profess themselves as Christians attack my beliefs because they are intollerent (for example) of the way my religion may interpret Biblical scriptures of the same source to have a different meaning and implication than mainstream Christianity would give it. Once again, being in the majority does NOT in and of itself PROVE anything except that your collective voice is louder. That's really all the critics of the LDS Church have to stand on in terms of the kind of Biblical interpretation used as proof to counter the LDS Church' interpretation! Using someone elses biased research of truths and non-truths (whose to say what the mixture is?) as an authoritative tool to disprove or discredit is not being fair to anyone, least of all themselves. Let us simply agree to disagree, and share beliefs through adult discussion and conversation, thereby uplifting everyone.
Archive-name: space/acronyms Edition: 8 Acronym List for sci.astro, sci.space, and sci.space.shuttle: Edition 8, 1992 Dec 7 Last posted: 1992 Aug 27 This list is offered as a reference for translating commonly appearing acronyms in the space-related newsgroups. If I forgot or botched your favorite acronym, please let me know! Also, if there's an acronym *not* on this list that confuses you, drop me a line, and if I can figure it out, I'll add it to the list. Note that this is intended to be a reference for *frequently seen* acronyms, and is most emphatically *not* encyclopedic. If I incorporated every acronym I ever saw, I'd soon run out of disk space! :-) The list will be posted at regular intervals, every 30 days. All comments regarding it are welcome; I'm reachable as bradfrd2@ncar.ucar.edu. Note that this just tells what the acronyms stand for -- you're on your own for figuring out what they *mean*! Note also that the total number of acronyms in use far exceeds what I can list; special-purpose acronyms that are essentially always explained as they're introduced are omitted. Further, some acronyms stand for more than one thing; as of Edition 3 of the list, these acronyms appear on multiple lines, unless they're simply different ways of referring to the same thing. Thanks to everybody who's sent suggestions since the first version of the list, and especially to Garrett A. Wollman (wollman@griffin.uvm.edu), who is maintaining an independent list, somewhat more verbose in character than mine, and to Daniel Fischer (dfi@specklec.mpifr-bonn.mpg.de), who is maintaining a truly HUGE list (535 at last count) of acronyms and terms, mostly in German (which I read, fortunately). Special thanks this time to Ken Hollis at NASA, who sent me a copy of NASA Reference Publication 1059 Revised: _Space Transportation System and Associated Payloads: Glossary, Acronyms, and Abbreviations_, a truly mammoth tome -- almost 300 pages of TLAs. Special Bonus! At the end of this posting, you will find a perl program written by none other than Larry Wall, whose purpose is to scramble the acronym list in an entertaining fashion. Thanks, Larry! A&A: Astronomy and Astrophysics AAO: Anglo-Australian Observatory AAS: American Astronomical Society AAS: American Astronautical Society AAVSO: American Association of Variable Star Observers ACE: Advanced Composition Explorer ACRV: Assured Crew Return Vehicle (or) Astronaut Crew Rescue Vehicle ADFRF: Ames-Dryden Flight Research Facility (was DFRF) (NASA) AGN: Active Galactic Nucleus AGU: American Geophysical Union AIAA: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics AIPS: Astronomical Image Processing System AJ: Astronomical Journal ALEXIS: Array of Low Energy X-ray Imaging Sensors ALPO: Association of Lunar and Planetary Observers ALS: Advanced Launch System ANSI: American National Standards Institute AOA: Abort Once Around (Shuttle abort plan) AOCS: Attitude and Orbit Control System Ap.J: Astrophysical Journal APM: Attached Pressurized Module (a.k.a. Columbus) APU: Auxiliary Power Unit ARC: Ames Research Center (NASA) ARTEMIS: Advanced Relay TEchnology MISsion ASA: Astronomical Society of the Atlantic ASI: Agenzia Spaziale Italiano ASRM: Advanced Solid Rocket Motor ATDRS: Advanced Tracking and Data Relay Satellite ATLAS: Atmospheric Laboratory for Applications and Science ATM: Amateur Telescope Maker ATO: Abort To Orbit (Shuttle abort plan) AU: Astronomical Unit AURA: Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy AW&ST: Aviation Week and Space Technology (a.k.a. AvLeak) AXAF: Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility BATSE: Burst And Transient Source Experiment (on CGRO) BBXRT: Broad-Band X-Ray Telescope (ASTRO package) BEM: Bug-Eyed Monster BH: Black Hole BIMA: Berkeley Illinois Maryland Array BNSC: British National Space Centre BTW: By The Way C&T: Communications & Tracking CCAFS: Cape Canaveral Air Force Station CCD: Charge-Coupled Device CCDS: Centers for the Commercial Development of Space CD-ROM: Compact Disk Read-Only Memory CFA: Center For Astrophysics CFC: ChloroFluoroCarbon CFF: Columbus Free Flyer CFHT: Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope CGRO: (Arthur Holley) Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (was GRO) CHARA: Center for High Angular Resolution Astronomy CIRRIS: Cryogenic InfraRed Radiance Instrument for Shuttle CIT: Circumstellar Imaging Telescope CM: Command Module (Apollo spacecraft) CMCC: Central Mission Control Centre (ESA) CNES: Centre National d'Etude Spatiales CNO: Carbon-Nitrogen-Oxygen CNSR: Comet Nucleus Sample Return COBE: COsmic Background Explorer COMPTEL: COMPton TELescope (on CGRO) COSTAR: Corrective Optics Space Telescope Axial Replacement CRAF: Comet Rendezvous / Asteroid Flyby CRRES: Combined Release / Radiation Effects Satellite CSM: Command and Service Module (Apollo spacecraft) CSTC: Consolidated Satellite Test Center (USAF) CTIO: Cerro Tololo Interamerican Observatory DCX: Delta Clipper eXperimental DDCU: DC-to-DC Converter Unit DFRF: Dryden Flight Research Facility (now ADFRF) DMSP: Defense Meteorological Satellite Program DOD: Department Of Defense (sometimes DoD) DOE: Department Of Energy DOT: Department Of Transportation DSCS: Defense Satellite Communications System DSN: Deep Space Network DSP: Defense Support Program (USAF/NRO) EAFB: Edwards Air Force Base ECS: Environmental Control System EDO: Extended Duration Orbiter EGRET: Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment Telescope (on CGRO) EJASA: Electronic Journal of the Astronomical Society of the Atlantic ELV: Expendable Launch Vehicle EMU: Extravehicular Mobility Unit EOS: Earth Observing System ERS: Earth Resources Satellite (as in ERS-1) ESA: European Space Agency ESO: European Southern Observatory ET: (Shuttle) External Tank ETLA: Extended Three Letter Acronym ETR: Eastern Test Range EUV: Extreme UltraViolet EUVE: Extreme UltraViolet Explorer EVA: ExtraVehicular Activity FAQ: Frequently Asked Questions FAST: Fast Auroral SnapshoT explorer FFT: Fast Fourier Transform FGS: Fine Guidance Sensors (on HST) FHST: Fixed Head Star Trackers (on HST) FIR: Far InfraRed FITS: Flexible Image Transport System FOC: Faint Object Camera (on HST) FOS: Faint Object Spectrograph (on HST) FRR: Flight-Readiness Review FTP: File Transfer Protocol FTS: Flight Telerobotic Servicer FUSE: Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer FWHM: Full Width at Half Maximum FYI: For Your Information GAS: Get-Away Special GBT: Green Bank Telescope GCVS: General Catalog of Variable Stars GEM: Giotto Extended Mission GEO: Geosynchronous Earth Orbit GDS: Great Dark Spot GHRS: Goddard High Resolution Spectrograph (on HST) GIF: Graphics Interchange Format GLOMR: Global Low-Orbiting Message Relay GMC: Giant Molecular Cloud GMRT: Giant Meter-wave Radio Telescope GMT: Greenwich Mean Time (also called UT) GOES: Geostationary Orbiting Environmental Satellite GOX: Gaseous OXygen GPC: General Purpose Computer GPS: Global Positioning System GRO: Gamma Ray Observatory (now CGRO) GRS: Gamma Ray Spectrometer (on Mars Observer) GRS: Great Red Spot GSC: Guide Star Catalog (for HST) GSFC: Goddard Space Flight Center (NASA) GTO: Geostationary Transfer Orbit HAO: High Altitude Observatory HD: Henry Draper catalog entry HEAO: High Energy Astronomical Observatory HeRA: Hermes Robotic Arm HF: High Frequency HGA: High Gain Antenna HLC: Heavy Lift Capability HLV: Heavy Lift Vehicle HMC: Halley Multicolor Camera (on Giotto) HR: Hertzsprung-Russell (diagram) HRI: High Resolution Imager (on ROSAT) HSP: High Speed Photometer (on HST) HST: Hubble Space Telescope HUT: Hopkins Ultraviolet Telescope (ASTRO package) HV: High Voltage IAPPP: International Amateur/Professional Photoelectric Photometry IAU: International Astronomical Union IAUC: IAU Circular ICE: International Cometary Explorer IDA: International Dark-sky Association IDL: Interactive Data Language IGM: InterGalactic Medium IGY: International Geophysical Year IMHO: In My Humble Opinion IOTA: Infrared-Optical Telescope Array IOTA: International Occultation Timing Association IPS: Inertial Pointing System IR: InfraRed IRAF: Image Reduction and Analysis Facility IRAS: InfraRed Astronomical Satellite ISAS: Institute of Space and Astronautical Science (Japan) ISM: InterStellar Medium ISO: Infrared Space Observatory ISO: International Standards Organization ISPM: International Solar Polar Mission (now Ulysses) ISY: International Space Year IUE: International Ultraviolet Explorer IUS: Inertial Upper Stage JEM: Japanese Experiment Module (for SSF) JGR: Journal of Geophysical Research JILA: Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics JPL: Jet Propulsion Laboratory JSC: Johnson Space Center (NASA) KAO: Kuiper Airborne Observatory KPNO: Kitt Peak National Observatory KSC: Kennedy Space Center (NASA) KTB: Cretaceous-Tertiary Boundary (from German) LANL: Los Alamos National Laboratory LaRC: Langley Research Center (NASA) LDEF: Long Duration Exposure Facility LEM: Lunar Excursion Module (a.k.a. LM) (Apollo spacecraft) LEO: Low Earth Orbit LeRC: Lewis Research Center (NASA) LEST: Large Earth-based Solar Telescope LFSA: List of Frequently Seen Acronyms (!) LGA: Low Gain Antenna LGM: Little Green Men LH: Liquid Hydrogen (also LH2 or LHX) LLNL: Lawrence-Livermore National Laboratory LM: Lunar Module (a.k.a. LEM) (Apollo spacecraft) LMC: Large Magellanic Cloud LN2: Liquid N2 (Nitrogen) LOX: Liquid OXygen LRB: Liquid Rocket Booster LSR: Local Standard of Rest LTP: Lunar Transient Phenomenon MB: Manned Base MCC: Mission Control Center MECO: Main Engine CutOff MMH: MonoMethyl Hydrazine MMT: Multiple Mirror Telescope MMU: Manned Maneuvering Unit MNRAS: Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society MOC: Mars Observer Camera (on Mars Observer) MOL: Manned Orbiting Laboratory MOLA: Mars Observer Laser Altimeter (on Mars Observer) MOMV: Manned Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle MOTV: Manned Orbital Transfer Vehicle MPC: Minor Planets Circular MRSR: Mars Rover and Sample Return MRSRM: Mars Rover and Sample Return Mission MSFC: (George C.) Marshall Space Flight Center (NASA) MTC: Man Tended Capability NACA: National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics (became NASA) NASA: National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASDA: NAtional Space Development Agency (Japan) NASM: National Air and Space Museum NASP: National AeroSpace Plane NBS: National Bureau of Standards (now NIST) NDV: NASP Derived Vehicle NERVA: Nuclear Engine for Rocket Vehicle Application NGC: New General Catalog NICMOS: Near Infrared Camera / Multi Object Spectrometer (HST upgrade) NIMS: Near-Infrared Mapping Spectrometer (on Galileo) NIR: Near InfraRed NIST: National Institute for Standards and Technology (was NBS) NLDP: National Launch Development Program NOAA: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAO: National Optical Astronomy Observatories NRAO: National Radio Astronomy Observatory NRO: National Reconnaissance Office NS: Neutron Star NSA: National Security Agency NSF: National Science Foundation NSO: National Solar Observatory NSSDC: National Space Science Data Center NTR: Nuclear Thermal Rocket(ry) NTT: New Technology Telescope OAO: Orbiting Astronomical Observatory OCST: Office of Commercial Space Transportation OMB: Office of Management and Budget OMS: Orbital Maneuvering System OPF: Orbiter Processing Facility ORFEUS: Orbiting and Retrievable Far and Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrometer OSC: Orbital Sciences Corporation OSCAR: Orbiting Satellite Carrying Amateur Radio OSSA: Office of Space Science and Applications OSSE: Oriented Scintillation Spectrometer Experiment (on CGRO) OTA: Optical Telescope Assembly (on HST) OTHB: Over The Horizon Backscatter OTV: Orbital Transfer Vehicle OV: Orbital Vehicle PAM: Payload Assist Module PAM-D: Payload Assist Module, Delta-class PI: Principal Investigator PLSS: Portable Life Support System PM: Pressurized Module PMC: Permanently Manned Capability PMIRR: Pressure Modulated InfraRed Radiometer (on Mars Observer) PMT: PhotoMultiplier Tube PSF: Point Spread Function PSR: PulSaR PV: Photovoltaic PVO: Pioneer Venus Orbiter QSO: Quasi-Stellar Object RCI: Rodent Cage Interface (for SLS mission) RCS: Reaction Control System REM: Rat Enclosure Module (for SLS mission) RF: Radio Frequency RFI: Radio Frequency Interference RIACS: Research Institute for Advanced Computer Science RMS: Remote Manipulator System RNGC: Revised New General Catalog ROSAT: ROentgen SATellite ROUS: Rodents Of Unusual Size (I don't believe they exist) RSN: Real Soon Now RTG: Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator RTLS: Return To Launch Site (Shuttle abort plan) SAA: South Atlantic Anomaly SAGA: Solar Array Gain Augmentation (for HST) SAMPEX: Solar Anomalous and Magnetospheric Particle EXplorer SAO: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory SAR: Search And Rescue SAR: Synthetic Aperture Radar SARA: Satellite pour Astronomie Radio Amateur SAREX: Search and Rescue Exercise SAREX: Shuttle Amateur Radio Experiment SAS: Space Activity Suit SAS: Space Adaptation Syndrome SAT: Synthetic Aperture Telescope S/C: SpaceCraft SCA: Shuttle Carrier Aircraft SCT: Schmidt-Cassegrain Telescope SDI: Strategic Defense Initiative SDIO: Strategic Defense Initiative Organization SEI: Space Exploration Initiative SEST: Swedish ESO Submillimeter Telescope SETI: Search for ExtraTerrestrial Intelligence SID: Sudden Ionospheric Disturbance SIR: Shuttle Imaging Radar SIRTF: Space (formerly Shuttle) InfraRed Telescope Facility SL: SpaceLab SLAR: Side-Looking Airborne Radar SLC: Space Launch Complex SLS: Space(lab) Life Sciences SMC: Small Magellanic Cloud SME: Solar Mesosphere Explorer SMEX: SMall EXplorers SMM: Solar Maximum Mission SN: SuperNova (e.g., SN1987A) SNR: Signal to Noise Ratio SNR: SuperNova Remnant SNU: Solar Neutrino Units SOFIA: Stratospheric Observatory For Infrared Astronomy SOHO: SOlar Heliospheric Observatory SPAN: Space Physics and Analysis Network SPDM: Special Purpose Dextrous Manipulator SPOT: Systeme Probatoire pour l'Observation de la Terre SPS: Solar Power Satellite SRB: Solid Rocket Booster SRM: Solid Rocket Motor SSF: Space Station Fred (er, Freedom) SSI: Solid-State Imager (on Galileo) SSI: Space Studies Institut SSME: Space Shuttle Main Engine SSPF: Space Station Processing Facility SSRMS: Space Station Remote Manipulator System SST: Spectroscopic Survey Telescope SST: SuperSonic Transport SSTO: Single Stage To Orbit STIS: Space Telescope Imaging Spectrometer (to replace FOC and GHRS) STS: Shuttle Transport System (or) Space Transportation System STScI: Space Telescope Science Institute SWAS: Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite SWF: ShortWave Fading TAL: Transatlantic Abort Landing (Shuttle abort plan) TAU: Thousand Astronomical Unit (mission) TCS: Thermal Control System TDRS: Tracking and Data Relay Satellite TDRSS: Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System TES: Thermal Emission Spectrometer (on Mars Observer) TIROS: Television InfraRed Observation Satellite TLA: Three Letter Acronym TOMS: Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TPS: Thermal Protection System TSS: Tethered Satellite System UARS: Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite UBM: Unpressurized Berthing Mechanism UDMH: Unsymmetrical DiMethyl Hydrazine UFO: Unidentified Flying Object UGC: Uppsala General Catalog UHF: Ultra High Frequency UIT: Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (Astro package) UKST: United Kingdom Schmidt Telescope USAF: United States Air Force USMP: United States Microgravity Payload UT: Universal Time (a.k.a. GMT, UTC, or Zulu Time) UTC: Coordinated Universal Time (a.k.a. UT) UV: UltraViolet UVS: UltraViolet Spectrometer VAB: Vehicle Assembly Building (formerly Vertical Assembly Building) VAFB: Vandenberg Air Force Base VEEGA: Venus-Earth-Earth Gravity Assist (Galileo flight path) VHF: Very High Frequency VLA: Very Large Array VLBA: Very Long Baseline Array VLBI: Very Long Baseline Interferometry VLF: Very Low Frequency VLT: Very Large Telescope VMS: Vertical Motion Simulator VOIR: Venus Orbiting Imaging Radar (superseded by VRM) VPF: Vertical Processing Facility VRM: Venus Radar Mapper (now called Magellan) WD: White Dwarf WFPC: Wide Field / Planetary Camera (on HST) WFPCII: Replacement for WFPC WIYN: Wisconsin / Indiana / Yale / NOAO telescope WSMR: White Sands Missile Range WTR: Western Test Range WUPPE: Wisconsin Ultraviolet PhotoPolarimter Experiment (Astro package) XMM: X-ray Multi Mirror XUV: eXtreme UltraViolet YSO: Young Stellar Object #!/usr/bin/perl # 'alt', An Acronym Scrambling Program, by Larry Wall $THRESHOLD = 2; srand; while (<>) { next unless /^([A-Z]\S+): */; $key = $1; $acro{$key} = $'; @words = split(/\W+/,$'); unshift(@words,$key); $off = 0; foreach $word (@words) { next unless $word =~ /^[A-Z]/; *w = $&; vec($w{$word}, $off++ % 6, 1) = 1; } } foreach $letter (A .. Z) { *w = $letter; @w = keys %w; if (@w < $THRESHOLD) { @d = `egrep '^$letter' /usr/dict/words`; chop @d; push(@w, @d); } } foreach $key (sort keys %acro) { $off = 0; $acro = $acro{$key}; $acro =~ s/((([A-Z])[A-Z]*)[a-z]*)/ &pick($3, $2, $1, ++$off) || $& /eg; print "$key: $acro"; } sub pick { local($letter, $prefix, $oldword, $off) = @_; $i = 0; if (length($prefix) > 1 && index($key,$prefix) < 0) { if ($prefix eq $oldword) { $prefix = ''; } else { $prefix = $letter; } } if (length($prefix) > 1) { local(*w) = substr($prefix,0,1); do { $word = $w[rand @w]; } until $word ne $oldword && $word =~ /^$prefix/i || ++$i > 30; $word =~ s/^$prefix/$prefix/i; $word; } elsif (length($prefix) == 1) { local(*w) = $prefix; do { $word = $w[rand @w]; } until $word ne $oldword && vec($w{$word}, $off, 1) || ++$i > 10; $word = "\u\L$word" if $word =~ tr/a-z/A-Z/; $word; } else { local(*w) = substr($oldword,0,1); do { $word = $w[rand @w]; } until $word ne $oldword && $word =~ tr/a-z/A-Z/ == 0 || ++$i > 30; $word; } }
We might get further if we begin by accepting that the government really couldn't be bothered less about the political opinions of the right wing pro establishment types. Just about the only circumstances in which I could think that they would be interested in their political views would be to recruit them as spooks. They can be guaranteed to give the government line when it counts. In US history it has been the socialists such as myself who have been persecuted. Now before people start asserting that there is no mechanism by which the administration can get their new chip adopted without legal force lets try thinking. In the first place the clipper chip must have existed for several years as a defense project. Therefore this is not a party matter at all. George Bush was in any case hardly adverse to tapping calls, he was chief spook remember. Secondly the govt can quite easily apply pressure. They simply "ask" their chums who they give huge defense contracts to (motorola etc) to be "nice" boys. After all Bill is giving them a nice little trade monopoly since the chips won't be avaliable to foreign firms. Thirdly the people who consider the Democrats to be socialist are not the same as the ones who consider socialists to be communist. People might know this if the US education system did not suffer from the Mcarthyite and Dewy version of political correctness - the sort with tribunals and show trials. Ever seen Ed Meese pissed? I have, it was when he said that socialism and communism were the same thing and brought the house down with laughter. It took several minutes before we realised that he was serious. Phill Hallam-Baker
You're drifting off topic. In any case, if you check on any of the topics devoted to gun rights issues, you will find ample evidence that the "misinformation" is your assertion that the term "the people" in the Second Amendment has mysteriously taken on a meaning diametrically opposite the meaning of the exact same term in the First and Fourth Amendments.
#That describes some straights -- and nearly all homosexual males. Can you provide any evidence that doesn't ahve massive selection effects? No, I thought not. Just slander on your part.
I recently published a new privacy-protecting off-line electronic cash system as a technical report at CWI. Being a PhD-student at David Chaum's cryptography-group, our group has a long history in research in the field of privacy-protecting cash systems. The report is called CS-R9323.ps.Z, contains 77 pages, and can be retrieved from ftp.cwi.nl (192.16.184.180) from the directory pub/CWIreports/AA. The postscript-file is suitable for 300dpi laserprinters. ==================================================================== ABSTRACT (from coverpage): We present a new off-line electronic cash system based on a problem, called the representation problem, of which little use has been made in literature thus far. Our system is the first to be based entirely on discrete logarithms. Using the representation problem as a basic concept, some techniques are introduced that enable us to construct protocols for withdrawal and payment that do not use the cut and choose methodology of earlier systems. As a consequence, our cash system is much more efficient in both computation and communication complexity than any such system proposed previously. Another important aspect of our system concerns its provability. Contrary to previously proposed systems, its correctness can be mathematically proven to a very great extent. Specifically, if we make one plausible assumption concerning a single hash-function, the ability to break the system seems to imply that one can break the Diffie-Hellman problem. Our system offers a number of extensions that are hard to achieve in previously known systems. In our opinion the most interesting of these is that the entire cash system (including all the extensions) can be incorporated in a setting based on wallets with observers, which has the important advantage that double-spending can be prevented in the first place, rather than detecting the identity of a double-spender after the fact. In particular, it can be incorporated even under the most stringent requirements conceivable about the privacy of the user, which seems to be impossible to do with previously proposed systems. Another benefit of our system is that framing attempts by a bank have negligible probability of success (independent of computing power) by a simple mechanism from within the system, which is something that previous solutions lack entirely. Furthermore, the basic cash system can be extended to checks, multi-show cash and divisibility, while retaining its computational efficiency. ==================================================================== Cryptographers are challenged to try to break this system! I made a particular effort to keep the report as self-contained as possible. Nevertheless, if you have any questions, please e-mail to me and I will try to reply as good as I can. Any comments are also welcome! Stefan Brands,
I have a Conner-disk model CP30061G (200Mb ??) with no info at all. The only thing I know is that is normally used with Compaq-machines. Please, send me information on switch-settings, geometry and so on. It looks like a normal IDE-disk but is it possible to use it with a standard IDE-controller?? -- Michael
... It's amazing how everyone automatically blames one side or the other. One thing for sure: Koresh will have no chance to defend himself against the statements (lacking in fact or COurt sponsored verification) made by agents who participated in the situation that killed him. I don't know they murdered him; I also don't know that the Branch Davidians set a fire and suicidede. It is SICK of BATF or FBI spokepeople to make such comments in advance of forensic pathology. Stephen: thank you. God speed. Yah. BINGO. Am I the only one to notice: a) No peaceful attempt to serve a warrant. b) Six months to develop a scene and six days to end it? c) .... ah God: 25 children at least 64 adults plus 6 at the beginning and more BATF agents all dead. Has anyone asked themselves these questions: 1) Have you seen the ENTIRE video sequences taken during the opening rounds? I seem to recall missing several key parts: a) The first five minutes of day one; only the shooting part comes out. b) What happened to the Feds video units? You mean they do not carry helmet cams? Wonder why not? 2) How is it you can have camera crews with live transmission video present and NOT have an uninterrupted record? a) You realize the units carry ittle bitty 8mm backups? That hold 90 minutes per unit? And there are twounits on the professional handhelds (so no tape turnover gaps)? b) Until all views are seen, it is premature to point fingers in either direction. As you well point out, Stephen. More on this below. Yes. But it is so hard toremain human under the full pressure of hazard, game playing, and life. More to the point: when someone dies (almost like it was intended that way), both sides will kill to maintain their innocence -- a contradiction in terms. True. Usually I pick the unpopular side and point out from the evidence seen what might have alternatively happened. This requires someone interested in God's Will. Please note that the outstanding _overt_ problem in this country today is one where the Government: wants Caesar's coin to pay off the debt. Yes: The AMerican People. Not the Federal Government. ANd if it is not spent towards that end, _no_one_ deserves the coin. Yah. Fewpeople hear the contradiction: Money made in the image of God I wish you were wrong. Many pundits are saying 3 years. The onyl good thing to come out of my divorce (and my exposure to the Damned (pardon me) American Divorce Attorney is: I have no money left to lose to taxes or inflation. 25 children dead. If anyone thinks blaming Koresh -- or the BATF helps this any at all, is sick. and wrong. The reason you can tell that the BATF may not be entirely straight on this is that the leaders at press conferences havew made ANY comments about even the POSSIBILITY that Koresh or his followers caused this. The BATF agentss are more concerned with their repuations and morals ("not my fault, Koresh did it!") than they are with: 25 dead children. Same goes for Koresh & his followers - who are all (mostly) dead. More on power and favoritism. (My personal opinion). Look to history: whenever privilege has replaced whatever token of objective law and justice a society has had, Hitlerrs have followed. You do your name sake proud, Stephen. Its hard, but please keep on keeping on: each voice in the wilderness now will save a generation unborn from horror The day I _need_ a gun or abomb to protect myself in this society is the day that society is already beyond redemption and that aint' redundant, if you have any Christian belief aytall. ... and the day that I cannot peacefully enjoin others in the act that Thoreau called Civil Disobedience to rectify the wrongs that my society practises, without undue harm or punishment befalling me, is the day that society has ceased to be a human society, and become a society of animals. We are _very_ cclose to that. Six years fighting an unjust COurt issue: still struggling to be patient. For those who like contrary questions: NB: I was not there. I am not a Branch Davidian nor a law official hater. I do hate liars or the six letter variety of same. The official side has its advocates already; lets balance the equation and asj a few questions on the other side, for the sake of an old saw the BATF abd FBI seem to want to bypass: innocent until proven guilty. not innocent until presumed guilty. 1) Where are the video tapes from the tanks? ALL of them. Don't tell me they do not exist. They are standard equipment. 2) So you think Koresh fired the place, because of the explosion? a) Tear gas comes with an aerosol to spread it. This aerosol is DELIBERATELY made to be as non-flammable as possible. It is as non-flammable as possible. .... gotcha! ... when in isolation from other substances. WHy was a pipe deliveryu system used rather than remote launchers? WHy did the FBI not announce "this window, blown in plus tear gas, five minutes; then the wall come down", and maintain a left to right sequence? b) Most aerosols also have a secondary compound, that when mixed in, becomes a VERY flammable (and difficult to trace) suspension, with a VERY special property: exposure to brief eruptions of high heat (muzzle blasts) or long exposure to low heat (matches, a stove) will NOT tend to ignite. What other chemicals come up in the forensics? Who else will be allowed to test the site? c) After a few minutes to hours (ifdesired, the combnation rate can be controlled as desired), the mixture can be made to become veryignitable onb exposure to a temperature above a certain point (a tracer round) for a certain heat quantity (a small explosive charge) or for a length of time (start a wall fire and wait). Check your military records; look at the tapes. Why were tanks (large capacity delivey systems), tear gas (why not somnorifics?), and now (why the hurry. was there still a comm channel open to the outside?). Do you see any trace of fire coming BACK to the compound in the videos? ALL the videos? Which ones are missing? Do I sound paranoid? Maybe. Am I? Probably not. You trust the FBI and BATF to render judgement? IN advance of a Court? God help us. (For we are surely not helping ourselves). You trut the Federal Gevernment to give us a clean slate? You are 4.3 trillion (admitted!) down and counting. Look again. Did it happen that way? I do not know. I was not there. AND IT SHOULD WAIT FOR A COURT TO DECIDE. But will that happen? 89 people will NOT have the chance to tell their side as the BATF leader was, on camera. No one wins. Except: more force next time. Listen to your hearts, people. Thanx again Stephen. roy andrew crabtree
Dear Ulf, Would you possibly consider helpiMontreal Canadiens fans everywhere by throwing a knee-check in the direction of Denis Savard during your upcoming game against Montreal? We just can't seem to win WITH him! Thanx alot, Pete H. :-)
Hey! Glad to have some serious and constructive contributors in this newsgroup. I agree 100% on the statement above, you might argue with Bobby for eons, and he still does not get it, so the best thing is to spare your mental resources to discuss more interesting issues. Cheers, Kent
Sigh. This was written about the game NHLPA Hockey '93. Which does not have precise up-to-date rosters. Why don't people think before they post? Jeez...
There are a few bills not yet in the archive, but these are the main ones we need to fight. And thanks to David Robinson for scanning so many of them in for us! The subdirectory bills are stored in was moved from "congress" to "Congress", that is: godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu:/usr0/anon/pub/firearms/politics/rkba/Congress
Can anyone tell me where I might find stereo images of planetary and planetary satellite surfaces? GIFs preferred, but any will do. I'm especially interested in stereos of the surfaces of Phobos, Deimos, Mars and the Moon (in that order). Thanks.
I guess that's why scientists probably aren't mentioned either. Or stock brokers. Or television repairmen. It's precious to know just how deep the brainwashing from childhood ( that it takes to progress a religion ) cleans away a very substantial part of the reasoning neurons. But don't mind me; I don't exist.
"So after 1000 years of sightseeing and roaming around its ok to come back, kill Palastinians, and get their land back, right?" Yes, that's casual antisemitism. I can think of plenty of ways to criticize Israeli policy without insulting Jews or Jewish history. Can't you?
Speech by Pete Worden Delivered Before the U.S. Space Foundation Conference Colorado Springs, Colorado April 15, 1993 What a delightful opportunity to cause some trouble. For providing me this forum I would sincerely like to thank the U.S. Space Foundation. My topic today is the Single Stage Rocket Technology rocket or SSRT. By I intend to speak of more. How to lower the cost and make rapid progress. SSRT is to my mind -- and I hope to convince you -- the erupting a new rallying cry for our generation in space -- Faster, Cheaper, and Better. Faster, Cheaper, Better and SSRT represent the passing of a torch from one technical generation to another. It is a new thing to be sure -- but it is also a relearning of old things from past masters. When we rolled out the SSRT baby two weeks ago, so called experts told us it violates the laws of physics -- it made no sense. For example, Dr. Eberhart Rachtin - former president of the Aerospace Corp., said of SSRT in the L.A. Times that it, "defies the best principles of launching payloads into space." Well Dr. Rachtin -- you've made us mad! What are these principles that SSRT defies? Well I'll tell you. It violates the principle that you need a giant program office to build space hardware. It violates the "fact" that it takes 20 years to build something new. And it violates the truism that you cant do anything significant for less than many billions of dollars. It took some of the last generation's experts to teach us some new/old lessons. Werhner Von Braun's first rocket was not a Saturn V. General Schriever's ICBM's didn't take ten years to demonstrate. And the X-1 airplane didn't cost $1 billion. It took one of the great engineers of the 1950's to remind us of these truths -- Max Hunter. Max, to remind you, was a senior engineer in the Thor IRBM program, and old faster, better, cheaper success story. Max has been persistent in a vision of a single stage reusable space launch system since the 1960's. Because he knew it had to be done in affordable steps - Build a little, Test a little. Next he persuaded us to do a technology demonstration. We didn't solicit a bunch of requirements -- they'd just change every few years anyway. [ not included in the speech -- The ALS/NLS has such ephemeral requirements that it would better known as "Shape Shifter" than "Space Lifter." We didn't spend a lot money -- this X-Rocket only cost $60 million. When's the last time we even built a new airplane for that? And it didn't take a lot of time to build -- McDonnell Douglas completed it in 18 months. Finally, the government program office consisted of one very over-worked Air Force Major -- motivated in part by the threat that he'd get to ride on it in a strapped-on lawn chair if it ran over cost or schedule. As I described what SSRT is -- and isn't keep in mind its only a first step. There are several more steps -- and steps that can easily fail -- before the U.S. can field an SSTO. But each step should follow the same principles -- a small management team -- a few years technology demonstration -- and a modest budget. Let me show a few details on SSRT and how it might evolve: (See charts) I'm embarrassed when my generation is compared with the last generation -- the giants of the last great space era, the 1950's and 1960's. They went to the moon - we built a telescope that can't see straight. They soft-landed on Mars - the least we could do is soft-land on Earth! But we do have an answer. We can follow their build a little, test a little philosophy to produce a truly affordable and routine access to space. I know there are nay sayers among you -- those who say SSRT is a stunt. It needs more thermal protection, the engines are wrong, it would be better to land horizontally, etc, etc. I say to you -- we'll see you at White Sands in June. You bring your view-graphs, and I'll bring my rocketship. If we do what we say we can do, then you let us do the next step. [ not included in the speech: If we fail -- you still have your program offices, staff summary sheets, requirement analyses, and decade long programs.]
: A very simple question : it seems to me that the contraceptive : pill just prevents the ovule to nest in the vagina and forces it to : fall every month. But it does not prevent the fertilzation of the : ovule. Is it true ? If yes, is there a risk of extra-uterine : pregnancy, that is the development of the ovule inside the Fallopian : tube ? Actually that is not how the pill works, but it *is* how the IUD works. The oral contraceptive pill actually *prevents* ovulation from occuring by providing negatve feedback to the pituitary gland, and thus preventing the LH surge that normally occurs at the time of ovulation. With the IUD what happens is that fertilization may occur, but the device prevents implantation within the wall of the uterus (*not* the vagina).
An review of both the Mac and Windows versions in either PC Week or Info World this week, said that the Windows version was considerably slower than the Mac. A more useful comparison would have been between PhotoStyler and PhotoShop for Windows. David
Well, it's said that people get the government they deserve. Don't worry, you'll get yours. You'll sleep much better when everyone with thoughts not on the government 'approved' list is rounded up and executed.
Let's see, if Alexander destroyed Tyre, and people move back, and they construct houses, and after a while 14000 people live there and still call it Tyre, it is not considered to be rebuilt. Instead it's considered to be 'just-some-people-that-got-together-for-fishing- and-they-needed-houses' place. Sigh, I was never born in a city then (my home town has 10.000 people). I have to consult my city and inform them that it's from now a fishing village. When this city (Kristinestad) was founded in the 17:th century about 1000 people lived there, so the norms were even more bizarre for dumb Swedish queens who founded cities along the coast of Finland. I would like to know why Paul thought is was worth mentioning the small fishing place of Tyre in Acts. Again, maybe he was a keen fisherman and wanted to visit the shores of Tyre? :-) Cheers, Kent
I don't understand what you are getting at here. If the chances of promiscuity are larger, yet the rate of promiscuity is lower in the heterosexual community, doesn't that imply that the homo/bi sexual population is then even more promiscuous than the raw statistics imply? (No axe to grind here I'm just a scientist and I hate to see statistics abused.) I am a hetero man and have had sex with one woman in my life (my wife). It is very pleasing to me to be able to say that. I hope you have the same feeling as I do. I also wish that you could (if you wanted) experience the joys and trials of being committed to someone for life (there is something about marriage that makes the commitment much greater than one might expect). Don't forget about the culture. Sadly, we don't (as a society) look upon homosexuality as normal (and as we are all too well aware, there are alot of people who condemn it). As a result, the gay population is not encouraged to develop "non-promiscuous" relationships. In fact there are many roadblocks put in the way of such committed relationships. It is as if the heterosexual community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays are immoral. "My, if we allowed gays to marry, raise children ... we might just find out they're as moral as we are, can't have that can we?" Just some thoughts. Flame away. :)
The economic and political ignorance of most Americans can be truly scary. Price controls and government intervention. The surest route to disaster. It's amazing, people never seem to learn from history (or common sense). Price controls do not, and cannot work. I would have thought our last experiment in the 70's would have been enough to dampen the belief that price controls can actually work. As for government intervention, people never seem to get the irony of what the are saying. We are told that entitlements are the biggest portion of the budget and they must be 'controlled'. We are presented with horror stories of waste and fraud in almost all government agencies. We are shown stories about the miserable treatment our veterans get in our government run hospitals. We are just now seeing stories about how Social Security isn't going to cut it in the future (as if that should come as any surprise). And yet, people choose to ignore all of that and believe in the fairy tale of the government coming to the rescue. Simply amazing.
In a word, yes. I don't believe that physical knowledge has a great deal of impact on the power of God. In the past, God gave us the ability to create life through sexual relations. Now, he is giving us the ability to create life through in vitro fertilization. The difference between the two is merely cosmetic, and even if we gain the ability to create universes we won't begin to approach the glory of God. The power we are being given is a test, and I am sure that in many cases we will use our new abilities unwisely. But, people have been using sexuality unwisely for millenia and I haven't heard an outcry to abolish it yet! No matter how far we extend our dominion over the physical world, we aren't impinging on God's power. It's only when we attempt to gain control of the spiritual world, those things that can't be approached through science and logic, that we begin to interfere with God.
At least we got somebody the Flyers wanted ;-) Is this really true? I have not been keeping up with any news. If it is, what's the deal with Neil Smith? Is he gone, too? -- Keith Keller LET'S GO RANGERS!!!!! LET'S GO QUAKERS!!!!! kkeller@mail.sas.upenn.edu IVY LEAGUE CHAMPS!!!!
only appreciated. Paul Coffey of Detroit RedWings
Hi. I am having some interesting problems with my Boca graphics card, which is based on the Cirrus Logic chipset (I am not sure exactly which one). The problem is as follows: If I use any Windows driver at 800x600 except for the 64K-colour driver (ie 16 colour or 256 colour), the image on screen becomes too tall - no amount of resizing on the monitor will make it fit. And if I use Excel with the 64K- colour driver, it hangs as soon as it loads. Anyone out there used this card/experienced anything similar. Please reply by mail, and I will post any solutions here. Regards - Simon --
code deleted... From the XmTextField man page (during discussion of resources): XmNverifyBell Specifies whether a bell will sound when an action is reversed during a verification callback. You are setting doit to false in the callback, and Text[Field] is beeping as it should. To turn off this behavior, set this boolean resource to false.
Our shop uses a package called CADCore - very good - to scan and subsequently vectorize original maps into digital maps. The problem is that once the raster file is loaded into the CADCore package, a header is added to the .HRF file which makes it unreadable by the supplied converter. We would like to be able to ship some of the already-altered raster images for further use on our workstations. So, here are my questions: (1) What is the Hitachi format? - I need this format so I can recognize precisely what to strip out. I strongly suspect that it's a compressed format - if so, then t might not be possible for me to strip out the offending header. (2) Are there any UNIX packages that read and recognize HRF? It would be really nice to find some sort of "hrftopbm" converter out there. ;)
-- MoOLIT (Motif/Open Look Intrinsic Toolkit allows developers to build applications that can switch between Motif and Open Look at run-time, while OLIT only gives you Open Look.
:It occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you, and the escrow :houses release your code to the cops, your code is now no longer secure. A very good point! :It's in the hands of cops, and while I am sure most of the time they are :good, their security will not be as good as the escrow houses. Why should we expect the cops to be honest! They're underpaid for the risks they face every day. The media dumps on the all the time and blames them for all sorts of discrimination, brutality.... How can we expect them to be more than human? Besides there are lots of cases of police abuses ranging from protection scams to outright robbery (when I worked in D.C. there was a breakin at a local Radio Shack and the alarm company heard the cops responding to the call over the audio pickup in the store:-). :What this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you, :at the end of the wiretap, they should be obligated to inform you that :a tap was performed, and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your :cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the :escrow houses. Then you would know that Big Brother had been listening. Does he really want to let you know? :Do the police normally reveal every tap they do even if no charges are :laid? In many ways, it would be a positive step if they had to. :Judges set time limits on warrants, I assume. At the end of the time :limit they should have to renew or replace your chip. :That's if we go with this scheme, which I am not sure I agree with. I'm completely against anything that makes it easier for the government to encroach on the rights of individuals. The founders of this country spent a lot of effort limiting the power of the government and specifying exactly what the governments rights were (and this didn't include a gov't spy in every bedroom). IMHO, there are entirely too many things going on today designed to preserve the government organism at the expense of individuals. Look around and reread 1984 and many early Heinlein books. Aren't there many parallels between the thought police (can you spell Waco Texas?), and Heinlein's ``Crazy Years''? Bill
If you only do read/print then there is no reason for the joystick stuff not to take 90% of the time even if it is efficient. The truth is that int 15H joystick reading IS slow. I read it directly from the hardware port. Note that doing so exposes you to intermittent disturbance from interrupts, so you may want to read (say) twice in a row and keep the lower results. Don't just turn interrupts off, it may prove detrimental to the health of any high speed comms and other devices. Here is an example of how to do this: /* ------------------------------ joy.c ------------------------------------- */ /* An example of how to read PC joystick port by polling the hardware port * directly. * Uses inp()/outp() for byte port access. * Will timeout when 'int count=0' counts up to zero. * This sample reads one port (A is presented and B is in the comments). * You can read both at once by merging the two, but it will time out * when either joystick is not connected. * * There is no need to optimize this routine since it runs for as long as * the joystick circuitry needs. * * Written by Eyal Lebedinsky (eyal@ise.canberra.edu.au). */ #include <stdio.h> #include <stdlib.h> #include <conio.h> extern int readjoy (int *x, int *y, int *b1, int *b2); #define JOYPORT 0x201 #define XJOY 0x01 /* for joystick B use 0x04 */ #define YJOY 0x02 /* for joystick B use 0x08 */ #define XYMASK (XJOY|YJOY) #define BUT1 0x10 /* for joystick B use 0x40 */ #define BUT2 0x20 /* for joystick B use 0x80 */ int /* returns 0 if ok */ readjoy (int *x, int *y, int *b1, int *b2) { register int count; register char temp, joy; temp = (char)XYMASK; count = 0; outp (JOYPORT, 0); /* set trigger */ do { temp ^= (joy = (char)inp (JOYPORT)); if (temp & XJOY) *x = count; if (temp & YJOY) *y = count; } while (++count && ((temp = joy) & XYMASK)); *b1 = !(joy & BUT1); *b2 = !(joy & BUT2); return (!count); } /* This main() is for demonstration. */ int main () { int rc, x, y, b1, b2;
Or, with no dictionary available, they could gain first hand knowledge by suffering through one of your posts. /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ Bob Beauchaine bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM They said that Queens could stay, they blew the Bronx away, and sank Manhattan out at sea.
Bill, I have taken the time to explain that biblical scholars consider the Josephus reference to be an early Christian insert. By biblical scholar I mean an expert who, in the course of his or her research, is willing to let the chips fall where they may. This excludes literalists, who may otherwise be defined as biblical apologists. They find what they want to find. They are not trustworthy by scholarly standards (and others). Why an insert? Read it - I have, a number of times. The passage is glaringly out of context, and Josephus, a superb writer, had no such problem elsewhere in his work. The passage has *nothing* to do with the subject matter in which it lies. It suddenly appears and then just as quickly disappears. Until you can demonstrate how and why the scholarly community is wrong about the Josephus insert, your "proof" is meaningless and it should not be repeated here. What's more, even if Josephus happened to be legitimate, it would "prove" nothing. Scholars speak of the "weight of evidence." Far more independent evidence would be required to validate your claim. Until forthcoming, your belief is based on faith. That's OK, but you exceed your rights when you pass faith off as fact. As for the gospels, there are parallels, but there are also glaring inconsistencies and contradictions. Shouldn't a perfect canon be perfect? Shouldn't there be absolutely no room for debate? I suggest you read _Gospel Fictions_ by Randel Helms, and _The Unauthorized Version_ by Robin Fox (for Herb Huston, no known kinship or familial relationship, but we do indeed share an evolutionary ancestry). The fact that there are inconsistencies, gaps and contradictions does not deny your position. On the other hand, neither do the gospels "prove" your faith. Independent evidence is necessary, and I know of none (which we have already discussed, and so far you have not provided any). Until then, its faith. Moreover, you have committed a fundamental error in logic. You have attempted to "prove" your claim with that which you want to prove. Its no different than saying "I am right because I say so." Your logic is full of circles. It reminds me a bit of the 1910 Presbyterian General Assembly. The assembly defined five fundamentals (this is where "fundamentalist" came from) of orthodox Protestant Christianity, to wit: 1) Jesus performed miracles, 2) Jesus was born of a virgin, 3) Jesus was bodily resurrected, 4) Jesus' crucifixion atoned for human sin, and - here is the clincher - 5) the bible is the inerrant word of God. Presbyterians construe "inerrant" broadly as spritually inerrant. Fundamentalists take the first four as literally true, and then validate them with a literally inerrant bible, which contains the first four, and which is the only thing known to contain the first four. Smoke and mirrors and wands and hand waving if ever there was! Its faith, Bill. You don't have any more or better truths than anyone else. Whatever works for you. Just don't foist it on others. Regards,
: At the company I worked for previously, I received a file that was des encryped : and the person that had sent it, went on vaction. Rather than wait two weeks : I set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. It only took two(2) : days to crack the file. No, I don't have any faith in DES. : A.G. Fun! Three questions: 1) What hardware did you use? 2) When you found the key, was there anything about it that was special that meant you had been lucky to find it early? (Like the first 30 bits all being 0) 3) ... or did you mean a dictionary attack rather than a binary key attack?
Paul Prescod pontificating: PP>> Libertarians oppose BOTH waiting periods AND background checks PP>>-- or ANY prerequisite for exercising rights that are supposed to PP>>be guaranteed. PP>Let me get this straight. Unlike the other idiots in this newsgroup, PP>you actually support anybody having unlimited access to guns, PP>inclucing criminals. (or would you prohibit them from owning them, PP>but not from buying them?) PP>You are a supreme idiot. You make the other idiots look like Mensa members. Thanks Paul, for yet another fine example of the holier than thou gun control mindset. Why don't you add something intelligent to the debate, like maybe nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah. --- . OLX 2.2 . Fight crime..... shoot back!
You might visit some congregations of Christians, who happen to be homosexuals, that are spirit-filled believers, not MCC'rs; before you go lumping us all together with Troy Perry. The Lord IS working in our community (the homosexual community, that is). He's not asking us to change our sexual nature, but He is calling us to practice the morality that He established from the beginning. Isn't Satan having a hayday pitting Christian against Christian over any issue he can, especially homosexuality. Let's reach the homosexuals for Christ. Let's not try to change them, just need to bring them to Christ. If He doesn't want them to be gay, He can change that. If they are living a moral life, committed to someone of the same sex, and God is moving in their lives, who are we to tell them they have to change? That's my two cent.
no argument on going direct to National (see my previous post on this topic), but some info regarding what you said above. I don't know about the 8250 or 16450, but NS was the original source for the 16550 series (and I strongly suspect that they developed the others first, too). I can also tell you that I'm one of those who won't buy a UART made by anyone other than National Semiconductor. --jim -- #include <std_disclaimer.h> 73 DE N5IAL (/4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ INTERNET: jim@n5ial.mythical.com | j.graham@ieee.org ICBM: 30.23N 86.32W AMATEUR RADIO: n5ial@w4zbb (Ft. Walton Beach, FL) AMTOR SELCAL: NIAL
Now, take a good look at at, an tell me man, there is no Christian Devil? There is, is real, is a virus, a meme, infecting and possessing the good people and keep 'em from becoming human beings with emphasis on the being! Is not a matter of good people an evil people, is all good people see, but some good people vexed of the Christian Devil. An it can't be burn out or lynch out or rape out. Only wise up let I rise up. Christian Devil is real man, how else can you explain five hundred years of history, even more? Can only be explained by Christians invoke Christian Devil. you keep on knocking but you can't come in, i got to understand you've been living in sin, but walk right in and sit right down, i'll keep on loving you, i'll play the clown, but bend down low, let i tell you what i know yah i've been 'buked brothers and i've been stoned, woe, woe, woe, now i'm hung by a tree in the the ganging on a few, woe, woe, woe, it doesn't matter who the man is who lives the life he loves, it doesn't matter what the man does or the honest life he loves, i want somewhere, i want somewhere, hallelujah, hallelujah, somewhere to lay my head, woe is me only ska beat in 'eaven man stiff necked fools, you think you're cool, to deny me for simplicity, yes you have gone, for so long with your love for vanity now, yes you have got the wrong interpretation mixed up with vain imagination, so take jah sun and jah moon and jah rain and jah stars, and forever yes erase your fantasy, yeah, the lips of the righteous teach many, but fools die for want of wisdom, the rich man's wealth is in his city, the righteous wealth is in his holy place, so take jah sun and jah moon and jah rain and jah stars, and forever yes erase your fantasy, destruction of the poor is in their poverty, destruction of the soul is vanity, yeah, but i don't want to rule ya, i don't want to fool ya, i don't want to school ya, things you, you might never know about, yes you have got the wrong interpretation mixed up with vain, vain imagination, stiff necked fools, you think you're cool, to deny me for, oh simplicity love to see, when yah move in the rhythm, love to see when you're dancing from within, it gives great joy to feel such sweet togetherness, everyone's doing and they're doing their best, it remind i of the days in jericho, when we trodden down jericho wall, these are the days when we'll trod true babylon, gonna trod until babylon fall then I saw the angel with the seven seals saying, babylon throne going down
I'm looking for any information on detecting and/or calculating a double point and/or cusp in a bezier curve. An algorithm, literature reference or mail about this is very appreciated,
Avoiding mistakes is certainly highly desirable. However it is also widely acknowledged that perfectionism is inimicable to creativity. And in ordinary life, perfectionism carried beyond a certain point is indicative of a psychological disorder. In the extreme case, a perfectionist becomes so paralyzed by all the possible mistakes he might make that he is unable to even leave the house. In science, we want to discover as much truth about the world as possible and we also want to have as much certainty as possible about these discoveries. Usually there is some trade-off between these two desiderata --- the search for scope and the search for certainty. If 18th century mathematicians had demanded total rigor from Newton and Leibniz then there would probably be no calculus today, because neither of the two could explain calculus in a way that really made sense, since they lacked the concept of a limit. And in fact, because of the lack of a rigorous foundation, they made a number of errors in their use of calculus. It was only a hundred years later that Weistrass was able to give a solid grounding for the ideas of Newton and Leibniz. Nonetheless, what Newton and Leibniz did was undoubtedly science and mathematics gained a great deal more from the application of their important ideas than it lost through the mistakes they made. These are not the rules according to many who post to sci.med and sci.psychology. According to these posters "If it's not supported by carefully designed controlled studies then it's not science." Taken to the extreme, I believe that the attitude that empirical studies are everything and ideas are nothing results in a complete stultification of science. For one thing, an insistence on an elaborate and expensive methodology results in a sort of scientific trade-unionism, where those outside the establishment and lacking institutional or corporate support have no chance to obtain a hearing. (I don't in the least believe that this is the intention of the arbiters of scientific methodology. Nonetheless, it is one of the results.) And although institutional science has certainly produced many wonderful results, I think it is a foolish arrogance for scientists to believe that no one outside the establishment --- and using less than perfect empirical methodology --- will ever come with anything worthwhile. Furthermore, the big bucks approach to science promotes what I think is one of the most significant errors in science: choosing to investigate questions because they can be readily handled by the currently fashionable methodology (or because one can readily get institutional or corporate sponsorship for them) instead of directing attention to those questions which seem to have fundamental significance. For instance, certain questions cannot be easily investigated with statistical methods because the relevant factors are not quantitative. (One could argue that this is the case for almost all questions in many areas of psychology. In my opinion, a perusal of many of the papers resulting from the attempt by psychologists to force these questions into a statistical framework gives the lie to Russell Turpin's assertion that current scientific methods "avoid all known errors.") I think that asking the wrong question is probably the most fundamental error in science. (Ignoring potentially valuable ideas is one of the others.) And I think that scientific journals are full of all too many studies done with impeccable empirical methods but which are worthless because the wrong question was asked in the first place. -- In the arguments between behaviorists and cognitivists, psychology seems less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects.
Well, since someone probably wanted to know, here's this year's playoff matchups on the left, and what the matchups would be next year under the new alignment and playoff-matchup rules. The same 16 teams make the playoffs under next year's rules, and three of the first round matchups are the same (QUE-MTL, CHI-STL, VAN-WIN). PIT --+ +-- CHI | PIT --+ +-- CHI +---+ +---+ | +---+ +---+ NJ --+ | | +-- STL | BUF --+ | | +-- STL +---+ +---+ | +---+ +---+ WAS --+ | | | | +-- DET | QUE --+ | | | | +-- TOR +---+ | | +---+ | +---+ | | +---+ NYI --+ | | +-- TOR | MTL --+ | | +-- CAL +------+ | +------+ BOS --+ | | +-- VAN | WAS --+ | | +-- VAN +---+ | | +---+ | +---+ | | +---+ BUF --+ | | | | +-- WIN | NJ --+ | | | | +-- WIN +---+ +---+ | +---+ +---+ QUE --+ | | +-- CAL | BOS --+ | | +-- DET +---+ +---+ | +---+ +---+ MTL --+ +-- LA | NYI --+ +-- LA ==================================================================== Jim Murawski Sr. Software Engineer (412) 268-2650 [office] Administrative Computing and (412) 268-6868 [fax] Information Services jjm+@andrew.cmu.edu Carnegie Mellon University Office: UCC 155 4910 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 "Le Mieux! Le Magnifique! Soixante Six! Claude...NON!"
The stragegy of the government is interesting. The real fear comes from them doing more than this. This is a voluntary program, and thus harder for us to object to on the surface. Their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. They are pushing to get a standard in place, a secret standard, and if they get it as a standard then they will drive competitors out of the market. It will be legal to sell better, untapable encryption that doesn't have registered keys, but it will be difficult, and thus not a plan for most phone companies. You see, with clipper chip phones you'll be able to talk to any cellular company, or other phones or ports because they will follow the standard. AT&T has already announced a clipper chip encryption product. The government has marketed hard to get major vendors to use these chips. If they get enough market share, they will rule. And thus there will be very little market for systems that can't be tapped by the police. The public isn't that concerned about it now, after all. They freely do calls that anybody with an old TV can listen to today! They won't pay big extra bucks for proprietary phones that secure them only from the police. Well, some people will buy these phones, but they will only work with other proprietary phones, so the market will be small and the phones expensive. Unless they are made in numbers large enough to sell them cheap, only the Mob will buy them. And this means that the FBI will want to track the customer lists of better encryption phones, because "the only reason a person would want one is to evade the police." Interesting.
On a similar note, has anyone found out a way to do this with MS FoxPro for Windows? My setup.ini file was modified on disk 1 (all encrypted).. Well, of course I forgot about Microsoft's stupid arrangement when I got the software, and used my name (it was paid for by the company I'm doing consulting for. When my job is done, it's their software).. Any ideas before I start doing dumb things to a copy of that file?? Mattias ps NO - I don't want to pirate this software. I just want to avoid having to buy a new copy in order to change the registration information and then having a copy lying around I don't use... maybe I can get a new disk 1...
Just got a ss24X based on its good ratings, but am a little under-impressed. First, is it's performance in 16.7 mill. supposed to be comparable to a Trident 8900 (or other unaccelerated VGA)? I came up with only OK performance on WinSpeed. In 256, it was between good and great. Second, does anyone know where to get that JPG viewer "for the SS24X". I saw it on cica or something. Does it work better. Thanks for any help. Greg
I sometimes wonder if Kekule's dream wasn't just a wee bit influenced by aromatic solvent vapors ;-) heh heh.
I am not so sure of Jewish proselytism then, but I would like to relate an account of a recent dinner I had with Jews a few months ago. The dinner was instigated by the aunt of the hostess, whom I had met while visiting my wife in Galveston last October. The dear old aunt (now deceased) was very proud of her Jewish heritage, although not especially devout. Her parents were both murdered in Nazi concentration camps in Austria during WWII because they were Jewish. While conversing with her about politics, world affairs and religion, she remarked that it would be a good idea for me to visit her niece on my return to Atlanta. Within two days of returning to Atlanta, her niece called to invite me over for dinner with her husband. I went, not knowing really what to expect, other than stimulating conversation and fellowship. What I got, however, was rather unexpected. The thrust of the evening's discussion was to condemn the Reagan-Bush policies prohibiting abortion counseling in federally funded family planning clinics, prohibiting the sterilization of minorities on welfare here and in Puerto Rico, on the ban on fetal tissue research, and against the Mexico City policy, "which denies U.S. foreign aid to programs overseas that promote abortion." The crux of their position was to place the blame for the problems of "overpopulation," rampant domestic crime, African starvation, unwed mothers, etc., on Christianity, rather on the fall of Adam. Now, this is not what I had to come to talk about. But every time I tried to bring up the subject of Judaism, they would condemn Jews for Jesus and admonish me against converting to Judaism, "because it involves too much study and effort." And I did not even raise the prospect, nor try to convert them to the truth of Christ! There was certainly no Jewish proselytism going on there. And again, last November I toured a "traditional" Jewish synagogue and was subjected to a 30-minute harangue against Jesus and Christianity in general. I realize that these are two isolated incidents, and that the best supervisor I ever had at work is Jewish, but from my experience, the modern Jew is not known for his proselytism. -- boundary
Up to that point I thought you were talking about the Rosicrucian Order... :-) [No offense intended!]
For a brief, but pretty detailed account, try Hempel's _Philosophy of Natural Science_. This smacks a bit of ideology -- the supposition being that Toricelli's subsequent descriptions of his reasoning are not veridical. It gets dangerously close to an unfalsifiable view of the history and methodology of science if we deny that no subsequent reports of experimenters are reliable descriptions of their "real" reasons. But my point is that this type of case is *not* a rarity. In fact, I was going to point to Pasteur as yet another rather common example -- particularly the studies on spontaneous generation and fermentation. I will readily concede that "ridiculous reasons" can play an important role in how scientists spend their time. But one should not confuse motivation with methodology nor suppose that ridiculous reasons provide the impetus in the majority of cases based on relatively infrequent anecdotal evidence.
To all hardware and firmware gurus: My current home project is to build a huge paddle keyboard for a physically handicapped relative of mine. My goal is for this keyboard to look exactly like an AT sytle keyboard to its host system. This will be a highly endowed keyboard with a Little PCL from Z World at its heart. The only thing I lack is detailed information on the hardware signaling that the 486 (with Windows 3.1 and DOS 5.0) will be expecting. My project is independant of Windows, my hope is that some of you fellow Window's users/programmers will recognize what I need and be willing to point me in the right direction. I have The Winn L. Rosch Hardware Bible (2nd edition). The HB gives most (if not all) of the information I will need concerning scan codes and even a wire diagram for the PS/2 style connector I will need, but it leaves a number of important questions unanswered. 1. Is it synchronous or asynchronous serial communication? I'm guessing synchronous since the host is providing a clock. In either event, how is the data framed? 2. Is it half-duplex or truly one way? I'm guessing half-duplex since the host can turn LEDs on and off. 3. Are there any chipsets available for communicating with the "AT keyboard standard" (other than by cannibalizing a real keyboard)? If anyone knows of a book or article (or any other written source of information) on the above, please advise me at gamet@erg.sri.com. Whatever I do it must be safe for I cannot afford to replace the 486 in the event of a booboo. Thank you for your time. Danke fuer Ihre Zeit.
The only fungus I know of from California is Coccidiomycosis. I hadn't heard that it attacked bone. It attacks lung and if you are especially unlucky, the central nervous system. Nothing new about it. It's been around for years. THey call it "valley fever", since it is found in the inland valleys, not on the coast. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Actually not Jim. I just said that everyone else seemed to have skimmed by that part and not mentioned it. You can get whatever meaning you want from it.
There is a free program called 'xkernel' which does just that. It is by Seth Robertson (seth@ctr.columbia.edu). It takes a sun 3 and boots a limited kernel which allows you to run X. We converted 4 machines over this semester and the speedup is enormously appreciable -- I find them faster than an NCD 15inch black&white XTerminal that we are playing with, and a bigger screen to boot! As a matter of fact, the department just bought some old sun3s at an auction to convert! } Xkernel is available for anonymous ftp from ftp.ctr.columbia.edu } [128.59.64.40] in /Xkernel/Xkernel.shar (/Xkernel is a symlink to the } latest version of Xkernel) Note that the compiled version which is available is for the sun 3/50, but compiling to work for a sun 3/1xx should be quite easy. I am not connected with xkernel except as a satisfied installer and user 8). I may be able to answer questions; feel free to email me.
I had this problem when I first loaded windows. My I/O card is for 2 HD's 2 FD's 1 Parrelel 2 serial (1 for mouse and 1 for my external modem) and a game port. PROBLEM enters. The DARN serial ports have no selection for COM settings, they are stuck on 3 and 4. Good card for HD's and FD's but lousy for serial. I called Microsoft and other places. The long and short of it is WINDOWS wants com1 and 2 ONLY!, for mouse selection. I went out and bought a small I/O card just for parrelel and serial. Now I have ALL 4 active COM ports and LPT1 and LPT2. This Half card was less than $20. Mouse on COM 1 external modem on COM 2, I disabled the LPT2 so I could use the interupt for my scanner card IRQ. C-ya..... /\/\artin
Reasonable doubt dates back to Human Rights. We are now in the time of Civil Rights. Civil Rights are issued by the State with whatever strings attached they choose as the Grantor of said rights. And if that means that verdicts are determined by the needs of the state rather than by guilt or innocence in a traditional sense, so be it. Being subjective rather than objective may make it harder to anticipate what is right, and you may be sacrificed for being wrong inadvertantly once in a while, but that really is a small price to pay for the common good don't you think?
It isn't that rare, actually. Many cases that are called Parkinson's Disease turn out on autopsy to be SND. It should be suspected in any case of Parkinsonism without tremor and which does not respond to L-dopa therapy. I don't believe pallidotomy will do much for SND. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Why so up tight? FOr that matter, TIFF6 is out now, so why not gripe about its problems? Also, if its so important to you, volunteer to help define or critique the spec. Finally, a little numerology: 42 is 24 backwards, and TIFF is a 24 bit image format... Chris
[purile babble deleted] Well, some form of guaranteed health care isn't a bad idea, but, yah, I'm a bit worried of a gubnint-run HMO myself. I'd much rather have something like Canada has [and I'll *belt* anyone who tells me to move to Canada :)], but since people will yell and scream "NO!!! NOT ONE LIKE CANADA HAS!!!", we're probably all screwed. Impressive. Let the "GREAT CHUCKMEISTER" make a couple predictions, if you will: 1. The sun will rise tomorrow. 2. Rush will bash Clinton on his next show. 3. I will turn out to be Clinton's love child. Chances are, I'll get at least one of those right, if I'm lucky. I may even get two. Can't argue with you there. Once the gubnint has its hands in yer pocket, they just can't help but feel around a bit.... Oh, no SH**?! You mean, our weakened economy will collapse in the face of all this gubnint tax-and-spending, and everyone will be in the handout line? You're a GENIUS!! Deficit reduction. Spending cuts via fee increases? No, any first-year PoliSci major will tell you that the Prez *never* raises taxes. Congress does it. All those who voted the Clinton ticket get to wear this *new* label..... +----------------+ +----------------+ Hook, line, and sinker! *chuckle* cpk -- It's been 80 days. Do you know where your wallet is?
Request for Information I have been reading about an organisation called "WinWord Developer's Relations Group". I believe they have produced publications called WinWord Software Development Kit (or WordBasic SDK) and 'The Proceedings of the Windows Developers' Tools Conference, WordBasic' sessions assembled by Steve Wexler. Would you be able to help me with a contact name and address for this organisation or these publications. Thank you
: It is meaningless to compare one player's plus/minus statistic with : another players' out of the context of the role and the playing time : of the players involved. : To compare Jagr's and Francis's plus/minus is ridiculous and absurd... : Gerald Thank you for putting this in perspective!
Still searching for an irrelevant issue in which to mire a pro-lifer, I see. Slimy tactic.
`My Western Digital also has three sets of pins on the back. I am using it with `another hard drive as well and the settings for the jumpers were written right `on the circuit board of the WD drive......MA SL ?? Well, I figured out how the jumpers go. Now I have quite a different problem that has me perplexed like you wouldn't know. I have both drives working, the C: system formatted and all of my hardware installed. Only problem is, that during the boot up sequence, the computer does not want to pass up looking for a system on the A: drive. Reinitialization all goes fine and the BIOS seems to be configured to what is necessary. All the drive tests work, but when the thing comes back around to the a: drive and there is no disk present, it just spins. If you insert a disk into drive a with a system however, it works fine and boots up (ie how installed all my software) Any additional help on this will be most welcome.... swood
: >>point of view, why does SCSI have an advantage when it comes to multi- : >>tasking? Data is data, and it could be anywhere on the drive. Can : >>SCSI find it faster? can it get it off the drive and into the computer : >>faster? Does it have a better cache system? I thought SCSI was good at : >>managing a data bus when multiple devices are attached. If we are : >>only talking about a single drive, explain why SCSI is inherently : >>faster at managing data from a hard drive. : >IDE: Integrated Device Electronics : > currently the most common standard, and is mainly used for medium sized : > drives. Can have more than one hard drive. Asynchronous Transfer: ~5MB/s max. : Why don't you start with the spec-sheet of the ISA bus first? : You can quote SCSI specs till you're blue in the face, but if they : exceed the ISA bus capability, then what's the point? Who said ISA was necessary? EISA or VLB are the only interfaces worth investing thousands of dollars (e.g. a new pc's worth of money ) in . : Who says IDE is limited to 5 megs/sec? What about VLB-IDE? Does anyone : know how they perform? You didn't read to carefully. VLB-IDE uses the same connection mechanism as standard IDE. If transfer rate is limited by IDE, whether it's interfaced to ISA, EISA or VLB matters not. : >So at its LOWEST setting SCSI-2 interface in Asynchronous SCSI-1 mode AVERAGES : >the through put MAXIMUM of IDE in asynchronous mode. In full SCSI-2 mode : >it blows poor IDE out the window, down the street, and into the garbage can. : As implimented on what system? On mine, for one thing. SCSI blows IDE out of the water, hands down. If IDE has better throughput, why isn't it used on workstations and file servers? : >The problem becomes can the drive mechanisim keep up with those through put : >rates and THAT is where the bottleneck and cost of SCSI-2 comes from. NOT : >the interface itself but more and more from drive mechanisims to use the : >SCSI-2 through put. : Given the original question (SCSI used only as a single hard drive : controller), is it then necessary to get a SCSI drive that will do : at least 5, maybe 10 megs/sec for the SCSI choice to make any sence? : What does a 200-400 meg 5 megs/sec SCSI drive cost? No, that's the nice thing -- on a multitasking OS, SCSI can use both drives at once. I've got unix loaded on one of my pcs (along with windogs) and the OS can only use one of the two IDE drives at one time. It's pretty ugly. I just bought at Quantum 240 for my mac at home. I paid $369 for it. I haven't seen IDE drives cheaper. : The original CGA cart back in '84 was $300. I think the original EGA card : (or PGA?) was $800. SCSI has stood relatively alone in not coming down : in price, mainly because we're talking about PC's and not Sun's or Sparc : or SGI or (name your favorite unix workstation). That is, after millions : of PC buying decisions over the years, SCSI has had plenty of time to : come down in price. No, actually, we're talking about SCSI being expensive simply because nobody did a common interface for the PC. If they had a common (read: easily implemented) method of adding scsi to a PC (like as in a Sun or Mac), then you'd find SCSI the connection medium of choice. : I won't argue that the SCSI standard makes for a good, well implimented : data highway, but I still want to know why it intrinsically better : (than IDE, on an ISA bus) when it comes to multi-tasking OS's when : managing data from a single SCSI hard drive. On a single drive, SCSI is more expensive. But, you bought your PC for expandibility, so, you'd want to add more drives or whatever. The following are why I find SCSI intrinsically better than IDE: A (partial?) list: 1. You can add many different types of devices and access them concurrently. 2. A SCSI device works on many different machines (I have a mac and a PC at home and moving hard drives between them is VERY nice with SCSI -- hook them up and away they go) 3. SCSI devices work together better than IDE devices. For instance, recently, I added an older connor 100 meg IDE to a maxtor 212 meg IDE. The connor *MUST* be setup as the slave. It will work no other way. On SCSI, you set the address, check the termination, plug it in, and away it goes. 4. I have a problem with IDE's mutual exclusion - I notice that the time it takes to switch from accessing drive c: to drive d: is quite long as compared to the time it takes to switch from drive c: to d: on a SCSI system. Under a multitasking OS, this is very noticable, as many things can be going on at once. One neat thing that I've noticed lately (a fringe benefit) has been the ability to add older (almost dead) drives as storage on a SCSI system with little problem -- we've got a bunch of almost dead 20 meg drives that I've added to my PC. I've now got the interface full, but, it does allow me to have 4 20 meg drives, 1 240 meg drive, 1 tape drive, and 1 105 meg drive all on the same card. Simply put, SCSI is handier than IDE. No mysterious jumpers to figure out. Greg.
Oh, this is an easy trivia question. The answer is "any Cub not named Sandberg or Grace."
Anybody seen the date get stuck? I'm running MS-DOS 5.0 with a menu system alive all the time. The machine is left running all the time. Suddenly, the date no longer rolls over. The time is (reasonably) accurate allways, but we have to change the date by hand every morning. This involves exiting the menu system to get to DOS. Anyone have the slightest idea why this should be? Even a clue as to whether the hardware (battery? CMOS?) or DOS is broken?
> I wonder if Ojeda will sue anyone - because his career may be over. Not due to the accident -- he just got a (really) bad haircut. Now, if you meant due to his floating fastball, well...
I once read an article on Computer technology which stated that every new computer technology was actually lower and slower then what it replaced. Silicon was less effective then the germanium products then available. GaAs was less capable then Silicon. Multi-processors were slower then existent single processors. What the argument was, though was that these new technologies promised either theoretically future higher performance or lower cost or higher densities. I think that the DC-1 may g=fit into this same model. ELV's can certainly launch more weight then a SSRT, but an SSRT offers the prospect of greater cycle times and lower costs. This is kind of a speculative posting, but I thought i'd throw it out as a hjistorical framework for those interested in the project.
I think that NHLPA' 93 is the best video game available now. of course many things could be done better, but i really appreciate that the names of players are the real ones, no matter if it lacks some logos... I am still playing it since November leading different teams to the finals and making scorers from the same team compete for the top scoring: Yesterday I won the title using Toronto against Hartford (4 games to two), I played the playoffs in a 7 games fashion (5 minutes for each period) and the best scorer and shooter was Gilmour (116 shots if I remember well) -- _____________________________________________________ Iskander AYARI
Senile keratoses. Have nothing to do with the liver. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
On the code I sent, please replace the line: XtAddCallback(PopUpShell, XtNcallback, MyPopUp, (XtPointer)PopUpShell); by XtAddCallback(Button, XtNcallback, MyPopUp, (XtPointer)PopUpShell); --- The rest (and my question) remains the same...
Not a typo. It was uploaded to ftp.cica.indiana.edu a couple days back. Version 3.4 uses standard Windows printer drivers. Ashok
Who said Christians want to conform to the teachings of Jesus?
I'm considering the purchase of a 486DX-33 VLB system to run linux. The system has an ASUS-brand motherboard. Anyone have any comments on ASUS motherboards? Thanks,
As I've mentioned in the rules posting, I will be out of town until the day before the entry deadline, so I won't be able to respond to your messages until April 18. I would be grateful if someone could repost the rules and instructions for the playoff pool sometime next week, for the benefit of those who missed the first two postings. Thanks. -- Andrew Scott | andrew@idacom.hp.com HP IDACOM Telecom Operation | (403) 462-0666 ext. 253
And they deserve to be, if for no other reason than salvaging a little of the honor of the NL West. The supposed strongest division in baseball lost 6 of 7 to the East yesterday, with only the Astros prevailing. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length paula@koufax.cv.hp.com Paul Andresen Hewlett-Packard (503)-750-3511
This might be a silly question but I have to ask it anyway. I am in the process of purchasing an EISA/VL Bus 486 DX2-66 computer and I found two places that sell machines that have what I want and have the same price. The first is Ares and they use a Cache motherboard (that's the brand of the motherboard) with OPTI chip set, the other is Micron (formerly Edge Technology) and they use the Micronics EISA/VLB motherboard. I said that this might be a silly question since I believe that Micronics is a very well known motherboard manufacturer while I never heard of Cache! I am however leaning towards the Ares machine because my impression is that they are known for building good, solid machines and they have good tech support (24 hr, 7 days/wk), and a better warrantee (2 years). Micron, on the other hand, seems to have recently aquired Edge Technologies and I'm not sure how much I should trust the company. I would REALLY appreciate any input on this. Is the Micron machine the clear choice? Does anyone know anything positive or negative about either company? Has anyone ever heard of Cache motherboards? Should I go with Micron just because it has the Micronics motherboard? etc. Thanks very much in advance for any information.
You forget that Apollo was a Government program and had to start relatively from scratch. Some people at NASA think that this could work. One of them replied to me personally after I posted this original message several days ago. I have heard Jerry Pournelle suggest this idea before.
Forwarded from Neal Ausman, Galileo Mission Director GALILEO MISSION DIRECTOR STATUS REPORT POST-LAUNCH April 9 - 15, 1993 SPACECRAFT 1. On April 9, real-time commands were sent, as planned, to reacquire celestial reference after completion of the Low Gain Antenna (LGA-2) swing/Dual Drive Actuator (DDA) hammer activities. 2. On April 9, the EJ-1 (Earth-Jupiter #1) sequence memory load was uplinked to the spacecraft without incident. This sequence covers spacecraft activity from April 12, 1993 to June 14, 1993 and includes a window for the Radio Relay Antenna (RRA) slew test on April 28, 1993. The command loss timer was set to 11 days as a part of this sequence memory load. 3. On April 12 and 15, a NO-OP command was sent to reset the command loss timer to 264 hours, its planned value during this mission phase. 4. On April 12, cruise science Memory Readouts (MROs) were performed for the Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrometer (EUV), Dust Detector (DDS), and Magnetometer (MAG) instruments. Preliminary analysis indicates the data was received properly. 5. On April 12, an Ultra-Stable Oscillator (USO) test was performed to verify the health status of the USO and to collect gravitational red shift experiment data; long term trend analysis is continuing. 6. On April 14, a 40bps modulation index test was performed to determine the optimal Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) when transmitting at 40bps. Preliminary analysis of the data suggests that the present pre-launch selected modulation index is near the optimal level. 7. On April 15, cruise science Memory Readouts (MROs) were performed for the Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrometer (EUV) and Magnetometer (MAG) instrument. Preliminary analysis indicates the data was received properly. 8. On April 15, a periodic RPM (Retro-Propulsion Module) 10-Newton thruster flushing maintenance activity was performed; all 12 thrusters were flushed during the activity. Thruster performance throughout the activity was nominal. 9. The AC/DC bus imbalance measurements have not exhibited significant changes (greater than 25 DN) throughout this period. The AC measurement reads 19 DN (4.3 volts). The DC measurement reads 111 DN (12.9 volts). These measurements are consistent with the model developed by the AC/DC special anomaly team. 10. The Spacecraft status as of April 15, 1993, is as follows: a) System Power Margin - 60 watts b) Spin Configuration - Dual-Spin c) Spin Rate/Sensor - 3.15rpm/Star Scanner d) Spacecraft Attitude is approximately 18 degrees off-sun (lagging) and 6 degrees off-earth (leading) e) Downlink telemetry rate/antenna- 40bps(coded)/LGA-1 f) General Thermal Control - all temperatures within acceptable range g) RPM Tank Pressures - all within acceptable range h) Orbiter Science- Instruments powered on are the PWS, EUV, UVS, EPD, MAG, HIC, and DDS i) Probe/RRH - powered off, temperatures within acceptable range j) CMD Loss Timer Setting - 264 hours Time To Initiation - 260 hours GDS (Ground Data Systems): 1. Galileo participated in a second DSN (Deep Space Network) acceptance test for the DSN Telemetry Phase 3 Upgrade on April 13, 1993, using CTA-21 (Compatibility Test Area 21). The purpose of this test was to verify the flow of Galileo telemetry data through the new Telemetry Group Controller (TGC) and the Telemetry Channel Assembly (TCA). The TGC/TCA is the replacement for the current Telemetry Processing Assembly (TPA). Seven different telemetry rates were run for this test; all ran well on both the MTS (MCCC Telemetry Subsystem) and the AMMOS MGDS V18.0 GIF with the exception of 10bps. The 10bps rate had some trouble staying in lock; it appears the TGC/TCA was not metering the data correctly. Further comparisons between the MGDS and MTS data from this test are being conducted. MVT (Mission Verification Test) of the TGC/TCA system is expected to begin May 16, 1993. TRAJECTORY As of noon Thursday, April 15, 1993, the Galileo Spacecraft trajectory status was as follows: Distance from Earth 152,606,000 km (1.02 AU) Distance from Sun 277,519,800 km (1.86 AU) Heliocentric Speed 93,400 km per hour Distance from Jupiter 543,973,900 km Round Trip Light Time 17 minutes, 4 seconds SPECIAL TOPIC
That sounds like an old _Dragnet_ episode. "Joe and I went to the apartment of Prime Suspect. Nobody answered the door, but his landlord gave us permission to search the apartment." Perhaps that worked in California in the 60's, but as I understand the law landlords do _not_ have authority to grant permission to search space rented by a third party, provided the lease is not in default, etc. (I'm not even sure if they can provide the master key, when shown a search warrant, since the _subject_ of the search is supposed to be notified). At this point the question becomes: did the user "rent" the disk space her encrypted file occupies? If she did, it _should_ fall under the same body of case law that applies to apartments, storage lockers, etc. (As to whether any court would recognize this fact....) If she did not (i.e., no compensation exchanged), I don't know how it would be treated -- there doesn't seem to be a non-cyberspace equivalent.
Hi there I am very interested in Rayshade 4.00. I have managed to make a chessboard for Rayshade. Unfortunately I still have to do the knight (horse). Any ideas? I am also looking for a surface for the chesspieces. The board is marble. Unfortunately black won't work very well for the one side. Anybody with ideas for nice surfaces? I would also like to use the image command of rayshade and the heightfield command. Unfortunately the manual is very vague about this, and I don't have Craig Kolb's email address. Anybody with ideas, because this is essential for my next venture into raytracing. Where should I post the finished chessboard? Is there anybody else using rayshade on non-Unix systems? How fast does Unix render? Thanks
Why thanks for your reply to my post. By the way, I never, never ever said that it was right to shoot "THOSE kind" of babies. However it was the Branch Davidian people in there that insisted on staying there with their "savior" (yeah right budy boy) because he had brain-washed them into believing that what ever he says is the truth, even if means that they are to give up their lives for <<<<HIS>>>> cause. Therefore it is Davids fault and not the ATF's who gave them 50 to 51 days to get out, this was 50 days to many for me and for many of the rest of the U.S. I am however sad to hear of the death of any child unlike the sick bastard I supposedly am.
I had this one time. I attributed it to a lack of sleep since it disappeared after a few nights of good zzz's.
You're right: Thomas, Gonzalez, Sheffield, and Griffey don't even begin to compare with Ripken, Boggs, and Gwynn, so no wonder Alomar gets so much attention. Sandberg got no attention his rookie year because his rookie year was terrible. So was his sophomore year. National League pitchers are "much better pitchers"? That certainly explains Sheffield's 1993, hm? Are you confusing "have ERA's that are 0.40 lower because they don't face DH's" with "much better"?
Why is this surprising? Then the _Times_ can get a few more Pulitzers the same way they did last year. --
He also ignores a few other things. While organics would become significantly more expensive were all the oil to disappear (and thus some things would no longer be economically feasible), oil is hardly an irreplaceable resource any more than most other consumables. As supply decreases, prices rise and alternatives become more competetive. He also needs to consider that there has been an estimated 30 years of reserves pretty much as long as anyone has cared about petroleum; whatever the current usage rate is, we always seem to have about a 30 year reserve that we know about. [I'm not sure that last figure is still true -- we tend not to look as hard when prices are comparatively cheap -- but it was certainly true during hte 'oil crisis' days of the 70's.] -- "Insisting on perfect safety is for people who don't have the balls to live in the real world." -- Mary Shafer, NASA Ames Dryden
I am asking you to believe in things not visible. I don't know if this is believeing blindly or not. I'm not sure how blindness comes into it. I do not deny reason, indeed I insist upon it, but reason only draws conclusions from evidence. If you decide in advance that your reason will act only on the evidence of the five physical senses, then you cut reason off from any possibility of reaching a conclusion outside the physical sphere (beyond the rather provocative, if inconclusive, conclusion that the physical sphere is not self explanatory). Christians claim that they have received a different kind of evidence, which they call faith, and which is a gift of God. That is, this evidence is the evidence of a thing which chooses to reveal or hide itself. The evidence of the senses cannot tell you is such a ting exists. Reasoning on the evidence of the senses won't help either. But Christians do reason of the evidence of faith, and do claim that this evidence is wholly consistent with the evidence of the other senses, and indeed, that the evidence of these other senses is part of God's revelation of himself to us. It is not necessarilly the case however that knowledge of a God must come through this route. There may be other senses than the physical ones providing evidence of non-physical realities. (There may, of course, be physical realities of a type for which we have no corresponding senses, for all we know.) These senses, if they exist, may provide valid evidence for reason to work on. And, as with all senses, these senses may be impaired in some people, that is, they may be spiritually blind. In this sense, belief in God becomes an act of sight, and it is disbelief which is blind. Faith, as I have said, is not opposed to reason, it is simply a new source of evidence on which reason may operate. It is clear that human beings have many systems for explaining the evidence of the physical senses, and similarly there are many systems for explaining the evidence provided by faith. Religious believers in general, and Christians in particular, use reason to help sift through the evidence to come to a clearer understanding of the evidence provided by faith. Science claims, with good reason, to be the most valid system for explaining the physical universe, and Christianity claims, also with good reason, to be the most valid system, possessed of the best evidence, for explaining Gods revelations of himself to man. If you doubt that Christians use reason, read this newsgroup for a while and you will see rational debate aplenty.
Ethnocentric USian that I am, I've assumed that we and the xUSSR were the only countries with significant capabilities to track non-cooperative objects in low Earth orbit. Grazing in a couple of databases recently, I found that Japan has some optical capabilities along this line, and also uses a radar designed for other purposes for orbital debris surveys (it isn't clear whether the radar can determine orbital elements for the objects it detects). Abstracts of the articles are appended. This leads to the more general question: do yet other people than the US, Russia, and Japan do space surveillance, and if so, how and why? Allen Thomson SAIC McLean, VA, USA ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ABSTRACTS Optical tracking of the experimental geodetic satellite (EGS) TAKABE, MASAO; ITABE, TOSHIKAZU; ARUGA, TADASHI Radio Research Laboratory, Review (ISSN 0033-801X), vol. 34, March 1988, p. 23-34. In Japanese, with abstract in English. This paper reports the optical tracking results of EGS (experimental geodetic satellite) which was launched on August 13, 1986, by NASDA. The EGS optical tracking experiment process and an outline of the Radio Research Laboratory (RRL) optical ground <---- station are discussed. A star tracking technique for optical equipment calibration and satellite tracking technique for orbit prediction improvement are also described. The accuracy of EGS tracking data obtained by RRL at the request of NASDA is also discussed. In addition, it is briefly demonstrated that the position of the Japanese amateur satellite (JAS-1) which was launched with the EGS, was accurately determined by means of a <---- satellite tracking video. It is clear from this experiment that <---- optical observation data (i.e., satellite direction data) are very <---- useful for satellite orbit determination during initial launch <---- stages. Furthermore, the results confirm the effectivenes of these <---- two satellite optical tracking techniques. <---- MU radar measurements of orbital debris SATO, TORU; KAYAMA, HIDETOSHI; FURUSAWA, AKIRA; KIMURA, IWANE (Kyoto University, Japan) AIAA, NASA, and DOD, Orbital Debris Conference: Technical Issues and Future Directions, Baltimore, MD, Apr. 16-19, 1990. 10 p. RPN: AIAA PAPER 90-1343 Distributions of orbital debris versus height and scattering cross section are determined from a series of observations made with a high- power VHF Doppler radar (MU radar) of Japan. An automated data processing algorithm has been developed to discriminate echoes of orbiting objects from those of undesired signals such as meteor trail echoes or lightning atmospherics. Although the results are preliminary, they showed good agreement with those from NORAD tracking radar <---- observations using a much higher frequency. It is found that the <---- collision frequency of a Space Station of 1 km x 1 km size at an altitude of 500 km with orbiting debris is expected to be as high as once per two years. Monitoring of the MU radar antenna pattern by Satellite Ohzora (EXOS-C) SATO, T.; INOOKA, Y.; FUKAO, S. (Kyoto Univ., Japan); KATO, S. Kyoto Univ., Uji (Japan). Radio Atmospheric Science Center. In International Council of Scientific Unions, Middle Atmosphere Program. Handbook for MAP, Vol. 20 5 p Publication Date: Jun. 1986 As the first attempt among MST (mesosphere stratosphere troposphere) type radars, the MU (middle and upper atmosphere) radar features an active phased array system. Unlike the conventional large VHF radars, in which output power of a large vacuum tube is distributed to individual antenna elements, each of 475 solid state power amplifier feeds each antenna element. This system configuration enables very fast beam steering as well as various flexible operations by dividing the antenna into independent subarrays, because phase shift and signal division/combination are performed at a low signal level using electronic devices under control of a computer network. The antenna beam can be switched within 10 microsec to any direction within the zenith angle of 30 deg. Since a precise phase alignment of each element is crucial to realize the excellent performance of this system, careful calibration of the output phase of each power amplifier and antenna element was carried out. Among various aircraft which may be used for this purpose artificial satellites have an advantage of being able to make a long term monitoring with the same system. An antenna pattern monitoring system for the MU radar was developed using the scientific satellite OHZORA (EXOS-C). A receiver named MUM (MU radar antenna Monitor) on board the satellite measures a CW signal of 100 to 400 watts transmitted from the MU radar. The principle of the measurement and results are discussed.
. . . Why do you assume that Jesus's plea to His Father "to let this cup pass from Him", was merely a plea to escape death? When I look at Jesus in the garden, I see a Man-God, who all His life had had the presense of His Father with Him. As a result, He knew every detail about His death long before the Agony in the Garden. But as that hour approached, He felt abandoned by His Father, His presense diminishing with each passing minute. In addition, it was brought more and more to Jesus's attention (the betrayal of Judas was probably a big impact) that His suffering would be to no avail for many people, especially those who would reject Him, not only then but in the future. I truly believe that the majority of Jesus's suffering was mental and spiritual, while the physical portion was only the tip of the iceburg. BTW, we know from John's account that Jesus *shunned* becomming an earthly king. From John: JOH 6:14 After the people saw the miraculous sign that Jesus did, they began to say, "Surely this is the Prophet who is to come into the world." JOH 6:15 Jesus, knowing that they intended to come and make him king by force, withdrew again to a mountain by himself. This does not seem like a man who would regret not becoming an earthly king. No, Jesus knew His mission was to redeem all (Jew & Gentile) people and establish His kingdom in the hearts of those who would believe. This was utterly mistaken, much to Jesus's dismay, as an aspiration to some earthly kingdom. But He knew what His Father's will was and followed it obediently even in the darkness of His Passion.
Detroit's going to beat Toronto in 6 or LESS!!! Granted, Gilmour should get the Hart Trophy, NOT Lemieux... Just Look at what Gilmour did for Toronto. When you think of Toronto, who comes to mind, Gilmour, Andreychuk, Potvin...ah...did I mentio n Gilmour? Back to Detroit... There really isn't a team that could stand up to them if all the players on the team play to their potential, no one could stop them. Yzerman, Fedorov, Coffey, Lindstrom... there's more firepower there than Pittsburgh... and they don't tri p over their own skates! ----------------------------------------------------------------------- /------------/ Detroit over Toronto in 5 Patrick Walker / /--\------/ Detroit over Chicago in 6 University of New Bruns. ! ! !---/ Detroit over Vancouver in 6 Canada \ \__/ / Detroit over Nords in 6 "Disco Still Sucks!"
What I was talking about was using an Tek terminal as your X display. I should be possible to write an X server that does this as far as I can tell, but what I'm asking is if there is already one. -- mike@hopper.acs.virginia.edu
Farr's ERA is in the
I don't think your objection is beyond the bounds of rationality. The right mentioned in the bill is already established under the Second Amendment; the bill should be reworded to reaffirm the Second Amendment RKBA, and then establish the procedures for redress through the federal court system. The right already exists and is already embodied in our Constitution.
Then allow me to enlighten you, Rex. You see, there's a thing called a tie. A tie is worth one point (I know, I know. You're not good at math. But bear with me). A win is worth two points. So, getting two ties is the same as getting one win. If your team played two games, won one and lost one, you'd have two points. If my team played two games and tied them both, we'd also have two points. We'd be tied in the standings even though our records are different. Perhaps you should learn something about hockey before posting again. (I am starting to sound like Roger or what?)
I saw a mask once that had drawings of band-aids, presumably for every puck that goalie stopped with his face/head. I can't remember who it was or even if it was NHL (I see quite a few AHL games here). This is by far the funniest mask I've seen, and for me funny=cool
See, we are disagreeing on the definition of moral here. Earlier, you said that it must be a conscious act. By your definition, no instinctive behavior pattern could be an act of morality. You are trying to apply human terms to non-humans. I think that even if someone is not conscious of an alternative, this does not prevent his behavior from being moral. I try to show it, but by your definition, it can't be shown. And, morality can be thought of a large class of princples. It could be defined in terms of many things--the laws of physics if you wish. However, it seems silly to talk of a "moral" planet because it obeys the laws of phyics. It is less silly to talk about animals, as they have at least some free will.
