And, had not these citizens accepted the moral responsibility to protect their own lives, there could well have been at least 13 innocent victims lying dead and several criminals still out walking the streets perpetrating their crimes on others.
I realize I'm entering this discussion rather late, but I do have one question. Wasn't it a Reagan appointee, James Watt, a pentacostal christian (I think) who was the secretary of the interior who saw no problem with deforestation since we were "living in the last days" and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods anyway?
Oh, you foolish person. I do know what the fuck I'm talking about and will gladly demonstrate for such ignorants as yourself if you wish. The legalization of drugs will provide few if any of the benefits so highly taunted by its proponents: safer, cheaper drugs along with revenues from taxes on those drugs; reduced crime and reduced organized crime specifically; etc, etc If you would like to prove how clueless you are, we can get into why - again a lot of wasted posts that I don't think this group was intended for and something easily solved by you doing a little research. Making you look bad is too damn easy. The vast social and historical differences between alcohol and other drugs make this comparison worthless. And so it shall be if the government (by the people) decides that these vices are detrimental to the society as a whole.
What I don't understand is why Yep. They are popular vehicles. You don't see a lot of previous model year ones sitting on dealer's lots for any lenghth of time after the new ones are out. The things sell, they are popular. Because they are popular, and high-priced new, they are high price used, very simple. I knew they were overpriced when I bought it... I knew they had a terrible reliability record when I bought it. But I didn't expect anything like I got, especially with a dealer network unable to repair it. Personal experience has quickly cured me of my infatuation with the machine.
COuld he? And the first three that died, when guns ablazing in came the BATF and FBI? I imagine I would have some trouble giving up my children to someone who had just shot -- what -- two of them? NB: It takes two sets of guns in a situation like this. Fanatical: those whowill not tolerate another's way of life Religious: Based on emotional, internal, or otherwise lacking in commonly defined _scientific_ basis, including legal ones, such as this old saw: Innocent untilproven guilty not Innocent until presumed guilty Who is the fanatic? Note who is dead; this usually bespeaks a fair bit for the idea that the OTHER side also had lethal weapons, used fatally. They are dead: the children. At best Koresh was an asshole and the government criminally negligent in its hadni\ling of the case. At worst, Koresh and his followers were innocent not brainwashed guilty of illegal arms possession (as yet unproven) and murderedd along with 25 children They cannot speak for themselves Members of the (surviving, alive, and not burned to death) BATF/FBI can, and are inappropriately to the public eye outside the bounds of their legal authorities read the charter: the Constitution specifies that the COURTS convict, while the enforcement arm INVESTIGATES, and that the evidence involved shuld not be disseminated in a way to harm or injure a party involved prior to that action; its called slander or libel (even where factually true butthen distoted or disseminated with intent to harm for the purpose of covering their butts because the bottom line is: they SAID they wanted the kids to get out alive and theFBI, the BATF, Ms. Reno, the Prez, and EVERYBODY ELSE IN THIS SICK SELFSERVING GROUP OF UPRIGHT ANIMALS that used to be a freedom loving peaceful country called America: look up the name, it might surprise you has turned the "point the finger of blame" on the OTHER guy. and LET THOSE KIDS DIE. Note well: they lived 51 days; they only died when attacked by outside force. SPock's World, Diane Duane: The spear in the heart of another is the spear in your own .... ALL of us are responsible. Iam; you are. The question is not whether, but how: Guess what: you get to make up your own mind on that. Who created the war zone? You should be ashamed of bypassing that. It's the same damned (Literally) comment made by the folks in the former Yugoslavia to justify Ethnic Cleansing: "Gee, they had the guns, all they had to do was surrender". Whose "cause" did they die for? The one where they lived, peacibly, to all known purposes (until proven in COurt, folks!), or the Cuase of Righteous Government SafeGuarding The Freedom Of The CHildren Who are now dead. AgainI say: I do NOT know who did what I was NOT there. The FBI leaders show moral SICKness trying to convict in the press ahead of schedule And you should look over your shoulder, becuase if there is anything my ruminations that actually sets onto real fact of what happened and I do not know that; I am defending people who ahving been burned to death cannot speak for themselves you may, in 22-5 years, find that the concept in our Court system has gone from Due Processss to Due Profit and the BATF come to collect their fair share of the tax on the value of your house if you rented it for income which is going down now, folks. Read Bankruptcy 1995 Its accurate in figures and it bypasses the greedy businessman and mankers who have taken profit from the corruption of our govbernment. Look to where the money went, folks. You got $10 for medicare that paid a doctor for $00.50 worth of medicine. This is the customaryprofitmargin to businessmen for goernment entitlements. Who wll own the land of the cult now? Note well: it WAS nonproift, religious, and nontaxable. Large tract of land .... hmmm. Use your brains, folks: it happened Germany, and it can happen here. 4.3 trillion (admitted) and counting.... royc.
Stuff deleted...
Indeed! Word is, Intel's lawsuit against AMD was absolutely THROWN OUT of court Monday! AMD said they would be shipping chips WITH THE INTEL INSTRUCTION SET next week!!! 486 chip prices are going to go through the floor, mark my words!!! Regards, Gordon.
On the question, "Does God hear the prayers of sinners?" we need to distinguish. If we say that He never hears the prayers of any who have sinned, we make pointless all prayers by anyone born less than 19 centuries ago. But if we consider the prayers of the impenitent sinner, of someone who says, "Lord, I want you to do this for me, but don't expect me to change my way of life," that is a different matter. Even here, I would not venture to say that God never grants such petitions (just as He sends sun and rain on the evil and on the good). However, if someone we know well is praying to God in that spirit, we might have the responsibility to say, "Remember, if God's help is real, then so are His commands."
1. Do a straight encryption of your keyrings and put the results with misleading names somewhere they won't be noticed (eg. in the \windows directory; nobody knows what half those files are). 2. Do a straight encryption of a .BAT file that will decrypt the keyrings to RAMdisk and will set PGPPATH to point at it. 3. Set up another .BAT file to decrypt and execute the first (again on RAM disk). Have it take the name of the target file as an argument so that there is no link between this file and the (non-existent) batch file referred to by the rest of the system. Comment it so it looks like a test script for fooling around with PGP. Set PGPPATH to the PGP directory. 4. Leave the original keyrings that came with PGP in the directory with PGP; a good indication that you are playing with, but haven't made serious use of PGP. Add a set of keys with your name and a really simple passphrase. Never use it, or use it as your widely published key for low-security e-mail. 5. When needed, run the second .BAT file. Make sure all intermediate and plainfiles are generated on RAMdisk. 6. When you hear the concussion grenade, hit the power switch. Cheers, Marc --- Marc Thibault | CIS:71441,2226 | Put another log marc@tanda.isis.org | NC FreeNet: aa185 | on the fire. -----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK----- Version: 2.0
Hello, I have three software packages for sale: 1. The Norton pcANYWHERE version 4.5 for dos. This software include host and remote software. It can control both dos and windows 3.1 (both standard and enhanced modes) activities. Registration card is enclosed. Price: $40.00 2. The Norton AntiVirus for windows and dos version 2.1. It can update virus information any time. It also support networks. Registration card is enclosed. Price: $40.00 3. DeltaGraph Professional for Windows 3.1. This is the BEST graphics presentation program I have ever seen. Registration card is enclosed. Reg. Price: $495.00 Price: $150.00 Thank you for your attention.
Why retract your accusation that he's a liar? If Omran retracts his "verbal diarrohea" doesn't that only prove the liar he *really* is? A retraction would be pointless! Giving this guy the opportunity to "save face" after uttering such bullshit would just encourage him to do it again! I must say that your style is very impressive, Mark. Keep it up! - Mike
I have a set of four 235-60-R14 Big O tires that I had on my 1988 Thunder Bird. We bought them and then traided the car in. They would not give me anything for them so I had them taken off. We drove about 2,000 miles on them. They are 40,000 mile tires. They are sporty looking low-profile, and take corners realy well. If you are interested please contact me at (208)384- 9236 OR DUSMADSO@IDBSU.IDBSU.EDU I am in IDAHO. USA
Hello. Is it possible to know minimize program manager when starting an application and to restore it when the application is ended ? If possible, please tell me how to do it !
frank@D012S658.uucp (Frank O'Dwyer) writes ... While I'll agree that these are generally held to be "good things", I question whether they come very close to being objective values. Especially considering that at one time or another each has been viewed as being undesirable. I doubt you could even come up with anything that could be said to be universally "good" or "bad". And when I referred to "the truth" I was using the term hypothetically, realizing full well that there may not even be such a thing. True enough. But they cannot be said to be anything more than personal morals. One thing notably lacking in most extremists is any sense of _personal_ accountability - the justification for any socially unacceptable behaviour is invariably some "higher authority" (aka, absolute moral truth). An objective truth that says one cannot know the objective truth? Interesting notion. :-) Certainly one can have as one's morals a belief that compromise is good. But to compromise on the absolute truth is not something most people do very successfully. I suppose one could hold compromise as being an absolute moral, but then what happens when someone else insists on no compromise? How do you compromise on compromising? Almost invariably when considering the relative value of one thing over another, be it morals or consequences, people only consider those aspects which justify a desired action or belief. In justifying a commitement to peace I might argue that it lets people live long & healthy and peaceful lives. While that much may well be true, it is incomplete in ignoring the benefits of war - killing off the most agressive member of society, trimming down the population, stimulating production. The equation is always more complex than presented. To characterize relative morals as merely following one's own conscience / desires is to unduly simplify it.
I see, it is not rational, but it is intellectual. Does madness qualify as intellectual engagement, too? Exactly why science uses mathematics. QM representation in natural language is not supposed to replace the elaborate representation in mathematical terminology. Nor is it supposed to be the truth, as opposed to the representation of gods or religions in ordinary language. Admittedly, not every religion says so, but a fancy side effect of their inept representations are the eternal hassles between religions. And QM allows for making experiments that will lead to results that will be agreed upon as being similar. Show me something similar in religion. With the effect that the models presented are useless. And one can argue that the other way around, namely that the only reason metaphysics still flourish is because it makes no statements that can be verified or falsified - showing that it is bogus.
I first heard it about academic politics but the same thought seems to apply to the BMWMOA "The politics is so dirty because the stakes are so small." Who cares? I get my dues-worth from the ads and occasional technical articles in the "News". I skip the generally drab articles about someone's trek across Iowa. If some folks get thrilled by the power of the BMWMOA, they deserve whatever thrills their sad lives provide. BTW, I voted for new blood just to keep things stirred up.
Do you know of any freely distributable c++ (or c) code for public key cryptography (such as RSA)? I've tried various archie searches to no avail.
As quoted from <1993Apr14.184448.2331@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu> by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu: That depends only on the profit of doing so. The differences in cost of production will determine local vs smuggle. Those of us who have actually made semi-autos (full-autos are easier) are getting quite a giggle out of this. I'd estimate that 5% of the people at my high school couldn't do it. (I was one of the few who failed shop.) People who have actually seen me do mechanical work would probably say that 1% is more like it. Starting with even 90% of the population, you can be sure that "enough" people will be motivated. How much is "through the nose"? After all, we know quite a bit about how much a gun is worth to a criminal, so if that is dwarfed by the price demanded by the "bad" part of that 90%.... The relevant economic analysis has been made. The "profit" of gun crime is high enough that the price required to push criminals out of the market is high enough that everyone will be motivated. That analysis ignored some "improvements" in the criminal gun market that could make them even cheaper. (They're not efficiently used now, but a "loaner" set up would drive the value still higher without affecting criminal use.) -andy
ith ork? Sure thing - You'll have to get an FDHD upgrade kit from Apple, which includes a HD floppy drive, 2 different chips (the SWIM chip was mentioned in another post) and a different floppy drive cable. Get the Apple kit through your dealer.
how so? i think you're making assumptions here that might not necessarily be true. -my- personal choice would be a semi-auto, but revolvers are just as effective, if not more so. relevancy, please? you sound shocked, but that hardly proves anything. wait, doesn't Chicago have -serious- gun control? if so, why do the police need all that firepower in the first place? (sarcasm alert) all the patrol cars i've seen around here have shotguns clamped to the dash board. IMHO, that's all the police need to outgun just about anything. jason
However, also be aware that Implementor's notes are basicly recommendations, they are *NOT* part of the spec. As others have noted, many vendors (including SGI) violate this. Indeed, the main point is to reduce impedance changes, and therefore reflections, and therefore 'noise' on the bus.
Here are some cool 3-D background patterns I made. Edit your CONTROL.INI and add the following lines to your [Patterns] section. Bricks=148 43 86 172 89 182 99 201 Tile=1 43 85 43 85 43 85 255 Tile (diagonal)=148 107 54 156 73 182 99 201 Slats=0 170 85 170 85 170 85 255 Make sure your desktop color is one of the standard 16 colors or the patterns might not work. I like dark grey the best with these.
Too right it does! The --VERY VERY FIRST-- thing you do is make sure that --ALL-- files on the floppies that you can currently read in the drive, which aren't already on your HD or another floppy (if you have -two- floppy drives) get copied to your HD (and/or to a floppy in your other drive). If you don't do this before fixing the alignment problem you have kissd those files goodbye. (Well, you can -try- to re-misalign the drive back to read your floppies, but don't count on be able to do so!) Generally, head alignment is something I'd only trust to a good repair shop (though there are/have been DIY guides).
I have a cheap solar charger that I keep in my car. I purchased it via some mail order catalog when the 4 year old battery in my Oldsmobile would run down during Summer when I was riding my bike more than driving my car. Knowing I'd be selling the car in a year or so, I purchased the charger. Believe it or not, the thing worked. The battery held a charge and energetically started the car, many times after 4 or 5 weeks of just sitting. Eventually I had to purchase a new battery anyway because the Winter sun wasn't strong enough due to its low angle. I think I paid $29 or $30 for the charger. There are more powerful, more expensive ones, but I purchased the cheapest one I could find. I've never used it on the bike because I have an E-Z Charger on it and keep it plugged in all the time the bike is garaged.
Perhaps not in Christianity, but in Islam the choice of religious leaders is to be made by the people. So much for your superiority argument. Democracy is a basic element of Islam. Learn that one! Ever notice that the so-called "fundamentalists" in Algeria who are being repressed by the secular government won in free and democratic elections.
: Could someone direct me to information on SCSI performance for each Mac? : (Max throughput, etc.) Max thruput on a Centris or Quadra is about 3.3 MB/sec. Max thruput on IIci or IIfx or equivalent is about 1.4 MB/Sec Max thruput on slower machines is slower.
I am considering buying an new car, so I called three insurance companies in California to get estimates. I asked for the same coverage and same deductibles. Most of the companies charge you according to your zip code. Others charge according to your city. Anyhow, I gave the same zip code and city to all three places. Here's what I found (for a '93 Integra GS): AAA: ~$2000/yr. State Farm: 2614.92/yr. Allstate: 1220/yr. AAA is non-profit, so they said I could also expect to receive about $200-300 back at the end of the year. Still, There is a huge gap between all of these companies. State Farm wants MORE than TWICE as much as Allstate. I think I should be suspicious, but I've never heard anybody else complain. Any comments?
...and in San Francisco recently, some of our finest examples of humanity poured oil over a road so that vehicles going uphill would suddnely become immobile, and then they would walk right up to the vehicles and make their demands known. --------------------------------+--------------------------------------- Mark Barnes, System Engineer | <insert standard disclaimers here> SunSoft | Corporate Technical Escalations | I speak for myself, an individual, Menlo Park, CA, USA | not for the company for which I work. barnesm@vavau.Corp.Sun.COM | --------------------------------+---------------------------------------
ITEM: Klipsch Forte 2 Speakers CONDITION: Mint AGE: 6 months old PRICE: $1000/pair (retail: $1400/pair)
Apple doesn't make such a card, though I suppose a third party could. One big problem is that there isn't room for a standard NuBus card inside the LC III. noah
For a VGA card these are the correct files but you can't just copy them back and expect it to work. You have to create a new WIN.COM file. Try the command (you will have to worry about what directories each file is in since I don't know your setup): COPY /B WIN.CNF+VGALOGO.LGO+VGALOGO.RLE WIN.COM (I grabbed this from _Supercharging Windows_ by Judd Robbins--great book) This is also how you can put your own logo into the Windows startup screen. An RLE file is just a specially compressed BMP file. Hope this helps
If this is any surprise to you, *I'm* shocked.
Thus said ee92jks@brunel.ac.uk (Jonathan K Saville): PGP is not available on the archive site rsa.com. If it were, it would be highly amusing, since rsa.com (actually Public Key Partners, but it's the same entity) is the organization holding the patents which they claim are violated if you actually "make, use or sell" PGP. I believe those patents also apply in Canada, but I'm not a patent lawyer or anything. There is no such thing as freely redistributable code for RSA which can be used in North America without legal entanglements. You may wish to consider RSAREF, however, which *is* available from the FTP site rsa.com in /rsaref but probably doesn't meet your definition of "freely redistributable" (it's readily available in source, in C, and does RSA, MD5, etc. and comes with a license allowing noncommercial use. Like any other strong crypto software, it's not exportable legally. It can be modified with permission from RSADSI, which a number of people have received in the past.) For reasons that aren't entirely clear to me, RSA says that only U.S. people should take RSAREF from its server, although there aren't ITAR issues regarding Canada. The RIPEM distribution site (ripem.msu.edu) has RSAREF in its distribution, and is OK for Canadians. -- Marc VanHeyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu MIME & RIPEM accepted
Of course, I'd still recommend that Michael read _True and Reasonable_ by Douglas Jacoby. Joe Fisher
Absolutely not true! There are lots of them!
The following are available for $7.00 each (includes postage if in USA):
Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Right Violations in Azerbaijan #014 Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh +----------------------------------------------------------+ | | | I asked, "What's going on?" He says, "What's the matter, | | can't you see, they've overturned a car and they're | | killing Armenians!" | | | +----------------------------------------------------------+ DEPOSITION OF ZAVEN ARMENAKOVICH BADASIAN Born 1942 Employed Sumgait Bulk Yarn Plant Resident at Building 34, Apartment 33 Microdistrict No. 12 Sumgait [Azerbaijan] On February 27 my wife and I went to Baku to go shopping and returned to Sumgait at around five in the evening. We ran into one of my relatives at the bus station and got to talking. A lot of people had gathered not far away, near the store. Well at first we didn't know what was happening, and then a fellow I know comes up to me, an Azerbaijani guy, and says, "What are you standing here for? Go home immediately!" I asked, "What's going on?" He says, "What's the matter, can't you see, they've overturned a car and they're killing Armenians!" He helped me catch a cab and we got home safely. We sat at home for two days. During that time a gang of bandits came into our courtyard. But the neighbors wouldn't let them in the building. There were about 80 of them. They had sticks and pieces of armatures in their hands. They were shouting something, but you couldn't understand it. It wasn't one voice or two, all of them were shouting in a chorus. They turned toward Building 35. They went up to the third _floor, and we see that they're breaking glass and throwing things out the window. After a while they come out the entryway: one has a pair of jeans in his hands, another has a tape recorder, and a third a guitar. They went on toward the auto parts store. We had to save ourselves. After midnight on March 1 we went to hide at School No. 33, which is in Microdistrict 13. There were two other Armenian families there with us. There were 13 of us altogether. Out of all of them I had only known Ernest before, he had moved to Sumgait from Kirovabad. The Azerbaijani guard at the school let us in. At first he didn't want to, but there was nowhere else for us to go. We had to plead with him and talk him into it. We were told that on that day, the 1st, there would be an attack on our microdistrict. We went upstairs to a classroom on the second floor. On the city radio station they announced three telephone numbers that could be used to summon assistance or communicate anything important. I called one of them and the First Secretary of the Sumgait City Party Committee answered. I asked him for assistance. I say, "We're in School No. 33, we need to be evacuated." Well he says, "Got it, wait there, I'm sending out help now." I know his voice. The First Secretary had been to our plant, I had spoken with him personally. When I called he said, "Muslimzade here." About two hours after the call we heard shouts near the school. We looked out the window and about 100 to 120 people were outside saying, "Armenians, come out, we're here to get you." They have clubs, axes, and armature shafts in their hands. The guard sat there with us, and asked, "Where should I go?" I say, "If your life is of any value to you you'll go down there and say that the Armenians were here and that they left." That's what he did. He went down there and said, "The Armenians were here," he said, "I let them out the back door, they went that way." And pointed with his hand. And with shouts and noise the mob set off in the direction he had pointed. So the assistance we had been promised did come. They sent us help, all right! Instead of sending real soldiers he had sent his own. I am positive that Muslimzade did that. No one had seen us entering the school, no one knew that we were there. In any case, we stayed at the school until seven in the morning, and no soldiers of any sort came to our aid. In the morning we went to my relative's in Microdistrict 1, and the soldiers took us to the SK club from there. The club was jammed with people, and there were lots of people ahead of us--there was no space available. One small boy, about three months old, died right in my arms. There wasn't a single doctor, nothing. The boy was uninjured, there were no wounds or bruises on him. He was just very ill. They gave him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, they did everything they could under the circumstances, but were unable to save him. And his mother and father, a young Armenian couple, were right there, on the floor ... I searched for a spot for us in the SK, we have a small child of our own, I wanted to find a room or something to put my family in. I went up to the third floor, there were a lot of soldiers up there, bandaged, with canes, limping, with their heads broken open. They were a terrible sight. Young guys, all of them. There were a lot of bandaged Armenians, too. Everyone had been beaten, everyone was crying, wailing, and calling for help. I think that the City Party Committee ignored us completely. True, there was a snack bar: a sausage was 30 kopeks or 40 kopeks, a package of cookies that cost 26 kopeks was being sold for 50, a bottled soft drink cost a ruble . . . But there was no way to get the things any cheaper. I met my old uncle, Aram Mikhailovich, there. He saw me and tears welled up in his eyes. My whole life he had told me that we were friendly peoples, that we worked together, he always had Azerbaijanis over at his house. And now he saw me and there was nothing he could say, he just cried. You can understand his feelings, of course. April 8, 1988 Yerevan - - - reference - - - [1] _The Sumgait Tragedy; Pogroms against Armenians in Soviet Azerbaijan, Volume I, Eyewitness Accounts_, edited by Samuel Shahmuradian, forward by Yelena Bonner, 1990, published by Aristide D. Caratzas, NY, pages 185-186
Do you really have *that* much information on him? Really? I don't know. You tell me. What percentage of players reach or exceed their MLE's *in their rookie season*? We're talking about 1993, you know. If that were your purpose, maybe. Offerman spent 1992 getting acclimated, if you will. The Dodgers as a team paid a big price that season. Perhaps they will reap the benefits down the road. Do you really think they would have done what they did if they were competing for a pennant? For a stat-head, I'm amazed that you put any credence in spring training. Did you notice who he got those 10 (!) hits off of, or are you going to tell me that it doesn't make a difference? Wait a minute. I missed something here. First, forget Keith Mitchell. Are you saying that a kid who moves from AA to AAA and then does not improve would have been better off making a direct leap to the majors? If a player does well at AA and then does not improve at AAA, isn't that a sign that maybe he doesn't belong in the bigs? Now, Keith Mitchell. As I recall (no stat books handy - surprise!) he jumped from AA to Atlanta in 1991. He did so well that he was returned to the minors, where he didn't do very well at all. Now his career is in jeopardy. So how does he fit in with your point. Good MLE's in AA. Moved him right to the big club. Now he's one step away from being traded or moved out of baseball. Duh. Well, I've cast my lot. Certainly you may understand better how good Lopez is. And I may overvalue experience. But neither one of us runs a baseball team. -- The Beastmaster
I agree with you about the upgrade path; but I think I was fair. The original posting complained (1) about SGI coming out with newer (and better) architectures and not having an upgrade path from the older ones, and (2) that DEC did. On statement (1), I merely attempted to point out that all computer companies are constantly attempting to improve their product (& market position/share). In so doing, they eventually come to a point where they have a new architecture, and the only upgrade path is to replace the system. And the particular system he was complaining about was (in computer lifetimes) relatively old. On statement (2), I felt DEC's history of providing upgrades was not far superior than the industry "average", and that, in my opinion, SGI's history is better than DEC's. (And what is DEC doing with it's MIPS based DECstation line? Are they going to "abandon" it for their Alpha based line, or provide an upgrade path to R4400's and TFP's and R5's?)
In 1941, while the Jews were being assembled for their doom in the Nazi concentration camps, the Nazi Armenians in Germany formed the first Armenian battalion to fight alongside the Nazis. In 1943, this battalion had grown into eight battalions of 20,000-strong under the command of Dro (the butcher) who is the architect of the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million Turks and Kurds between 1914-1920. An Armenian National Council was formed by the notorious Dashnak Party leaders in Berlin, which was recognized by the Nazis. Encouraged by this, the Armenians summarily formed a provisional government that endorsed and espoused fully the principles of the Nazis and declared themselves as the members of the Aryan super race and full participants to Hitler's policy of extermination of the Jews. This Armenian-Nazi conspiracy against the Jews during WWII was an "encore" performance staged by the Armenians during WWI, when they back-stabbed and exterminated 2.5 million Turks by colluding with the invading Russian army. Source: "Adventures in the Near East, 1918-1922" by A. Rawlinson, Jonathan Cape, 30 Bedford Square, London, 1934 (First published 1923) (287 pages). (Memoirs of a British officer who witnessed the Armenian genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 184 (second paragraph) "I had received further very definite information of horrors that had been committed by the Armenian soldiery in Kars Plain, and as I had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their treatment of my own detached parties, I had wired to Tiflis from Zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the Armenians should not be left in independent command of the Moslem population, as, their troops being without discipline and not under effective control, atrocities were constantly being committed, for which we should with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'." Serdar Argic
[why do babies get diseases, etc.] Here's the (main) problem. The scenario you outline is reasonably consistent, but all the evidence that I am familiar with not only does not support it, but indicates something far different. The Earth, by latest estimates, is about 4.6 billion years old, and has had life for about 3.5 billion of those years. Humans have only been around for (at most) about 200,000 years. But, the fossil evidence inidcates that life has been changing and evolving, and, in fact, disease-ridden, long before there were people. (Yes, there are fossils that show signs of disease... mostly bone disorders, of course, but there are some.) Heck, not just fossil evidence, but what we've been able to glean from genetic study shows that disease has been around for a long, long time. If human sin was what brought about disease (at least, indirectly, though necessarily) then how could it exist before humans? [deletions] Uh... I know of many evolutionary biologists, who know more about biology than you claim to, who will strongly disagree with this. There is no evidence that the human genetic code (or any other) 'started off' in perfect condition. It seems to adapt to its envionment, in a collective sense. I'm really curious as to what you mean by 'the degeneration of the genetic code'. Umm. Nah, we seem to do a pretty good job of adapting to viruses and bacteria, and they to us. Only a very small percentage of microlife is harmful to humans... and that small percentage seems to be reasonalby constant in size, but the ranks keep changing. For example, bubonic plague used to be a really nasty disease, I'm sure you'll agree. But it still pops up from time to time, even today... and doesn't do as much damage. Part of that is because of better sanitation, but even when people get the disease, the symptoms tend to be less severe than in the past. This seems to be partly because people who were very susceptible died off long ago, and because the really nasty variants 'overgrazed', (forgive the poor terminology, I'm an engineer, not a doctor! :-> ) and died off for lack of nearby hosts. I could be wrong on this, but from what I gather acne is only a few hundred years old, and used to be nastier, though no killer. It seems to be getting less nasty w/age... Now, wait a minute. I have a question. Humans were created perfect, right? And, you admit that we have an inbuilt abiliy to fight off disease. It seems unlikely that Satan, who's making the diseases, would also gift humans with the means to fight them off. Simpler to make the diseases less lethal, if he wants survivors. As far as I can see, our immune systems, imperfect though they may (presently?) be, must have been built into us by God. I want to be clear on this: are you saying that God was planning ahead for the time when Satan would be in charge by building an immune system that was not, at the time of design, necessary? That is, God made our immune systems ahead of time, knowing that Adam and Eve would sin and their descendents would need to fight off diseases? Here's another puzzle. What, exactly, do you mean by 'perfect' in the phrase, 'created... perfect and without flaw'? To my mind, a 'perfect' system would be incapable of degrading over time. A 'perfect' system that will, without constant intervention, become imperfect is *not* a perfect system. At least, IMHO. Or is it that God did something like writing a masterpiece novel on a bunch of gum wrappers held together with Elmer's glue? That is, the original genetic 'instructions' were perfect, but were 'written' in inferior materials that had to be carefully tended or would fall apart? If so, why could God not have used better materials? Was God *incapable* of creating a system that could maintain itself, of did It just choose not to? [deletions] My main point, as I said, was that there really isn't any evidence for the explanation you give. (At least, that I'm aware of.) But, I couldn't help making a few nitpicks here and there. :-> Sincerely,
1) So what? 2) It will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers gather in Washington DC. After all if there are only 6million of us then this is an event unprecidented in history... Don't forget that 25% had 20 or more partners.... And what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those who said they where homosexual? Or is that number to inconvient for you.... Fuck off
Make that 20%. Where did I see that poll recently about the very religious and adultery? Was it this newsgroup or alt.atheism or some other place?
It's only test message.
I have just a couple of questions about this technique. First, what firing order should I use? Do I start with my pointer finger or my pinky? Left hand or right? And secondly, I have a 12cyl and there are two cylinders unaccounted for. Any suggestions?
Newsgroups: rec.autos,rec.autos.vw Subject: Re: Quick question Summary: Expires: Sender: Reply-To: ct22@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (Constantino Tobio) Followup-To: Distribution: Organization: Columbia University Keywords: Removing panels. Quick question. Why are you posting this to a VW newsgroup? Newsgroups: rec.autos,rec.autos.vw Subject: Re: Quick Question Summary: Distribution: world Organization: Columbia University Keywords: Newsgroups: rec.autos,rec.autos.vw Newsgroups: rec.autos,rec.autos.vw Subject: Re: Quick question Summary: Expires: References: <1993Apr5.211457.12789@ole.cdac.com> Sender: Reply-To: ct22@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (Constantino Tobio) Followup-To: Distribution: Organization: Columbia University Keywords: Removing panels.
Steve Dyer points out that Sharen was probably thinking of Sulfites. But the question still stands.
Messier was not invited due to his nagging injuries. While the press made an issue of it, and attempted to link it to the Rangers' internal political woes, Mike Keenan repeated that to Messier personally during the MSG press conference. It makes sense ... Messier would probably have not declined the invitation if it were made for publicity ... gld
I have the same question as Guido. It is possible to use the ESDI drive as a master and the IDE drive as the slave ? At the moment , I have been using the ESDI drive and recently I bought a IDE drive to use as the 2nd drive . The person in the computer shop told me that it is not possible to run 2 disk controller cards together on the same motherboard ( ESDI AND IDE ) but I think there might be some way of making them work. Can anybody enlighten me on this? And it is possible to run a ESDI HDD using a IDE controller? or vice versa? Can anybody please help me out on this? Your help will be very much appreciated. G.Chow
:>Top Ten Ways Slick Willie Could Improve His Standing With Americans :> :>10. Institute a national sales tax to pay for the socialization of :> America's health care resources. :> :>9. Declare war on Serbia. Reenact the draft. :> :>8. Stimulate the economy with massive income transfers to Democtratic :> constituencies. :> :>7. Appoint an unrepetent socialist like Mario Cuomo to the Suprmeme Court. :> :>6. Focus like a laser beam on gays in the military. :> :>5. Put Hillary in charge of the Ministry of Truth and move Stephanopoulos :> over to socialzed health care. :> :>4. Balance the budget through confiscatory taxation. :> :>3. Remind everyone, again, how despite the Democrats holding the :> Presidency, the majority of seats in the House, and in the Senate, :> the Republicans have still managed to block his tax-and-spend programs. :> :>2. Go back to England and get a refresher course in European Socialism. :> ***SNIP*** And the number one way Slick Willie could improve his standing with Americans... (Drum roll Anton) 1. Get himself an appointment with Dr. Kervorkian - and keep it! -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ** John Kerrigan a.k.a. jmkerrig@vela.acs.oakland.edu **
Did you ever notice how many people on the net have trouble in the comparitively easy task of spelling the nick name of our fair city? I never knew that Philadelphia becomes Phillie or Philli when spoken of. So for all you who don't know yet here's a _little_ clue. IT IS SPELLED: P H I L L Y OK...thank you. Oh yeah, about that drug-induced trade rumor....I don't think the Sniders are that stupid...the rumor you should be looking into is Mike Keenan coming back to coach the FLYERS. later Mike -- Mike Cornell | "There are a great many people in the country today who, mac18@po.cwru.edu| through no fault of their own, are sane." -Monty Python
^^ Funny you should mention it...this is exactly the case I was going to make. I will grant that a star like Mario will draw fans, even if the team sucks. But this is short term only; I still do not think the attendance increase will last, unless the team is a winning/competitive/improving/butt-kicking one. Pittsburgh was still getting better, so people continued to support them. If they suddenly dropped to, say, 50 points, you'd have knee surgery for some of the people jumping off the bandwagon. Ok. My numbers came from the NHL Guide and Record Book. You can give the credit to Mario since he deserves it. But my point is that it wasn't Mario himself, but it was the *expectation* of things to come (i.e. a winning team) that he created by being the next great hockey superstar. And before anybody jumps in and says I'm nit-picking and mincing words, go back and read from where this thread started... It might help to think about what would go through a fan's mind who suddenly found an interest in Mario and the Pens. Was it "gee, Mario Lemieux is amazing, I'll go watch him play", or was it "gee, now we've got a *kick* *ass* guy on *our* side, I'll go watch him play". I think it was the latter. I don't think this is accurate. The *tickets* sell, but people don't go to the games. I think this thread has already been discussed...season ticket holders in LA don't always use their tickets. So in effect, after the Kings initial success following Gretzky's arrival (68 to 91 points, same source) and corresponding attendance jump, there has been an effective drop in attendance even though ticket sales may not have changed much. Whether or not the Kings are a 'winner' is debatable. I claim that since Gretzky's arrival they have at the very least been competitive...I also claim that McNall has made a stupid move in trying to reassemble the Oiler dynasty...but that's another story and included only because I don't like McNall:-). Anyway, McNall did do some heavy marketing around Gretzky, and that undoubtedly was also responsible for the attendance and merchandising sales, etc. But as I said, when the Kings have been in there little tailspins over the past couple of years there have been empty seats at the Forum even if the tickets were sold. For the short term, IMO. Although I think that it's inevitable that the team will improve with a player such as Lemieux or Gretzky, simply because they make people around them better. Well, at least we are in full agreement here! So are you saying Roger has ever had a valid point? <couldn't resist...> Yes, but they are doing no worse than last year. I think the same type of reasoning I applied to a new Pittsburgh fan applies to all the extra people showing up at Winnipeg games. It's difficult to predict, but do you think that if the Jets miss the playoffs next season that in the year after they will maintain their attendance levels? I seriously doubt it, because in that case the expectation of an improving team would be gone, with or without Selanne.
it may be a little late to reply to your tirade and also on an inaapropriate board but along with all of the so called great things the white male has done they have also contributed to society by means of mass genocide, the theft of ideas and cultures, creating and the perptration of historical lies throughouttime among many other horrible activities. but every culture has its upside and its downside. it seems to me that the white male (must be extremely ignorant to qualify for the following - if you're not disregard) and western culture are the only things that look to actively classify things as good or bad, worthy or unworthy (ya dig) it can be seen with slavery and the manipulation and destruction of the american indians civilization. nothing but selfish acts that benefit one group of people (and not even their women get or got respected or regarded as equal - ain't that some stuff) white men - not being specific - but in a lot of cases are just wack or have wack conceptions of how the world is to serve their purpose. just look at david koresh - throughout history (i may be shortsighted on this one so excuse my predjudiced ignorance) only white men associate themselves withbeing GOD. no other culture is ignorant or arrogant enough to assume such a position. and then to manipulate and mislead all those people. hmmm... i'd say look in your history books but since it seems that history has been written to glorify the exploits of white men you'd only find lies. awww that's enough already from me because this has nothing to do with sex or this board. if ya'd like to continue this discussion e-mail me and we can compare and contrast ideas i like conflict - it's educational when the communcation is good...................... my $.02 worth (i apologize to those who thought this was going to be about SEX but i was prompted by a response i found up here)
Alan, don't forget, a HUGE cost for airliner developement is FAA certification. the joke is when the paperwork exceeds teh weight of the airplane, it will fly. The SR-71, and teh X-15 both highly ambitious aero-space projects were done on very narrow engineering budgets. Partly because they didn't spend much on paper pushing. There is some company in missouri trying to get funding to build light commercial transporters on a low cost basis, mostly by reducing FAA certification costs.
------------- cut here ----------------- University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona Suggested Reading Tan SL, Royston P, Campbell S, Jacobs HS, Betts J, Mason B, Edwards RG (1992). Cumulative conception and Livebirth rates after in-vitro fertilization. Lancet 339:1390-1394. For further information, call: Physicians' Resource Line 1-800-328-5868 in Tucson: 694-5868 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 28 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Articles :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: LOW LEVELS OF AIRBORNE PARTICLES LINKED TO SERIOUS ASTHMA ATTACKS American Lung Association A new study published by the American Lung Association has shown that surprisingly low concentrations of airborne particles can send people with asthma rushing to emergency rooms for treatment. The Seattle-based study showed that roughly one in eight emergency visits for asthma in that city was linked to exposure to particulate air pollution. The actual exposure levels recorded in the study were far below those deemed unsafe under federal air quality laws. "People with asthma have inflamed airways, and airborne particles tend to exacerbate that inflammation," said Joel Schwartz, Ph.D., of the Environmental Protection Agency, who was the lead author of the study. "When people are on the threshold of having, a serious asthma attack, particles can push them over the edge." The Seattle Study correlated 13 months of asthma emergency room visits with daily levels of PM,,,. or particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 10 microns or less. These finer particles are considered hazardous because they are small enough penetrate into the lung. Cities are considered out of compliance with clean air laws if the 24-hour average concentration of PM10 exceeds 150 micrograms per cubic millimeter of air. In Seattle however, a link between fine particles and asthma was found at levels as low as 30 micrograms. The authors concluded that for every 30 microgram increase in the four-day average of PM10, the odds of someone with asthma needing emergency treatment increased by 12 percent. The findings were published in the April American Review of Respiratory Disease, an official journal of the American Thoracic Society, the Lung Association's medical section. The study is the latest in a series of recent reports to suggest that particulate matter is a greatly under appreciated health threat. A 1992 study by Dr. Schwartz and Douglas Dockery, Ph.D., of Harvard found that particles may be causing roughly 60,000 premature deaths each year in the United States. Other studies have linked particulate matter to increased respiratory symptoms and bronchitis in children. "Government officials and the media are still very focused on ozone," says Dr. Schwartz. "But more and more research is showing that particles are bad actors as well." One problem in setting, standards for particulate air pollution is that PMIO is difficult to study. Unlike other regulated pollutants such as ozone and carbon monoxide, particulate matter is a complex and varying mixture of substances, including carbon, hydrocarbons, dust, and HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 29 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 acid aerosols. "Researchers can't Put people in exposure chambers to study the effects of particulate air pollution," says Dr. Schwartz. "We have no way of duplicating the typical urban mix of particles. " Consequently, most of what is known about particulates has been learned through population-based research like the Seattle study. Given that the EPA's current priority is to review the ozone and sulfur dioxide standards, the agency is unlikely to reexamine the PM10 standard any time soon. Until changes are made, there appears to be little people with asthma can do to protect themselves from airborne particles. "In some areas, you can get reports on air quality, but the reports only cover the pollutant that is closest to violating its standard, and that's rarely particulate matter," says Dr. Schwartz. "However, PM10 doesn't have to be near its violation range to be unhealthy." HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 30 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NIH Consensus Development Conference on Melanoma The National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Conference on Diagnosis and Treatment of Early Melanoma brought together experts in dermatology, pathology, epidemiology, public education, surveillance techniques, and potential new technologies as well as other health care professionals and the public to address (1) the clinical and histological characteristics of early melanoma; (2) the appropriate diagnosis, management, and followup of patients with early melanoma; (3) the role of dysplastic nevi and their significance; and (4) the role of education and screening in preventing melanoma morbidity and mortality. Following 2 days of presentations by experts and discussion by the audience, a consensus panel weighed the scientific evidence and prepared their consensus statement. Among their findings, the panel recommended that (1) melanoma in situ is a distinct entity effectively treated surgically with 0.5 centimeter margins; (2) thin invasive melanoma, less than 1 millimeter thick, has the potential for long-term survival in more than 90 percent of patients after surgical excision with a 1 centimeter margin; (3) elective lymph node dissections and extensive staging evaluations are not recommended in early melanoma; (4) patients with early melanoma are at low risk for relapse but may be at high risk for development of subsequent melanomas and should be followed closely; (5) some family members of patients with melanoma are at increased risk for melanoma and should be enrolled in surveillance programs; and (6) education and screening programs have the potential to decrease morbidity and mortality from melanoma. A copy of the full text of the consensus panel's statement is available by calling the NIH Office of Medical Applications of Research at (301) 496-1143 or by writing to: Office of Medical Applications of Research, National Institutes of Health, Federal Building, Room 618, Bethesda, MD 20892. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 31 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers The Cancer Centers Program is comprised of 55 NCI-designated Cancer Centers actively engaged in multidisciplinary research efforts to reduce cancer incidence, morbidity, and mortality. Within the program, there are four types of cancer centers: basic science cancer centers (14), which engage primarily in basic cancer research; clinical cancer centers (12), which focus on clinical research; "comprehensive" cancer centers (28), which emphasize a multidisciplinary approach to cancer research, patient care, and community outreach; and consortium cancer centers (1), which specialize in cancer prevention and control research. Although some cancer centers existed in the late 1960s and the 1970s, it was the National Cancer Act of 1971 that authorized the establishment of 15 new cancer centers, as well as continuing support for existing ones. The passage of the act also dramatically transformed the centers' structure and broadened the scope of their mission to include all aspects of basic, clinical, and cancer control research. Over the next two decades, the centers' program grew progressively. In 1990, there were 19 comprehensive cancer centers in the nation. Today, there are 28 of these institutions, all of which meet specific NCI criteria for comprehensive status. To attain recognition from the NCI as a comprehensive cancer center, an institution must pass rigorous peer review. Under guidelines newly established in 1990, the eight criteria for "comprehensiveness" include the requirement that a center have a strong core of basic laboratory research in several scientific fields, such as biology and molecular genetics, a strong program of clinical research, and an ability to transfer research findings into clinical practice. Moreover, five of the criteria for comprehensive status go significantly beyond that required for attaining a Cancer Center Support Grant (also referred to as a P30 or core grant), the mechanism of choice for supporting the infrastructure of a cancer center's operations. These criteria encompass strong participation in NCI-designated high-priority clinical trials, significant levels of cancer prevention and control research, and important outreach and educational activities--all of which are funded by a variety of sources. The other types of cancer centers also have special characteristics and capabilities for organizing new programs of research that can exploit important new findings or address timely research questions. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 32 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Of the 55 NCI-designated Cancer Centers, 14 are of the basic science type. These centers engage almost entirely in basic research, although some centers engage in collaborative research with outside clinical research investigators and in cooperative projects with industry to generate medical applications from new discoveries in the laboratory. Clinical cancer centers, in contrast, focus on both basic research and clinical research within the same institutional framework, and frequently incorporate nearby affiliated clinical research institutions into their overall research programs. There are 12 such centers today. Finally, consortium cancer centers, of which there is one, are uniquely structured and concentrate on clinical research and cancer prevention and control research. These centers interface with state and local public health departments for the purpose of achieving the transfer of effective prevention and control techniques from their research findings to those institutions responsible for implementing population-wide public health programs. Consortium centers also are heavily engaged in collaborations with institutions that conduct clinical trial research and coordinate community hospitals within a network of cooperating institutions in clinical trials. Together, the 55 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers continue to work toward creating new and innovative approaches to cancer research, and through interdisciplinary efforts, to effectively move this research from the laboratory into clinical trials and into clinical practice. Comprehensive Cancer Centers (Internet addresses are given where available) University of Alabama at Birmingham Comprehensive Cancer Center Basic Health Sciences Building, Room 108 1918 University Boulevard Birmingham, Alabama 35294 (205) 934-6612 University of Arizona Cancer Center 1501 North Campbell Avenue Tucson, Arizona 85724 (602) 626-6372 Internet: syd@azcc.arizona.edu Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center University of California at Los Angeles 200 Medical Plaza Los Angeles, California 90027 (213) 206-0278 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 33 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Internet: rick@jccc.medsch.ucla.edu Kenneth T. Norris Jr. Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Southern California 1441 Eastlake Avenue Los Angeles, California 90033-0804 (213) 226-2370 Yale University Comprehensive Cancer Center 333 Cedar Street New Haven, Connecticut 06510 (203) 785-6338 Lombardi Cancer Research Center Georgetown University Medical Center 3800 Reservoir Road, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007 (202) 687-2192 Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Miami Medical School 1475 Northwest 12th Avenue Miami, Florida 33136 (305) 548-4800 Internet: hlam@mednet.med.miami.edu Johns Hopkins Oncology Center 600 North Wolfe Street Baltimore, Maryland 21205 (410) 955-8638 Dana-Farber Cancer Institute 44 Binney Street Boston, Massachusetts 02115 (617) 732-3214 Internet: Kristie_Stevenson@macmailgw.dfci.harvard.edu Meyer L. Prentis Comprehensive Cancer Center of Metropolitan Detroit 110 East Warren Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48201 (313) 745-4329 Internet: cummings%oncvx1.dnet@rocdec.roc.wayne.edu University of Michigan Cancer Center HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 34 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 101 Simpson Drive Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-0752 (313) 936-9583 BITNET: kallie.bila.michels@um.cc.umich.edu Mayo Comprehensive Cancer Center 200 First Street Southwest Rochester, Minnesota 55905 (507) 284-3413 Norris Cotton Cancer Center Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center One Medical Center Drive Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756 (603) 646-5505 BITNET: edward.bresnick@dartmouth.edu Roswell Park Cancer Institute Elm and Carlton Streets Buffalo, New York 14263 (716) 845-4400 Columbia University Comprehensive Cancer Center College of Physicians and Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, New York 10032 (212) 305-6905 Internet: janie@cuccfa.ccc.columbia.edu Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center 1275 York Avenue New York, New York 10021 (800) 525-2225 Kaplan Cancer Center New York University Medical Center 462 First Avenue New York, New York 10016-9103 (212) 263-6485 UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center University of North Carolina School of Medicine Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599 (919) 966-4431 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 35 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center P.O. Box 3814 Durham, North Carolina 27710 (919) 286-5515 Cancer Center of Wake Forest University at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine 300 South Hawthorne Road Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27103 (919) 748-4354 Internet: ccwfumail@phs.bgsm.wfu.edu Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center 300 West 10th Avenue Columbus, Ohio 43210 (614) 293-5485 Internet: dyoung@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu Fox Chase Cancer Center 7701 Burholme Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111 (215) 728-2570 Internet: s_davis@fccc.edu University of Pennsylvania Cancer Center 3400 Spruce Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104 (215) 662-6364 Pittsburgh Cancer Institute 200 Meyran Avenue Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213-2592 (800) 537-4063 The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center 1515 Holcombe Boulevard Houston, Texas 77030 (713) 792-3245 Vermont Cancer Center University of Vermont 1 South Prospect Street Burlington, Vermont 05401 (802) 656-4580 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 36 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center 1124 Columbia Street Seattle, Washington 98104 (206) 667-4675 Internet: sedmonds@cclink.fhcrc.org University of Wisconsin Comprehensive Cancer Center 600 Highland Avenue Madison, Wisconsin 53792 (608) 263-8600 BITNET: carbone@uwccc.biostat.wisc.edu Clinical Cancer Centers University of California at San Diego Cancer Center 225 Dickinson Street San Diego, California 92103 (619) 543-6178 Internet: dedavis@ucsd.edu City of Hope National Medical Center Beckman Research Institute 1500 East Duarte Road Duarte, California 91010 (818) 359-8111 ext. 2292 University of Colorado Cancer Center 4200 East 9th Avenue, Box B188 Denver, Colorado 80262 (303) 270-7235 University of Chicago Cancer Research Center 5841 South Maryland Avenue, Box 444 Chicago, Illinois 60637 (312) 702-6180 Internet: judith@delphi.bsd.uchicago.edu Albert Einstein College of Medicine 1300 Morris Park Avenue Bronx, New York 10461 (212) 920-4826 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 37 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 University of Rochester Cancer Center 601 Elmwood Avenue, Box 704 Rochester, New York 14642 (716) 275-4911 Internet: rickb@wotan.medicine.rochester.edu Ireland Cancer Center Case Western Reserve University University Hospitals of Cleveland 2074 Abington Road Cleveland, Ohio 44106 (216) 844-5432 Roger Williams Cancer Center Brown University 825 Chalkstone Avenue Providence, Rhode Island 02908 (401) 456-2071 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital 332 North Lauderdale Street Memphis, Tennessee 38101-0318 (901) 522-0306 Internet: meyer@mbcf.stjude.org Institute for Cancer Research and Care 4450 Medical Drive San Antonio, Texas 78229 (512) 616-5580 Utah Regional Cancer Center University of Utah Health Sciences Center 50 North Medical Drive, Room 2C110 Salt Lake City, Utah 84132 (801) 581-4048 BITNET: hogan@cc.utah.edu Massey Cancer Center Medical College of Virginia Virginia Commonwealth University 1200 East Broad Street Richmond, Virginia 23298 (804) 786-9641 Consortia HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 38 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Drew-Meharry-Morehouse Consortium Cancer Center 1005 D.B. Todd Boulevard Nashville, Tennessee 37208 (615) 327-6927 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 39 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: General Announcments :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: THE UCI MEDICAL EDUCATION SOFTWARE REPOSITORY This is to announce the establishment of an FTP site at the University of California, for the collection of shareware, public-domain software and other information relating to Medical Education. Specifically, we are interested in establishing this site as a clearinghouse for personally developed software that has been developed for local medical education programs. We welcome all contributions that may be shared with other users. To connect to the UCI Medical Education Software Repository, ftp to: FTP.UCI.EDU The Repository currently offers both MSDOS and Macintosh software, and we hope to support other operating systems (UNIX, MUMPS, AMIGA?). Uploads are welcome. We actively solicit information and software which you have personaly developed or have found useful in your local medical education efforts, either as an instructor or student. Once you have connected to the site via FTP, cd (change directory) to either the med-ed/mac/incoming or the med-ed/msdos/incoming directories, change the mode to binary and "send" or "put" your files. Note that you won't be able to see the files with the "ls" or "dir" commands. Please compress your files as appropriate to the operating system (ZIP for MSDOS; Compactor or something similar for Macintosh) to save disk space. After uploading, please send email to Steve Clancy (slclancy@uci.edu) (for MSDOS) or Albert Saisho (saisho@uci.edu) (for MAC) describing the file(s) you have uploaded and any other information we might need to describe it. Note that we can only accept software or information that has been designated as shareware, public-domain or that may otherwise be distributed freely. Please do not upload commercial software! Doing so may jeopardize the existence of this FTP site. If you wish to upload software for other operating systems, please contact either Steve Clancy, M.L.S. or Albert Saisho, M.D. at the addresses above. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 40 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS News Summaries :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS Daily Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National AIDS Clearinghouse makes available the following information as a public service only. Providing this information does not constitute endorsement by the CDC, the CDC Clearinghouse, or any other organization. Reproduction of this text is encouraged; however, copies may not be sold. Copyright 1993, Information, Inc., Bethesda, MD ================================================================== April 12, 1993 ================================================================== "NIH Set to Test Multiple AIDS Vaccines" Reuters (04/08/93) (Frank, Jacqueline) Washington--The Clinton administration will permit the National Institutes of Health to test multiple AIDS vaccines instead of only allowing the Army to test a single vaccine, administration sources said Thursday. The decision ends the controversy between Army AIDS researchers who had hoped to test a vaccine made by MicroGeneSys Inc. and the National Institutes of Health, which contended that multiple vaccines should be tested. Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said a final announcement on the therapeutic vaccine trials was expected to be made last Friday. Companies including Genentech Inc., Chiron Corp., and Immuno AG have already told NIH that they are prepared to participate in the vaccine tests. The testing is intended to demonstrate whether AIDS vaccines are effective in thwarting the replication of HIV in patients already infected. Shalala refuted last week's reports that the Clinton administration had decided the Army's test of the MicroGeneSys VaxSyn should proceed without tests of others at the same time. "The report was inaccurate, and I expect there to be some announcement in the next 24 hours about that particular AIDS research project," said Shalala. Administration sources subsequently confirmed that NIH director Dr. Bernadine Healy and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler had convinced the White House that multiple vaccines should be tested simultaneously. But MicroGeneSys president Frank Volvovitz said a test of multiple vaccines could triple the cost of the trial and delay it by two years. ================================================================== HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 41 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 "The Limits of AZT's Impact on HIV" U.S. News & World Report (04/12/93) Vol. 114, No. 14, P. 18 AZT has become the most widely used drug to fight AIDS since it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1987. Burroughs Wellcome, the manufacturer of AZT, made $338 million last year alone from sales of the drug. However, a team of European researchers recently reported that although HIV-positive patients taking AZT demonstrated a slightly lower risk of developing AIDS within the first year of treatment, that benefit disappeared two years later. The Lancet published preliminary findings of the three-year study, which could give more reason for critics to argue the drug's cost, side effects, and general efficacy. Even though U.S. researchers concede the study was more comprehensive than American trials, many argue the European researchers' suggestion that HIV-positive patients experience little improvement in their illness before the development of AIDS symptoms. In addition, researchers have long been familiar with the --------- end of part 3 ------------
Is there any difference in saying "Absolute Truth exists, but some people think its a lie" and "Truth is relative" ? I think there is: in both examples, the first statement is a fundamental disagreement between at least two people; the second statement is agreed upon by all. To put it another way, someone who says objective values exist does not agree that values are subjective.
Preface: I am a novice user at best to the Windows environment. I am trying to execute a MS C++ 7.0 executable program which accesses a Btrieve database to build an ASCII file. When I execute it under windows the screen goes blank and my PC locks up. The only way for me to return is to reset the machine. Does anyone have any insight on what I may have to do in order for the program to correctly under windows? (By the way it runs fine in DOS 5.0) System: Gateway 486/DX250 ATI Graphics Ultra Card 640x480 Any help would be greatly appreciated.
TRIAD, the first drag-free satellite, was designed and built by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory and launched 2 Sept 1972. The satellite was in three sections separated by two booms. The central section housed the DISCOS Disturbance Compensation System, which consisted of a proof mass of special non-magnetic alloy housed within a spherical cavity. The proof mass flew a true gravitational orbit, free from drag and radiation pressure. Teflon microthrusters kept the body of the satellite centered around the proof mass, thereby flying the entire satellite drag free. TRIAD was one of the APL-designed Navy Navigation Satellites. The 2nd-generation operational navigation satellites flying today (NOVA) use a single-axis version of DISCOS. TRIAD was also the sixth APL satellite to be powered by an RTG (APL flew the first nuclear power supply in space, in 1961). Further info on TRIAD, DISCOS, etc. can be found in "Spacecraft Design Innovations in the APL Space Department," Johns Hopkins APL Technical Digest, Vol. 13, No. 1 (1992).
Oddly, enough, The smithsonian calls the lindbergh years the golden age of flight. I would call it the granite years, reflecting the primitive nature of it. It was romantic, swashbuckling daredevils, "those daring young men in their flying machines". But in reality, it sucked. Death was a highly likely occurence, and the environment blew. Ever see the early navy pressure suits, they were modified diving suits. You were ready to star in "plan 9 from outer space". Radios and Nav AIds were a joke, and engines ran on castor oil. They picked and called aviators "men with iron stomachs", and it wasn't due to vertigo. Oddly enough, now we are in the golden age of flight. I can hop the shuttle to NY for $90 bucks, now that's golden. Mercury gemini, and apollo were romantic, but let's be honest. Peeing in bags, having plastic bags glued to your butt everytime you needed a bowel movement. Living for days inside a VW Bug. Romantic, but not commercial. The DC-X points out a most likely new golden age. An age where fat cigar smoking business men in loud polyester space suits will fill the skys with strip malls and used space ship lots. hhhmmmmm, maybe i'll retract that golden age bit. Maybe it was better in the old days. Of course, then we'll have wally schirra telling his great grand children, "In my day, we walked on the moon. Every day. Miles. no buses. you kids got it soft".
... Sounds just like a racial theory that Hitler outlined in Mein Kampf. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Disclaimer: Opinions expressed are mine, not my employer's.
And I recommend the movie _The Thin Blue Line_, which is about the same case. Not as much legal detail, but still an excellent film. It shows how very easy it is to come up with seemingly conclusive evidence against someone whom you think is guilty.
Hi, I have a Humminbird HDR200 Depth Sounder for sale. It has been used for 1 season on my sailboat. All parts are included as well as the installation instructions. It is even packed in the original box it came in. There is no damage to the unit or the transducer. In fact, the transducer was mounted *inside* the hull in a piece of pipe glued to the hull. So it led a "sheltered" life. The transducer can be mounted either inside the hull as I did, or on the transom. It cannot be placed in a hole drilled into your hull. It is fully waterproof and fits into a 2" hole in a bulkhead (that's where I had it installed) or into a standard dashboard on a powerboat. It reads depth to 199' and has a backlit LCD display. It has an adjustable shallow water alarm built in. I am changing out my instruments to another manufacturer that outputs the NMEA 0183 information. This little depth sounder works fine and is very stable. It is usually priced as low as 130$ in some catalogs, I paid 150$. The first 80$ takes it, or best offer. John R. Miller
However, don't forget that the police in Chicago can carry just about anything they want except for the Glock, which is not approved for carry (Guess they figure all cops are like the Police Chief of Winnetka, who happened to let off a stray round of 9mm. This is the same anti-gun police chief that wanted full-auto Uzis for his patrol cars...). Perhaps in the judgement of the majority of Chicago's finest, a close-to- 100% reliable weapon like a revolver is preferable to a 99.99% reliable automatic. I note that in Germany, where certainly the 9mm semi-auto handgun is king, some of the more elite police types want revolvers. I don't think the issue is cost, because Chicago police certainly make on the order of at least $40K/year. Your presumption of "disadvantage" I think is not borne out by the experiences of New York City's cops; there the cops usually come out on top with their standard .38 Spl revolvers. I've seen S&Ws, Rugers and Beretta 9mms in addition to the revolvers carried by Chicago cops.... in the past, I've seen .45 M1911s; others have seen Browning Hi-Powers...
Since someone brought up sports radio, howabout sportswriting??? (Anyone give an opinion) Which city do you think has the best sports coverage in terms of print media? (these are general questions) Is the Washington Post better than the Philadelphia Inquier or the NY Times? Howabout the Philadelphia Daily News compared to the New York Daily News?
Ethnocentric USian that I am, I've assumed that we and the xUSSR were the only countries with significant capabilities to track non-cooperative objects in low Earth orbit. Grazing in a couple of databases recently, I found that Japan has some optical capabilities along this line, and also uses a radar designed for other purposes for orbital debris surveys (it isn't clear whether the radar can determine orbital elements for the objects it detects). Abstracts of the articles are appended. This leads to the more general question: do yet other people than the US, Russia, and Japan do space surveillance, and if so, how and why? Allen Thomson SAIC McLean, VA, USA ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ABSTRACTS Optical tracking of the experimental geodetic satellite (EGS) TAKABE, MASAO; ITABE, TOSHIKAZU; ARUGA, TADASHI Radio Research Laboratory, Review (ISSN 0033-801X), vol. 34, March 1988, p. 23-34. In Japanese, with abstract in English. This paper reports the optical tracking results of EGS (experimental geodetic satellite) which was launched on August 13, 1986, by NASDA. The EGS optical tracking experiment process and an outline of the Radio Research Laboratory (RRL) optical ground <---- station are discussed. A star tracking technique for optical equipment calibration and satellite tracking technique for orbit prediction improvement are also described. The accuracy of EGS tracking data obtained by RRL at the request of NASDA is also discussed. In addition, it is briefly demonstrated that the position of the Japanese amateur satellite (JAS-1) which was launched with the EGS, was accurately determined by means of a <---- satellite tracking video. It is clear from this experiment that <---- optical observation data (i.e., satellite direction data) are very <---- useful for satellite orbit determination during initial launch <---- stages. Furthermore, the results confirm the effectivenes of these <---- two satellite optical tracking techniques. <---- MU radar measurements of orbital debris SATO, TORU; KAYAMA, HIDETOSHI; FURUSAWA, AKIRA; KIMURA, IWANE (Kyoto University, Japan) AIAA, NASA, and DOD, Orbital Debris Conference: Technical Issues and Future Directions, Baltimore, MD, Apr. 16-19, 1990. 10 p. RPN: AIAA PAPER 90-1343 Distributions of orbital debris versus height and scattering cross section are determined from a series of observations made with a high- power VHF Doppler radar (MU radar) of Japan. An automated data processing algorithm has been developed to discriminate echoes of orbiting objects from those of undesired signals such as meteor trail echoes or lightning atmospherics. Although the results are preliminary, they showed good agreement with those from NORAD tracking radar <---- observations using a much higher frequency. It is found that the <---- collision frequency of a Space Station of 1 km x 1 km size at an altitude of 500 km with orbiting debris is expected to be as high as once per two years. Monitoring of the MU radar antenna pattern by Satellite Ohzora (EXOS-C) SATO, T.; INOOKA, Y.; FUKAO, S. (Kyoto Univ., Japan); KATO, S. Kyoto Univ., Uji (Japan). Radio Atmospheric Science Center. In International Council of Scientific Unions, Middle Atmosphere Program. Handbook for MAP, Vol. 20 5 p Publication Date: Jun. 1986 As the first attempt among MST (mesosphere stratosphere troposphere) type radars, the MU (middle and upper atmosphere) radar features an active phased array system. Unlike the conventional large VHF radars, in which output power of a large vacuum tube is distributed to individual antenna elements, each of 475 solid state power amplifier feeds each antenna element. This system configuration enables very fast beam steering as well as various flexible operations by dividing the antenna into independent subarrays, because phase shift and signal division/combination are performed at a low signal level using electronic devices under control of a computer network. The antenna beam can be switched within 10 microsec to any direction within the zenith angle of 30 deg. Since a precise phase alignment of each element is crucial to realize the excellent performance of this system, careful calibration of the output phase of each power amplifier and antenna element was carried out. Among various aircraft which may be used for this purpose artificial satellites have an advantage of being able to make a long term monitoring with the same system. An antenna pattern monitoring system for the MU radar was developed using the scientific satellite OHZORA (EXOS-C). A receiver named MUM (MU radar antenna Monitor) on board the satellite measures a CW signal of 100 to 400 watts transmitted from the MU radar. The principle of the measurement and results are discussed.
Try xviewgl. (filename xviewgl_v1.1.tar.Z on lots of bases) - Ove
Agreed. Agreed. Agreed. And this demonstrates, I assume, that you're a liberal. :-).
>the design and propoganda stages that she doesn't care any more?
If the attack was justified or not is at least debatable. But this is not the issue. The issue is that you were cheering DEATH. Read again your original article. You find Israeli government responsible for those dead soldiers, that's a reasonable (debatable) point, but feel satisfaction from dead bodies is NOT REASONABLE by any standards. No matter how you try to justify it. I may understand your frustration against israeli occupation in S Lebanon. But no matter what you say, I can not understand your satisfaction for dead bodies. I have a question for you. Let's assume a bosnian village, inhabited by serbs untill a few (10-20) years ago, and later taken over by bosnian muslims (the means are not very peaceful). Now, do you enjoy serbs coming and killing all (armed) bosnian muslims ? I would not enjoy, but I would not enjoy ANY dead bodies - israelis, lebanese or bosnians.
If you look through this newsgroup, you should be able to find Clinton's proposed "Wiretapping" Initiative for our computer networks and telephone systems. This 'initiative" has been up before Congress for at least the past 6 months, in the guise of the "FBI Wiretapping" bill. I strongly urge you to begin considering your future. I strongly urge you to get your application for a passport in the mail soon.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ When are we going to hear a Christian answer to this question? In paraphrase:
-*---- The two commandments *are* rules; they are merely rules that are so vague that they are practically devoid of meaning. Michael Siemon acknowledges this every time he writes that the resolution of an argument over them turns on secular and cultural assumptions that are independent of these rules. The commandment to love your neighbor as yourself can be viewed, in part, as reminding man that he is not God and cannot act as if he has "ultimate responsibility." Indeed, many traditions present an interpretation where believers are supposed to interpret loving one's neighbor as following various other rules, and relying on their god to make things come out right, precisely because it would be wrong for man to assume such "ultimate responsibility." Once again, we are confronted with good sounding goo that means whatever the reader wants it to mean. And who is to say that this interpretation is "twisted"? There are many passages in the Bible that in their most straightforward reading show the Christian god behaving in just this way. Michael cannot refer to "base" claims or base commandments to show that such readings are "twisted," because this divergence in understanding occurs even in trying to interpret the "base" claims and commandments. In addressing conservative Christians, Michael will necessarily draw upon secular and cultural notions that these conservative Christians will reject. But these base commandments are too vague to serve as "a principle for the CRITIQUE of ethical systems." The meaning of these base commandments for any believer derives from the secular and cultural notions that the believer brings to them, from how the believer mixes their demands with straightforward readings of other Biblical passages, from a particular sectarian tradition, or from some combination of these things. These commandments lack sufficient substance in themself to serve as a basis for criticizing ethical systems. What meaning they have comes from the ethical system the believer brings to these commandments. Jesus explicitly states that this summarizes Jewish law, which would seem to bring in all of it if we properly understand what it means to love God and love our neighbors. There are *many* parables and teachings the gospels attribute to Jesus that are straightforwardly read as ethical commandments. The Pauline epistles are similarly full. If it is not clear that these all come together in a sensible understanding of ethical behavior, the problem is *not* a lack of raw material. -*---- No, Michael, the conservative Christians also take the gospel seriously. What differentiates you is the way you interpret the gospel. In a sense, the wide variety of interpretations does tell us something about Christianity. It tells us that the New Testament authors left a sufficiently vague hodge-podge that it can serve as the source text for many, vastly different beliefs about the nature of the Christian god and about what men should and shouldn't do. The irony here is that there is *nothing* in Christianity per se that Michael can use to support the cause of lesbians and gays. *Every* Christian principle he turns to this cause is effective only through the extra-Christian principles through which Michael interprets his religion, and the homophobes apply the *same* Christian principles, with equal justification, to their cause. In short, it is the extra-Christian principles that make Michael's Christianity beneficial, and I suspect they would be as beneficial, perhaps moreso, without being filtered by Christian interpretation. Michael paints a picture of "standard American atheism" as the rejection of the evil in many conservative Christian interpretations of the Bible. But I think it is even more damaging to Christianity to note that the New Testament presents such a vague hodge-podge of notions about the nature of God and the nature of the good (except, of course, when it is ordered by an interpretation that relies on extraneous principles). Here, I think we should apply a Christian parable, where a cold drink can have its value and a hot drink can have its value, but the lukewarm we should spit out.
There Indeed. I spend about 60% of my time dealing with quality stuff. It is a hot number. Two journals worth looking at are:- Quality Review Bulletin. Pub:Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, one Renaissance boulevard, Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181 Quality in Health Care. BMJ Publishing Group, Box No. 560B, Kennebunkport, ME 04046
Anybody know of an IGES Viewer for DOS/Windows? I need to be able to display ComputerVision IGES files on a PC running Windows 3.1. Thanks in advance.
Again, Mr. Frank has come to the rescue with his cool headed reason. How about, "One charge per victim?" Of course I'll think about it in a few days and find a case where this doesn't apply either. What the heck, I don't study law, I just hate lawyers. :)
AHA! He admits it! He IS a moral relativist! Keith, if you start wafffling on about how it is different for a human to maul someone thrown into it's cage (so to speak), you'd better start posting tome decent evidence or retract your 'I think there is an absolute morality' blurb a few weeks ago. The Desert Brat
Maybe I'm just a child of the 80's, but I really liked the Marlins' uniforms. The helmets shine nicely in the sun. It's enough to make me a fan.
... an amazing illustration of disconnection from reality. Glad to see that you agree that the current Government is reticent about admitting the sovereignty of the people! Speaking from personal experience, I have had judges illegally assume jurisdiction even after I demanded that the DA prove such jurisdiction on the record, and the DA stood mute. I have also had an appellate court uphold such action and hide behind California Rules of Court, Rule 106 ("The judges of the appellate department shall not be required to write opinions in any cases decided by them, but may do so whenever they deem it advisable or in the public interest."). That is reality, I agree.
I don't doubt that this will be the attitude of many corporate leaders. It's understandable--most corporate execs don't know much about cryptology, and it's easy to get taken in by someone peddling snake oil. And, the proposed scheme *is* a major improvement in telephone security to what exists now. The problem is that, with any security scheme of this kind, you have to concern yourself with the weakest link in the chain. I suspect that NSA has put a fairly strong encryption algorithm in this wiretap chip of theirs, probably at least as strong as (say) DES in OFB-mode. Unfortunately, the existence of the key-registry system seems to make possible all kinds of possible attacks at a small fraction of the expense of trying to build (say) a DES keysearch machine. As originally described, it sounded like any police / court combination could acquire the key for a given chip. I hope that's not the case, since it would imply a glaring hole. (How much does it cost to find *one* crooked jodge and *one* crooked cop? Especially for a foreign intelligence agency or organized crime boss?) However, even if more intelligent schemes are used to allow access to the unencrypted phone conversations, there will be weak- nesses. They may be very expensive, and very difficult. But who would trust his/her confidential information to an encryption scheme that, for (say) $100,000 could by cracked one time in a hundred? (DES, for all the complaints about a 56-bit key, would probably cost several million dollars to build a keysearch machine for.) How many million dollars would the confidential phone messages of the GM headquarters be worth to Nissan, Chrysler, or Audi? How about home phones of major execs and important engineers and designers? "Gee, Mr Jones, I understand you've had some financial problems lately. Maybe I can help..." Indeed, if NSA really designed the algorithm to be secure, it's very likely as secure as IDEA or 2-key DES. However, the system as a whole isn't resistant to "practical cryptanalysis." In _The Puzzle Palace_, Bamford describes how several NSA employees were turned by foreign (presumably KGB) agents, despite security measures that I doubt any Big 8 accounting firm could match. And NSA confidential data was *not* subject to being requested by thousands of police organizations and courts across the land.
[much deleted] amazing. I could not find _one_ reference to waffle in all of this. followups redirected out.
Shure it is temperature dependent, but this does not clean all your problems. Based on some exp. I must say that the connections between the power supply and the Monitor and Main Board are usable to this failure, Ram simms can be badly connected due to some corrosion and the powersupply can be in the last phase (lower Voltage). So you can do following if you are used to such technical terms. 1) Clean all mentioned contacts with contact spray 2) readjust the 5 Volt level of your powersupply 3) use a calm fan and think of preventing dust blowinÔ through the floppy! (a fixed piece of paper can prevent this) if you don't know how to do it beg a friendly technician! Christian Bauer
Hehehe. BTW, does the Litani River not flow West and not South? I think that its waters stay entirely within Lebanese territory and so what Hasan says about the Jordan River makes no sense, in any case. The Hasbani River, on the other hand, flows into the Jordan, if I am not mistaken.
Help! I'm trying to program my VGA! I've got it working with in pascal with the following routines for mode $13h (320*200*256). I've got a VESA compatable Trident 8900C w/1meg and need to program in 1024*768 mode. I don't care how many colors. Could someone take this code and help me write 2 new procedures to replace them so that it'll work in 1024*768*16 or 1024*768*256? That'd be GREAT! Thanks... Here is the code I currently have for 320*200*256 mode: Procedure GraphMode; Begin { VideoMode } Asm Mov AH,00 Mov AL,13h Int 10h End; End; { VideoMode } Procedure PlotPoint (x, y, c : Integer); Begin Mem[$A000:x+y*320]:=c; End; --
Well, that's the question, isn't it? The goals are probably not all that obvious. We can set up a few goals, like happiness and liberty and the golden rule, etc. But these goals aren't inherent. They have to be defined before an objective system is possible. It is not too difficult, one you have goals in mind, and absolute knoweldge of everyone's intent, etc. Omniscience is fine, as long as information is not given away. Isn't this the resolution of the free will problem? An interactive omniscient being changes the situation. Well, I was speaking about an objective system in general. I didn't mention a specific goal, which would be necessary to determine the morality of an action.
His _heart_? This jerk doesn't have a heart, and it beats me why you're apologizing for him. In my book, behavior like this is unprofessional, inexcusable, and beyond the pale. If he's overworked, it's because he's too busy raking in the bucks. More likely, he just likes to push women around. I'd fire the s.o.b., and get myself another doctor.
Does anybody know if there are any good 2d-graphics packages available for IBM RS/6000 & AIX ? I'm looking for something like DEC's GKS or Hewlett-Packards Starbase, both of which have reasonably good support for different output devices like plotters, terminals, X etc. I have tried also xgks from X11 distribution and IBM's implementation of Phigs. Both of them work but we require more output devices than just X-windows. Our salesman at IBM was not very familiar with graphics and I am not expecting for any good solutions from there. Ari ---
: I : |> Jim, : |> : |> I always thought that homophobe was only a word used at Act UP : |> rallies, I didn't beleive real people used it. Let's see if we agree : |> on the term's definition. A homophobe is one who actively and : |> militantly attacks homosexuals because he is actually a latent : |> homosexual who uses his hostility to conceal his true orientation. : |> Since everyone who disapproves of or condemns homosexuality is a : |> homophobe (your implication is clear), it must necessarily follow that : |> all men are latent homosexuals or bisexual at the very least. : |> : : Crap crap crap crap crap. A definition of any type of 'phobe comes from : phobia = an irrational fear of. Hence a homophobe (not only in ACT UP meetings, : the word is apparently in general use now. Or perhaps it isn't in the bible? : Wouldst thou prefer if I were to communicate with thou in bilespeak?) : : Does an arachnophobe have an irrational fear of being a spider? Does an : agoraphobe have an irrational fear of being a wide open space? Do you : understand English? : : Obviously someone who has phobia will react to it. They will do their best : to avoid it and if that is not possible they will either strike out or : run away. Or do gaybashings occur because of natural processes? People : who definately have homophobia will either run away from gay people or : cause them (or themselves) violence. : Isn't that what I said ... What are you taking issue with here, your remarks are merely parenthetical to mine and add nothing useful. : [...] : : |> It would seem odd if homosexuality had any evolutionary function : |> (other than limiting population growth) since evolution only occurs : |> when the members of one generation pass along their traits to : |> subsequent generations. Homosexuality is an evolutionary deadend. If I : |> take your usage of the term, homophobe, in the sense you seem to : |> intend, then all men are really homosexual and evolution of our : |> species at least, is going nowhere. : |> : : So *every* time a man has sex with a woman they intend to produce children? : Hmm...no wonder the world is overpopulated. Obviously you keep to the : Monty Python song: "Every sperm is sacred". And if, as *you* say, it has : a purpose as a means to limit population growth then it is, by your own : arguement, natural. Consider the context, I'm talking about an evolutionary function. One of the most basic requirements of evolution is that members of a species procreate, those who don't have no purpose in that context. : : |> Another point is that if the offspring of each generation is to : |> survive, the participation of both parents is necessary - a family must : |> exist, since homosexuals do not reproduce, they cannot constitute a : |> family. Since the majority of humankind is part of a family, : |> homosexuality is an evolutionary abberation, contrary to nature if you : |> will. : |> : : Well if that is true, by your own arguements homosexuals would have : vanished *years* ago due to non-procreation. Also the parent from single : parent families should put the babies out in the cold now, cos they must, : by your arguement, die. By your argument, homosexuality is genetically determined. As to your second point, you prove again that you have no idea what context means. I am talking about evolution, the preservation of the species, the fundamental premise of the whole process. : : |> But it gets worse. Since the overwhelming majority of people actually : |> -prefer- a heterosexual relationship, homosexuality is a social : |> abberation as well. The homosexual eschews the biological imperative : |> to reproduce and then the social imperative to form and participate in : |> the most fundamental social element, the family. But wait, there's : |> more. : |> : : Read the above. I expect you to have at least ten children by now, with : the family growing. These days sex is less to do with procreation (admittedly : without it there would be no-one) but more to do with pleasure. In pre-pill : and pre-condom days, if you had sex there was the chance of producing children. : These days is just ain't true! People can decide whether or not to have : children and when. Soon they will be able to choose it's sex &c (but that's : another arguement...) so it's more of a "lifestyle" decision. Again by : your arguement, since homosexuals can not (or choose not) to reproduce they must : be akin to people who decide to have sex but not children. Both are : as "unnatural" as each other. Yet another non-sequitur. Sex is an evolutionary function that exists for procreation, that it is also recreation is incidental. That homosexuals don't procreate means that sex is -only- recreation and nothing more; they serve no -evolutionary- purpose. : : |> Since homosexuals have come out the closet and have convinced some : |> policy makers that they have civil rights, they are now claiming that : |> their sexuality is a preference, a life-style, an orientation, a : |> choice that should be protected by law. Now if homosexuality is a mere : |> choice and if it is both contrary to nature and anti-social, then it : |> is a perverse choice; they have even less credibility than before they : |> became prominent. : |> : : People are people are people. Who are you to tell anyone else how to live : their life? Are you god(tm)? If so, fancy a date? Here's pretty obvious dodge, do you really think you've said anything or do you just feel obligated to respond to every statement? I am not telling anyone anything, I am demonstrating that there are arguments against the practice of homosexuality (providing it's a merely an alternate lifestlye) that are not homophobic, that one can reasonably call it perverse in a context even a atheist can understand. I realize of course that this comes dangerously close to establishing a value, and that atheists are compelled to object on that basis, but if you are to be consistent, you have no case in this regard. : : |> To characterize any opposition to homosexuality as homophobic is to : |> ignore some very compelling arguments against the legitimization of : |> the homosexual "life-style". But since the charge is only intended to : |> intimidate, it's really just demogoguery and not to be taken : |> seriously. Fact is, Jim, there are far more persuasive arguments for : |> suppressing homosexuality than those given, but consider this a start. : |> : : Again crap. All your arguments are based on outdated ideals. Likewise the : bible. Would any honest Christian condemn the ten generations spawned by : a "bastard" to eternal damnation? Or someone who crushes his penis (either : accidently or not..!). Both are in Deuteronomy. I'm sure your comment pertains to something, but you've disguised it so well I can't see what. Where did I mention ideals, out-dated or otherwise? Your arguments are very reactionary; do you have anything at all to contribute? : : |> As to why homosexuals should be excluded from participation in : |> scouting, the reasons are the same as those used to restrict them from : |> teaching; by their own logic, homosexuals are deviates, social and : |> biological. Since any adult is a role model for a child, it is : |> incumbent on the parent to ensure that the child be isolated from : |> those who would do the child harm. In this case, harm means primarily : |> social, though that could be extended easily enough. : |> : |> : : You show me *anyone* who has sex in a way that everyone would describe as : normal, and will take of my hat (Puma baseball cap) to you. "One man's meat : is another man's poison"! : What has this got to do with anything? Would you pick a single point that you find offensive and explain your objections, I would really like to believe that you can discuss this issue intelligibly.
Be warned, it is not my job to convert you. That is the job of the Holy Spirit. And I, frankly, make a lousy one. I am only here to testify. Your conversion is between you and God. I am "out of the loop". If you decide to follow Jesus, of which I indeed would be estatic, then all the glory be to God.
That's right, and this is pretty impossible, right? It would be ideal if we could believe for a while, just to try out religion, and only then determine which course of thought suits us best. But again, this is not possible. Not that religion warrants belief, but the belief carries with it some psychological benefits. There are also some psychological burdens, too. Well, if there were some psychological or other benefits gained from racism, they could only be fully understood or judged by persons actually "believing" in racism. Of course, the parallel happens to be a poor one, but you originated it.
I think this guy is going to be just a little bit disappointed. Lemieux two, Tocchet, Mullen, Tippett, and Jagr. I buzzed my friend because I forgot who had scored Mullen's goal. I said, "Who scored? Lemieux two, Tocchet, Tippett, Jagr." The funny part was I said the "Jagr" part non-chalantly as he was in the process of scoring while I was asking this question!!! :-) All in all ABC's coverage wasn't bad. On a scale of 1-10, I give it about an 8. How were the games in the Chi/St. Louis/LA area??? That's stupid!!! I'd complain to the television network! If I were to even see a Pirates game on instead of a Penguins game at this time of the year, I and many other Pittsburghers would surely raise hell!!! Texas is off to a good start, they may pull it out this year. Whoops! That belongs in rec.sport.baseball!!!
MLB Standings and Scores for Friday, April 16th, 1993 (including yesterday's games) NATIONAL WEST Won Lost Pct. GB Last 10 Streak Home Road San Francisco Giants 06 04 .600 -- 6-4 Won 1 03-01 03-03 Houston Astros 05 04 .556 0.5 5-4 Lost 1 00-03 05-01 Atlanta Braves 06 05 .545 0.5 5-5 Lost 2 03-03 03-02 Colorado Rockies 03 05 .375 2.0 3-5 Won 1 03-03 00-02 Los Angeles Dodgers 03 07 .300 3.0 3-7 Lost 4 00-03 03-04 San Diego Padres 02 07 .222 3.5 2-7 Lost 4 00-04 02-03 Cincinnati Reds 02 07 .222 3.5 2-7 Lost 3 01-02 01-05 NATIONAL EAST Philadelphia Phillies 08 01 .889 -- 8-1 Won 5 05-01 03-00 Pittsburgh Pirates 07 02 .778 1.0 7-2 Won 4 03-02 04-00 St. Louis Cardinals 07 02 .778 1.0 7-2 Won 3 04-02 03-00 New York Mets 04 04 .500 3.5 4-4 Lost 1 02-03 02-01 Chicago Cubs 04 05 .444 4.0 4-5 Won 1 01-02 03-03 Montreal Expos 04 05 .444 4.0 4-5 Won 1 01-02 03-03 Florida Marlins 03 06 .333 5.0 3-6 Won 1 02-04 01-02 AMERICAN WEST Won Lost Pct. GB Last 10 Streak Home Road Texas Rangers 06 02 .750 -- 6-2 Lost 1 04-02 02-00 California Angels 05 02 .714 0.5 5-2 Won 3 03-02 02-00 Chicago White Sox 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Won 1 02-03 02-01 Minnesota Twins 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Lost 1 01-02 03-02 Oakland Athletics 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Lost 2 04-02 00-02 Seattle Mariners 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Lost 1 03-02 01-02 Kansas City Royals 02 07 .222 4.5 2-7 Won 1 01-05 01-02 AMERICAN EAST Boston Red Sox 07 02 .778 -- 7-2 Won 3 03-00 04-02 Toronto Blue Jays 05 03 .625 1.5 5-3 Won 1 04-02 01-01 New York Yankees 05 04 .556 2.0 5-4 Lost 1 02-01 03-03 Detroit Tigers 04 04 .500 2.5 4-4 Won 2 02-00 02-04 Cleveland Indians 03 06 .333 4.0 3-6 Lost 3 02-01 01-05 Milwaukee Brewers 02 05 .286 4.0 2-5 Lost 4 00-02 02-03 Baltimore Orioles 02 06 .222 4.5 2-6 Won 1 00-02 02-04 YESTERDAY'S SCORES (IDLE teams listed in alphabetical order) NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Houston Astros 1 Seattle Mariners 1 Montreal Expos 2 Toronto Blue Jays 3 New York Mets 3 Oakland Athletics 2 Colorado Rockies 5 Detroit Tigers 3 Pittsburgh Pirates 5 Kansas City Royals 5 San Diego Padres 4 (13) New York Yankees 4 St. Louis Cardinals 4 Cleveland Indians 3 Los Angeles Dodgers 2 Boston Red Sox 4 (13) Atlanta Braves 1 California Angels PPD San Francisco Giants 6 Milwaukee Brewers RAIN Chicago Cubs IDLE Baltimore Orioles IDLE Cincinnati Reds IDLE Chicago White Sox IDLE Florida Marlins IDLE Minnesota Twins IDLE Philadelphia PhilliesIDLE Texas Rangers IDLE -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Joseph Hernandez | RAMS | | /.\ ******* _|_|_ / | LAKERS jtchern@ocf.Berkeley.EDU | KINGS | |__ | | DODGERS _|_|_ | | RAIDERS jtcent@soda.Berkeley.EDU | ANGELS |____||_|_| ******* | | |___| CLIPPERS
Well, lets see....I took a class on this last fall, and I have no notes so I'll try to wing it... Here's how I understand it. Remember from stellar evolution that black holes and neutron stars(pulsars) are formed from high mass stars, M(star)=1.4M(sun). High mass stars live fast and burn hard, taking appoximately 10^5-10^7 years before going nova, or supernova. In this time, they don't live long enough to get perturbed out of the galactic plane, so any of these (if assumed to be the sources of GRB's) will be in the plane of the galaxy. Then we take the catalog of bursts that have been recieved from the various satellites around the solar system, (Pioneer Venus has one, either Pion. 10 or 11, GINGA, and of course BATSE) and we do distribution tests on our catalog. These tests all show, that the bursts have an isotropic distribution(evenly spread out in a radial direction), and they show signs of homogeneity, i.e. they do not clump in any one direction. So, unless we are sampling the area inside the disk of the galaxy, we are sampling the UNIVERSE. Not cool, if you want to figure out what the hell caused these things. Now, I suppose you are saying, "Well, we stil only may be sampling from inside the disk." Well, not necessarily. Remember, we have what is more or less an interplanetary network of burst detectors with a baseline that goes waaaay out to beyond Pluto(pioneer 11), so we should be able, with all of our detectors de tect some sort of difference in angle from satellite to satellite. Here's an analogy: You see a plane overhead. You measure the angle of the plane from the origin of your arbitrary coordinate system. One of your friends a mile away sees the same plane, and measures the angle from the zero point of his arbitrary system, which is the same as yours. The two angles are different, and you should be able to triangulate the position of your burst, and maybe find a source. To my knowledge, no one has been able to do this. I should throw in why halo, and corona models don't work, also. As I said before, looking at the possible astrophysics of the bursts, (short timescales, high energy) black holes, and pulsars exhibit much of this type of behavior. If this is the case, as I said before, these stars seem to be bound to the disk of the galaxy, especially the most energetic of the these sources. When you look at a simulated model, where the bursts are confined to the disk, but you sample out to large distances, say 750 mpc, you should definitely see not only an anisotropy towards you in all direction, but a clumping of sources in the direction of the galactic center. As I said before, there is none of these characteristics.
Peanut butter was definitely my favorite. I don't think I ever took a second bite of the strawberry. I recently joined Nutri-System and their "Chewy Fudge Bar" is very reminicent of the chocolate Space Food. This is the only thing I can find that even comes close the taste. It takes you back... your taste-buds are happy and your intestines are in knots... joy! -- mark ---------------------------- (adam@paix.sw.stratus.com) | My opinions are not those of Stratus. | Hell! I don`t even agree with myself!
Excuse me but I do know what I safety is supposed to do. It's basic purpose - not to let the gun fire until you're ready. Christ, I've known that since I had my first Crosman air gun. You don't know me so don't make assumptions about what I know and don't know. I do know that the Glock has multiple safties from reports, looking at them at a gun shop, and friends who own one. From the things I have read/heard Glocks are always knocked because of the trigger safety. They are supposedly harder to learn to use properly. Every article that I have read can't be wrong about the damn thing. And don't ask me to quote my sources because I don't keep a ton of gun magazines and/or rec.guns articles laying around. Boy, you can't make a simple statement on here without someone getting right on your ass. No wonder why there are so many problems in the world. Everyone takes everything just a little too seriously. By the way, I'm not going to reply to any of this stuff anymore as someone made the good point that this discussion is getting too close to r.g (And yes I know that I had something to do with that).
Hi, I'm interested in writing a program to generate a SIRD picture, you know the stereogram where you cross your eyes and the picture becomes 3D. Does anyone have one or know where I can get one? Please e-mail to steveq@sndcrft.DIALix.oz.au with any replies. Many thanks for your help.
Since I repost this message again for the second time, I hope to hear from some folks on this topic. Please reply. Regards,
Well, chimps must have some system. They live in social groups as we do, so they must have some "laws" dictating undesired behavior.
I am a newbie to the net, and I am trying to get some information for a paper I am working on to get back into college. If anyone can send me data on Solar coronal holes and recurrant aurora for the past thirty years it would be a big help. Or, if you have information on more esoteric things like Telluric current, surge bafflers power companies use, or other effects sporatic aurora have on the Earth's magnetic field, I'd be eternally gratefull. Please send anything interesting to me at Marty Crandall-Grela Van Vleck Observatory Wesleyan University Middletown,Ct 06487 or e-mail it to me at mcrandall@eagle.wesleyan.edu Thank-you in advance, Marty
Hi, I've come across a fast triangle fill-draw routine for mode 13h. By calling this routine enough times, you have a fast polygon drawing routine. I think I ftp'ed from wuarchive.wustl.edu:/pub/MSDOS_UPLOADS/programming. I have a copy of it so I reupload it there. The triangle.txt file has this to say :
I'm looking for a PC that is small and doesn't break apart if you drop it on the groud. It doesn't have to have graphics, text only will do just fine. It doesn't have to be fast either, 8086 will do, I hope. But you must stand a pretty hard enviroment without breaking apart, jumnping on it or trying to use it outdoor while it is raining and so forth. I need 640Kb of memory and a convinient way of loading applications into it that I wrote myself (floppy or somekind of writeable cartridge?). Is there a PC like that?? And where can I get more info? I know of the Atari portfolio but it can't stand the rain....
In <lsran6INN14a@exodus.Eng.Sun.COM> emarsh@hernes-sun.Eng.Sun.COM (Eric Huh? Please explain. Is there a problem because I based my morality on something that COULD be wrong? Gosh, there's a heck of a lot of stuff that I believe that COULD be wrong, and that comes from sources that COULD be wrong. What do you base your belief on atheism on? Your knowledge and reasoning? COuldn't that be wrong? MAC -- **************************************************************** Michael A. Cobb "...and I won't raise taxes on the middle University of Illinois class to pay for my programs." Champaign-Urbana -Bill Clinton 3rd Debate cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu
It's still in the pub/pc/win3/uploads directory as qvtnet34.zip.
In the UIBM PC world, how much of a "standard" has VESA become for SVGA graphics? I know there are lots of graphics-board companies out there, as well as several graphics chips manufacturers- are they adhering to the VESA standard, and what effect is/will the VESA Local Bus have on all of this? Anyone?
I recently aquired a Quantum Q250 harddisk. It is a 50 meg 5.25" mechanism. It is SCSI. I have a few questions and a few problems. First there seems to be an extra connector socket on the back that I can't figure out what it is for. The address is set by some jumpers on the bottom so I don't think it is for that. Any ideas? Second, it would be nice to get a hardware manual for the drive. There are a lot of jumpers on it that we don't know what they are for. Third, I have got the drive to format. It took a while to get things to work and most of it is fine for now. The formating initialy was troublesome but seems to be ok. The main problem is if you do a reset on the MacPlus the drive disappears. If I shut the mac off and then back on agian then the drive comes up fine. Any ideas. Please reply to one of the email addresses below. Thanks
Where were you brought up? In the former USSR? Is Innocent until proven guilty by a jury of your peers, NOT Dan Rather, dead in this country? Seems so. Is tax evasion, the only charge brought against the BDs, punishable by death in this country, now? Not really. You are a blind idiot. "Not sure", yet you condem them to death for it? If the BATF had stayed home, all would be alive, now. So who murdered who? You have a short memory. next. Sleep well, tonite, heartless idiot. Sleep the sleep of the simple-minded. I shall weep for my country, myself. I'm short of patience tonite, but rabid dogs deserve and get better treatment than the BDs got. Jim -- jmd@handheld.com
Mysstem crashes aftwer sleepp. I use 1.0.1 enabler. I use appletalk and filesharing. I have and ExpressModem. --Lowell
This is one of my favorite fallacious points against atheism, i.e. the belief that you can't deny anything that you can't prove doesn't exist. This is easily nailed by showing that an infinite number of beings are conceivable but not observed to exist, does this mean that we would have to believe in all of them? According to the above poster, we must believe in objects or beings that haven't been proved not to exist so why stop at God? (there could be a huge number of beings identical to Ronald Reagan except for trivial differences, say one is missing a finger, one has blond hair,... and they all live on other planets so we can't see them) The reason no one but atheists bring this up is that none of these christians have a vested interest in these unknown beings with the exception of God. How did they shoot themselves in the foot? There is a big difference here, Stalin didn't say that he stood for a particular moral position (i.e. against murder and terrorism, etc.) and then did the opposite (like the religious movements), he was at least an honest killer. (This is NOT a support of Stalin but an attack on this viewpoint). Saying that atheism supports murder and violence just because one man was a tyrant and an atheist is just bad logic, look at all the russians that helped Stalin that weren't atheists - don't they contradict your point? Besides your point assumes that his atheism was relevant to his murdering people, this is just the common assumption that atheists can't value life as much as theists (which you didn't support). Ah, and here's another point you didn't get out of the FAQ. An atheist doesn't have to hold the positive view that god doesn't exist, he/she may just have the non-existence of the positive belief. Here's the example: Strong atheism - "I believe god does not exist" a positive belief Weak atheism - "I don't believe in a god" a negative belief these are NOT the same, some one that has never thought of the idea of god in their whole life is technically an atheist, but not the kind that you are calling unreasonable. Or let's look at it this way (in sets) suppose that a given person has a huge set of ideas that I will represent as capital letters and these people then either believe that these ideas exist as real objects or not. So if S = santa, then E(S)= no is the person not believing in santa but still having the idea of santa. But notice that even E(S) = no is itself another idea! This means you have lots of cases: christian : (A,E(A)=yes,B,E(B)=no, . . . G,E(G)=yes......) where G = god atheist (strong) : (A,E(A). . . . .G,E(G)=no) atheist (weak) : (A,.....E) i.e. no G at all in the set agnostic : (A,.......G, E(G) = indeterminate, E', ....) Nietzsche once said that a man would rather will nonexistence than not will at all but the darwinist way to put this is that humanity always prefers no or yes to a maybe because indecision is not a useful survival trait, evolution has drilled it in us to take positions, even false ones.
I am seeking some alternate solutions on how to turn a Postscript Type 1 or TrueType font outline into polygons that can be subsequently scan converted by a 3D scanline renderer. I have been studying the problem of font conversion for a few years but have never had the need to implement such a system. Well, I now have the opportunity to write some font rendering software so I would like to have some of my questions answered before I jump into the deep end. The main problem I face is how to use the even/odd or non-winding rules to turn the outlines into a single outline polygon (my renderer can handle complex polygons so there is no need to reduce the polygons to simple polygons). For example, in the letter "O" there are two outlines: 1) The outside outline which is clockwise (TrueType font) 2) The inside outline which is counterclockwise. One common solution used by a number of rendering packages is to simply connect the inner outline to the outer outline at the point where the two outlines are closest. This is equivalent to descibing a "polygon with holes". The renderer will then make the appropriate hole since the interior polygon edges are in the opposite direction to the outside edges. I do not want to use this simplistic system since: 1) It will not handle all outline fonts properly (it is not a simple matter to connect the outer outline to the inner outline for some fancy fonts). 2) It does not properly handle the even/odd or non-winding rules. From my research over the years the proper solution is to use a trapezoid decomposition algorithm to scan convert the outlines into trapezoids (as is done by the Postscript and TrueType font rasterizers). These trapezoidal polygons can then be easily and properly rendered by the 3D scanline renderer. My question is: are there any better solutions to turning the outlines into polgyons other than the trapezoid decomposer? I am not fond of this solution since it creates excess number of polygons. Another question, for those in the know: what is the best algorithm to create bevelled and/or offset curves for font outlines? I have a dozen papers on these subjects but I can't tell which method is the best to implement. Thanks for any pointers. --> Rob Lansdale
You can change it. As part of a continuously downsizing Government organization, my code (branch) changes about once a year. I just finished changing the registration information using Norton Utilities. I sent the original requester the hex offset into USER.EXE containing the information, and his reply indicated he got several similar answers. And it's not encoded in any way. As for the legality, there's nothing that keeps me from changing the information; it certainly doesn't reach out and alter the serial number printed on the inside of my manual.
Do you have a terminal cold? Karabag is 'Turkish' and will remain 'Turkish'. Here we are, almost at the end of the 20th century, and a whole community, the Azeri Turks of x-Soviet Armenia and Karabag, is facing forced assimilation, torture and murder on one hand and forced exodus, expulsion and genocide on the other, all because of their ethnic and religious background. And one should ask herself: is the world community really so powerless? Where are all those human rights advocates? Where are all the decent people? Are we going to let this human tragedy go on and do nothing about it? The number of Azeris murdered by the terrorist Armenian army and its savage gangs is increasing. On the one hand they wish to distort the truth and on the other, they beg mercy from Turkiye. The Age...Melbourne...6/3/92 By Helen WOMACK .... Agdam, Azerbaijan, Thursday The exact number of victims is still unclear, but there can be little doubt that Azeri civilians were massacred by Armenian fighters in the snowy mountains of Nagorno-Karabakh last week. Refugees from the enclave town of Khojaly, sheltering in the Azeri border town of Agdam, give largely consistent accounts of how their enemies attacked their homes on the night of 25 February, chased those who fled and shot them in the surrounding forests. Yesterday, I saw 75 freshly dug graves in one cemetery in addition to four mutilated corpses we were shown in the mosque when we arrived in Agdam late on Tuesday. I also saw women and children with bullet wounds in a makeshift hospital in a string of railway carriages. Khojaly, an Azeri settlement in the enclave mostly populated by Armenians, had a population of about 6000. Mr. Rashid Mamedov Commander of Police in Agdam, said only about 500 escaped to his town. " So where are the rest?". Some might have taken prisoner, he said, or fled. Many bodies were still lying in the mountains because the Azeris were short of helicopters to retrieve them. He believed more than 1000 had perished, some of cold in temperatures as low as minus 10 degrees. One refugee, Rami Nasiru, described how Khojaly residents at first thought the attack was no more than the routine shooting to which they had become accustomed in four years of conflict. But when they saw the Armenians with a convoy of armored personnel carriers, they realised they could not hope to defend themselves with machineguns and grenades, and fled into the forests. In the small hours, the massacre started. Mr. Nasiru, who believes his wife and two children were taken prisoner, repeated what many other refugees have said - that troops of the former Soviet army helped the Armenians to attack Khojaly. "It is not my opinion, I saw it with my own eyes." Serdar Argic
Hi there, is there anybody who know a polygon_reduction algorithm for marching cube surfaces. e.g. the algirithm of Schroeder, Siggraph'92. For any hints, hugs and kisses. - Erwin
Not particularly *in* the World Series. During the season, he was probably more valuable than, say, putting Olerud out there to pitch, but yeah, he *was* valuable in getting them there. In the postseason, he sucked dirty canal water through a straw. The Jays won *in spite* of Morris much more than *because of* him. Umm, Roger? Return with us to those halcyon days of a few postings ago, where the poster Valentine was replying to used # of WS rings as a measure of better. The concept is called "context", and you should really become familiar with it someday. Unless this transaltes to "Clemens hasn't gone into Lou Gorman's office with a large caliber handgun and refused to come out until he'd been traded to the Jays," I'm at a complete loss as to any possible meaning for it. What on earth does this mean? Over their careers, Clemens has "won" 68% of the games he's started, Morris 58%. Per year, Clemens has averaged nearly 17 wins, Morris just under 15. Would you grant the proposition that preventing the other team from scoring increases your chances of winning a game? If so, then consider that Clemens allows 2.8 runs/9 innings pitched. Morris allows nearly a run more per nine innings. In fact, Jack Morris has never in his career had an ERA for a single year as good as Clemens' career ERA. But I forget, in the Maynardverse there was obviously some mystical significance to Buckner missing that grounder in 1986; had Morris been on the Sox, it would have been a routine groundout, right? Speaking of stupid, it has been patiently (and not-so-patiently) explained to you many times that attributing greatness to players based on the accomplishments of their teams makes about as much sense as claiming that a racecar has the most attractive paint job because it won the race. Your continued failure to not only understand but even to intelligently reply to any of the arguments presented leads me to the conclusion that you must have spent a few too many games in goal without a mask. No one is crying; the Jays won, and as a team they certainly deserved to win at least the AL East. They performed well in two short series and won the World Series, and I congratulate them for it. As a Red Sox fan, I hope they keep Morris. I was happy when they picked up Stewart, and elated when they traded for Darrin Jackson. You see, unless you believe in some mystical link between Morris and the offense, you can hardly help but believe that the man was credited with so many wins last year because he got lucky. Luck runs out, just like it did in 1982 when he pitched 50-odd more innings than 1992, gave up exactly *one* earned run more than in 1992, and went 17-16. Seriously, Roger, I'd really like to hear your explanation of the difference between the 1982 Morris and the 1992 Morris. Which one was a better pitcher, and why? Did Morris somehow "learn how to win" in the intervening ten years? If so, then why did he go 18-12 in 1991 with Minnesota with an ERA over half a run lower than 1992? Mike Jones | AIX High-End Development | mjones@donald.aix.kingston.ibm.com
I'm currently having trouble connecting my PB to a true blue (IBM Model 1513) VGA monitor. The display is bearly readable but all the details are seperated into yellow and red colors. ie. a window will have two images one in yellow and a ghost image in red. The background is also a little greenish. I read some time ago, before I ever thought I would hook my mac up to a VGA screen, about an incompatability with some VGA monitors due to the sync on green signal. Does this sound like it could be the same demon? I also read that there are both hardware (putting a diode on the green signal?) solution and a software solution to this problem. I don't the details does somebody have them the can e-mail to me or post them? I checked all the FAQ's for this and didn't find anything about it. Did I miss it somewhere? This sure seems that it would be a good thing to have in one. Thanks for any replys.
Now, I am jumping into the middle of this thread so I may not know what y'all been talking about, but I have a few comments: There are a number of other factors that are very important, the three biggest being air velocity, air momentum and shock waves. Velocity stacks have been used for years and are now being used inside of stock airboxes on a number of bikes. At a tuned engine rpm, the stacks can greatly increase the speed, and thus momentum of the air rushing in. Air momentum is critical in getting good air intake: the momentum of the air stack outside the combustion chamber will force its way inside long after the piston has begun its compressive up-stroke. Shock waves are used to induce air intake and to prevent fresh air from escaping out the exzhaust ports. Shock waves are the product of expansion chambers or any other means of presenting a 'wall' (opening or closing) to the air in motion. Beyond this I am lost in the mystery of how they design for shock waves.
1) make sure your hard drive is defragmented. This will speed up more than just windows BTW. Use something like Norton's or PC Tools. 2) I _think_ that leaving the wall paper out will use less RAM and therefore will speed up your machine but I could very will be wrong on this. There's a good chance you've already done this but if not it may speed things up. good luck Morgan Bullard mb4008@coewl.cen.uiuc.edu or mjbb@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
There is one reason: market size. The market size for color quickdraw for accellerated plusses and SEs (which don't go beyond 4 MB anyway) is just too small; the extra cost would belike $1,000 and with that money, you can buy a color classic instead. Cheers, / h+ -- -- Jon W{tte, h+@nada.kth.se, Mac Hacker Deluxe --
My girlfriend switched to gas-permeable hard lenses and no longer needs a one year old soft contact lens cleaning unit. It's one of those where you pop in the lens case filled with solution and the lenses, press the lighted timer button and let it cook. No stains (of course -- if you've owned one of these, you understand), maybe a little dust on the cover. Best cash offer, or equivalent worth in used CD's or Betamax tapes (some blanks or a couple of pre-recorded movies/concerts). gld
Owen only has one error so far, I believe. That seriously underrepresents the harm he has done in the field. Owen will cleanly play any ball he reaches. He will have a fine fielding percentage, like always. The problem is that he doesn't reach anything that isn't hit straight at him! This wouldn't be quite as obvious a problem if he were playing next to Kelly Gruber or Robin Ventura. But the third baseman for the Yankees is Wade Boggs (who should have moved across the diamond *last* year)! I've only seen one game, Abbott's first start, but there were three balls hit to the left side which would have been stopped by quality defensive players. Instead they were charged as hits against Abbott.
They spent quite a bit of time on the wording of the Constitution. They picked words whose meanings implied the intent. We have already looked in the dictionary to define the word. Isn't this sufficient? But we were discussing it in relation to the death penalty. And, the Constitution need not define each of the words within. Anyone who doesn't know what cruel is can look in the dictionary (and we did).
Or perhaps any planning at all. :-) Hiya Pete, still got that CBX? Nice to hear from you again! Ouch. :-) This brings to mind one of the recommendations in the Hurt Study. Because the rear of the gas tank is in close proximity to highly prized and easily damaged anatomy, Hurt et al recommended that manufacturers build the tank so as to reduce the, er, step function provided when the rider's body slides off of the seat and onto the gas tank in the unfortunate event that the bike stops suddenly and the rider doesn't. I think it's really inspiring how the manufacturers have taken this advice to heart in their design of bikes like the CBR900RR and the GTS1000A.
Hooray ! I always suspected that I was human too :-) It is the desire to be like Christ that often causes christians to be very critical of themselves and other christians. We are supposed to grow, mature, endeavour to be Christ-like but we are far far far from perfect. Build up the body of Christ, don't tear it down, and that includes yourself. Jesus loves me just the way I am today, tomorrow and always (thank God ! :-).
Sorry, but it doesn't matter what _you_ think, I am a Christian, who happens to belong to the LDS Church. [The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints]. I don't usually read t.r.m. It is truly informative to stop by, and see that there are still people in the world like those that forced my ancestors into the deserts of Utah, and then out of the country entirely. (My grandmother was born in Mexico, where her family had moved to escape religious persecution in the US). I'm willing to admit that members of other churches are Christians, if they believe in Christ and (try to) follow his teachings, even though they have different interpretations of the bible. And yet these other churches often go out of their way to define whether or not I am considered to be Christian. Could someone mail me a set of rules/beliefs that must be followed to be a Christian? Does this set of rules exclude other large bodies of believers? I know, this is a waste of everyone's time, this has probably been discussed N times, etc. I guess I'm more sensitive to this 'demonization' after what went on in Texas.
We have no way to know that the cultists burned the house; it could have been the BATF and FBI. We only have the government's word for it, after all, and people who started it by a no-knock search with concussion grenades are hardly disinterested observers. -- "On the first day after Christmas my truelove served to me... Leftover Turkey! On the second day after Christmas my truelove served to me... Turkey Casserole that she made from Leftover Turkey. [days 3-4 deleted] ... Flaming Turkey Wings! ... -- Pizza Hut commercial (and M*tlu/A*gic bait)
Fellow Texans and Members of Crime Strike in Texas Crime Strike in Texas has a loosely knit coalition with most Victims Rights Groups in Texas. We ask that you write a letter protesting the release of the following murderer. This letter should be written to : Raven Kazen - Victims Services Board of Pardons and Paroles P.O. Box 13401 - Capital Station Austin, Texas 78711 The letter should be written if at all possible on RED PAPER as that was agreed on at one of our first meetings . It represents the coalition and all of its parts as well as the heart ache of those left behind and the blood spilled by these criminals. The letter should have only one name on it so it can be filed in the folder of that criminal waiting for his next try at parole. List of Criminals: Today we have only one parole to protest , On October 4, 1990, Mark Steven Hughes rendered numerous blows to the head of James Allen Pompa . Ten month old James went into a coma and died two days later. On July 8, 1992, Mark Steven Hughes pled guilty to Injury to a Child and received a ten-year sentence. According to Texas law, Mark became eligible for parole on January 4, 1992 -- six months before he was even sentenced! Would you join us in strongly protesting the release from prison of Mark Steven Hughes, who beat a baby to death . Mark Steven Hughes - beat to death the baby boy of Russel Pompa -- Reference Mark Steven Hughes - TDC# 633546 Mark your envelope "PROTEST LETTER" on the front and back. A typical letter is indicated on the next page --- THANK YOU VERY MUCH. Irvin Wilson - Volunteer Crime Strike Texas Date: April 13, 1993 Raven Kazen - Victims Services Board of Pardons and Paroles P.O. Box 13401 - Capital Station Austin , Texas 78711 I protest the parole of Mark Steven Hughes TDC#633546, who, murdered James Son of Russel Pompa. He should be kept in prison for his full sentence and not be released at any time prior to his full sentence for any reason. Irvin Wilson Houston, Texas
Any lunar satellite needs fuel to do regular orbit corrections, and when its fuel runs out it will crash within months. The orbits of the Apollo motherships changed noticeably during lunar missions lasting only a few days. It is *possible* that there are stable orbits here and there -- the Moon's gravitational field is poorly mapped -- but we know of none. Perturbations from Sun and Earth are relatively minor issues at low altitudes. The big problem is that the Moon's own gravitational field is quite lumpy due to the irregular distribution of mass within the Moon.
Stuff deleted I sure hope you got the cost of a replacement panel out of the owner. Here if the owner should seem reluctant, a stop by the local SPCA (preferably with your foot/leg all swollen up) to file a viscious dog report would do the trick. -g.
Disclaimer -- This is for fun. In my computerized baseball game, I keep track of a category called "stolen hits", defined as a play made that "an average fielder would not make with average effort." Using the 1992 Defensive Averages posted by Sherri Nichols (Thanks Sherri!), I've figured out some defensive stats for the second basemen. Hits Stolen have been redefined as "Plays Kurt Stillwell would not have made." OK, I realize that's unfair. Kurt's probably the victim of pitching staff, fluke shots, and a monster park factor. But let's put it this way: If we replaced every second baseman in the NL with someone with Kurt's 57.6% out making ability, how many extra hits would go by? To try and correlate it to reality a little more, I've calculated Net Hits Stolen, based on the number of outs made compared to what a league average fielder would make. By the same method I've calculated Net Double Plays, and Net Extra Bases (doubles and triples let by). Finally, I throw all this into a a formula I call Defensive Contribution, or DCON :->. Basically, it represents the defensive contribution of a player. I add this number to OPS to get DOPS (Defense + Onbase Plus Slug), which should represent the player's total contribution to the team. So don't take it too seriously. The formula for DCON appears at the end of this article. The short version -- definition of terms HS -- Hits Stolen -- Extra outs compared to Kurt Stillwell NHS -- Net Hits Stolen -- Extra outs compared to average fielder NDP -- Net Double Plays -- Extra double plays turned compared to avg fielder NEB -- Net Extra Bases -- Extra bases prevented compared to avg. fielder DCON -- Defensive Contribution -- bases and hits prevented, as a rate. DOPS -- DCON + OPS -- quick & dirty measure of player's total contribution. National League name HS NHS NDP NEB DCON DOPS Alicea, L. 50 21 2 -1 .160 .865 Sandberg, R. 108 42 1 1 .134 1.015 Thompson, R. 65 20 5 -1 .104 .852 Lind, J. 66 8 -2 1 .027 .571 Doran, B. 31 -1 4 0 .014 .705 DeShields, D. 51 1 -2 1 -.002 .755 Harris, L. 25 -4 0 1 -.019 .602 Lemke, M. 43 -1 -5 -5 -.038 .573 Morandini, M. 37 -9 -6 0 -.069 .580 Randolph, W. 13 -16 3 -1 -.088 .582 Biggio, C. 34 -26 -4 0 -.091 .656 Stillwell, K. 0 -43 -3 -1 -.236 .336 Ordered by DOPS 1.015 Sandberg .865 Alicea .852 Thompson .755 DeShields .705 Doran .678 *NL Average* .656 Biggio .602 Harris .582 Randolph .580 Morandini .573 Lemke .571 Lind .336 Stillwell American League --------------- name HS NHS NDP NEB DCON DOPS Fletcher, S. 59 18 5 1 .116 .811 Reed, J. 83 17 3 1 .071 .708 Ripken, B. 56 9 -1 -1 .044 .631 Baerga, C. 67 0 10 0 .029 .838 Blankenship, L. 34 2 2 1 .023 .757 Miller, K. 34 -4 1 -1 -.016 .725 Alomar, R. 62 4 -9 -2 -.020 .812 Knoblauch, C. 50 -13 7 -3 -.024 .718 Bordick, M. 37 -4 -2 -1 -.025 .704 Kelly, P. 42 -1 -5 -1 -.039 .636 Whitaker, L. 40 -8 -1 -2 -.041 .806 Reynolds, H. 47 -6 -5 1 -.043 .603 Sax, S. 56 -6 -9 -1 -.052 .555 Sojo, L. 28 -11 -3 0 -.075 .602 Order by DOPS .838 Baerga .812 Alomar .811 Fletcher .806 Whitaker .757 Blankenship .725 Miller .718 Knoblauch .708 Reed .704 Bordick .691 *AL Average* .636 Kelly .631 Ripken .603 Reynolds .602 Sojo .555 Sax More discussion -- DCON formula: ((NHS + NDP)/PA) + ((NHS + NDP + NEB)/AB) Why such a bizzare formula? Basically, it's designed to be added into the OPS, with the idea that "a run prevented is as important as a run scored". The extra outs are factored into OBP, while the extra bases removed are factored into SLG. That's why I used PA and AB as the divisors. For more discussion see the post on Hits Stolen -- First Base 1992 -- Dale J. Stephenson |*| (steph@cs.uiuc.edu) |*| Baseball fanatic
We need a good concave ->convex polygon conversion routine. I've tried a couple without much luck. Please E-mail responses and I will post a summary of any replies. Thank you.
I heard the same thing, but without confirmation that he actually said it. It was just as alarming to us as to you; the Bible says that nobody knows when the second coming will take place.
I love it, I love it, I love it!! Wish I could fit all that into a .sig file! (If someone is keeping a list of Bobby quotes, be sure to include this one!) The Flat-Earthers state that "the Earth is flat" is a fact. I don't accept this, I think it's an unproven opinion, and I think the Round-Earthers are right because they have better evidence than the Flat-Earthers do. Although I can't prove that a god doesn't exist, the arguments used to support a god's existence are weak and often self-contradictory, and I'm not going to believe in a god unless someone comes over to me and gives me a reason to believe in a god that I absolutely can't ignore. A while ago, I read an interesting book by a fellow called Von Daenicken, in which he proved some of the wildest things, and on the last page, he wrote something like "Can you prove it isn't so?" I certainly can't, but I'm not going to believe him, because he based his "proof" on some really questionable stuff, such as old myths (he called it "circumstancial evidence" :] ). So far, atheism hasn't made me kill anyone, and I'm regarded as quite an agreeable fellow, really. :)
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: Gaza and separation from Israel Gaza and the idea of separation The Israeli Left's inability to cope with the challenges it is presented with by reality becomes obvious at those moments when the reality does not line up with the expectations of the left. We were able to see this clearly during the Gulf War. Because of the Palestinian's popular solidarity with Iraq, Yossi Sarid - currently Minister of the Environment - made his infamous statement: "You look for me !", i.e., I'am not making any more efforts to speak with you. From Yossi Sarid's point of view, Palestinian reality during the Gulf War was not the lengthy curfew or the danger of hunger it brought with it, but whether or not the Palestinians accepted what was acceptable to the party. Similarly MERETZ, MK Deddi Tzuker, recently faced with criticism from residents of the West Bank town of Beit Sahour over his government's and his party's lack of action for human rights and peace, responded by asking those present at the discussion whether they would rather have a Likud government. From the Leftists' perspective this is the best government because it is THEIR government, regardless of what it does. These members of the Israeli Left have already decided how the future of the Occupied Territories will look, and they want to dictate to the Palestinians how to get there. An essential step towards this future is their participation in Yitzhak Rabin's government, and from their point of view the expulsions were a marginal byproduct of this "government of peace", which need not disturb the routine course of events. Likewise the "Rabinic" policies in Gaza - the blowing up of houses with anti-tank rockets and the significant increases in the number of persons injured in the suppression of demonstrations - need not disturb it. But the fact that reality is not as they would have it forces itself upon them when a mob in Gaza falls upon a settler who has lost his way, when a settler is stabbed by his Palestinian workers, or when a Palestinian knifes people in the streets of Tel Aviv. Then all hell breaks loose and the Israeli Left has nothing to propose except separation: Let's cut ourselves off from the Palestinians, let's build a fence so high that they won't be able to harm us - this is the cry of the Israeli Left. Let us erect a fence between us and the reality whith is the occupation. Meron Benvenisti writes about this in Ha'aretz (4-3-93): "...The liberal Left. which does not differentiate between physical separation and 'the future of the territories', must come to understand that the regime of magnetic cards, exclusion of Arab workers, closure, and curfew are instruments of enforcement designed for the suppression of a population in revolt, and that their ideological support for separation only provides 'humanitarian' arguments for the legitimization of the <status quo>. Enforced separation is carried out only to meet the need of the ruling community, but it is only the ruled population which bears its burden. [.....]. "Whoover thinks that 'out of Gaza first' is a liberal, humanitarian idea had best contemplate the question of whether this position is also moral. It is very easy to shake off responsibility for this concentration of human suffering, and to thus also disregard responsibility for it's creation. It is very easy to erect a fence between Jewish and Arab neighborhoods in Jerusalem, when this fence has a gate - the keys to which are at the disposal of one hand - which opens to allow the Jews to pursue all their interests, but is barred to the Arabs...".
I think this is a little inaccurate, based on Feynman's account of the software-development process *before* the standdown. Fred is basically correct: no sophisticated tools, just a lot of effort and painstaking care. But they got this one right *before* Challenger; Feynman cited the software people as exemplary compared to the engine people. (He also noted that the software people were starting to feel management pressure to cut corners, but hadn't had to give in to it much yet.) Among other things, the software people worked very hard to get things right for the major pre-flight simulations, and considered a failure during those simulations to be nearly as bad as an in-flight failure. As a result, the number of major-simulation failures could be counted on one hand, and the number of in-flight failures was zero. As Fred mentioned elsewhere, this applies only to the flight software. Software that runs experiments is typically mostly put together by the experimenters, and gets nowhere near the same level of Tender Loving Care. (None of the experimenters could afford it.)
Relying on Canadian tourists and transplanted Northeasterners to support a team in Miami is crazy; espaecially when you have really deserving cities without a team such as San Diego & Milwaukee. I wish the Panthers or whatever their name is well but if they can't sell to Hispanics, they're in deep doo-doo. Already, there are rumors that Tampa may move to Milwaukee.
ON the subject of how many competing RC orders there are, let me point out the Golden Dawn is only the *outer* order of that tradition. The inner order is the Roseae Rubeae et Aurae Crucis. That's Ruby Rose and Gold Cross, in rough translation. The G.'.D.'. is a Rosicrucian order, as are all derivative groups. Of course, real Rosicrucians never admit to being Rosicrucian. Enjoy the journey! --Br'anArthur Queer, Peculiar, and Wyrd! :-)
re: is "John Q. Public with a gun" protected? Miller was convicted of owning a sawed-off shotgun and not paying the NFA '34 tax. Snatches of the court's decision: The Second Amendment was intended to "assure the continuation and render possible the effectiveness of such a force [the militia]... It must be interpreted and applied with that end in view." The militia includes "all males physically capable of acting in concert for the common defense." However, regarding sawed-off shotguns, "certainly it is not within judicial notice that this weapon is any part of the ordinary military equipment or that its use could contribute to the common defense." "Judicial notice" is the term of art here -- it meant that no such evidence had been formally presented. This is different from claiming that they had ruled that it wasn't. I'm not talking about plain shotguns in war -- I'm talking about short- barrelled ("sawed-off") shotguns in war. Compare Revolutionary War blunderbusses; luparas in the Spanish-American War; and trench-cleaners in WW I. They were also put to good use by US soldiers in WW II, not to mention being invaluable to "tunnel rats" in Vietnam, but, of course, "Miller" took place in 1939. Here is my quandary: you seem to be arguing that certain types of guns fall outside the scope of the Second. This isn't a useful argument unless you believe that some significant gun or class of gun belongs in that class. I think we both agree that zip guns probably aren't protected. Maybe we also both agree that all the weapons that random state governments have been banning or trying to ban because they have "no sporting purpose" and "no provate citizen would ever need these guns" DO fall under the protection of the Second. So, given that damn near any gun of any practical utility is or has at some time been used by the military, even if only for marksmanship training purposes, I need to understand why you are intent on pressing this point, arguing that that SOMETHING is not protected by the Second. Often, what makes someone unpopular is what other people say about him. How much did any of us fear or abhor the Branch Davidians six months ago? How many of us feared or abhorred Saddam Hussein five years ago? --
FOR SALE: Pen-based electronic organizer -- Brand-new Sharp Wizard OZ-9600 (with PC link software and cable) -15 ounces, measures 7"x4"x1" (fits in most pockets) -256k RAM, 125k available to user -pen/touch-screen input for pointing and drawing -keyboard big enough to touch-type on -320x240 screen -windows/pop-up menus -excellent scheduler with alarms -3 telephone directories -3 user-configurable databases -full word-processor with formatting -drawing utility -outliner -to-do list -calculator -clock/calendar -terminal emulatorw/ dialing directory -directory/filing system -serial port/infrared port/IC card slot -uses 4 AAA batteries (about 3 months of daily use) -All manuals Organizer Link II -software and cable for exchanging data between Wizard and a PC $480 or best offer for both. I'll pay shipping. Steven M Friedman Horizon Institute for Policy Solutions
I'm looking for a better method to back up files. Currently using a MaynStream 250Q that uses DC 6250 tapes. I will need to have a capacity of 600 Mb to 1Gb for future backups. Only DOS files. I would be VERY appreciative of information about backup devices or manufacturers of these products. Flopticals, DAT, tape, anything. If possible, please include price, backup speed, manufacturer (phone #?), and opinions about the quality/reliability. Please E-Mail, I'll send summaries to those interested. Thanx in advance,
This is incorrect. This year the Pens had 61 games on "free" TV and 6 games on PPV. Next year they will have 62 games on free TV and 22 on a subscription basis. You actually get 1 more free game than last year, and there will be no more "radio-only" games. Its a good deal. Last year, everybody bitched about Baldwin "breaking up the team". Now, he goes out of his way to keep the nucleus of this team together and that takes money. He comes up with a creative way to generate more revenue so he can afford this team, and people bitch some more. Everybody wants something for nothing. Dean --
GATEWAY Telepath 9600/9600 FAx/modem for gateway computer with crosstalk, Winfax Pro 2.01 for windows Never used. $170 shipped ($195 from gateway)
Unfortunately, Hep B infection can eventuate in chronic hepatitis and subsequent cirrhosis. Although not many patients with Hep B go on to chronic hepatitis, it does still occur in a good number (20%?) and is something to keep in mind. Hepatitis C (was: non-A, non-B Hep) much more frequently leads to chronic hep and cirrhosis. There is also an autimmune chronic hepatitis that affects mostly younger women which also leads to cirrhosis. Of course, cirrhosis is a most unkind disease. The most dangerous effects relate to portal hypertension and loss of liver function. Patients develop life-threatening variceal bleeds and hepatic comas, among many other problems, as a result of disturbances in hepatic circulation. Less ominously, they can exhibit the effects of hyperestrogenemia which often characterize patients with cirrhosis. These effects include telangiactasias (small red skin lesions) and, in men, gynecomastia (breast development). The only real treatment for cirrhosis is liver transplant. Keep in mind that cirrhosis is not expected, at least statistically, in your friend's case. Nevertheless you might want to bring up the subject of chronic disease and cirrhosis with the doctor. Hopefully he or she can then carefully explain these sequelae of Hep B infection to you, and offer you support.
Sporadically, yes. It seems to flicker, or change shape into snow briefly. Not enough to impair functionality, just call attention to Diamond's professional sloppiness. Rob
I just got through listening to the 10 o'clock news on Channel 4 here in Dallas. They trotted out a list of justifications produced by the ATF after "months of investigation" for their raid. I couldn't believe the junk on this list! For example, the BDs were accused of stockpiling a bunch of "9mm and .223 ammunition that can be used in M15 and M16 assault rifles". Imagine that--they had ammunition! They also had aluminum dust! (Yeah, it's a component of thermite, but so far I haven't heard that it's illegal to take a grinder to the aluminum lawn furniture...) The only thing on the list that could conceivably have been illegal was an M-79 grenade launcher. (Anybody know about this?) Months of investigation! For this 80+ people died!
I've been told that Panasonic has uploaded some to Compu$erve, but I don't have a CIS account. I just use the Epson FX-80 driver myself, and it comes out very pretty (if very slowly) on my 1080i.
Hi! I will like to know if there is a FORTRAN library for MS-Windows v3+ out there. I have several lots of source code written by past A/Ps in MS-FORTRAN, and recently have needed to port them to MS-Windows... I would like to avoid a major code-rewrite if possible - maybe a WINDOWS library is all I need? Please help - reply by E-mail to: traversmorgan@swell.actrix.gen.nz
I just noticed that my halogen table lamp runs off 12 Volts. The big thinngy that plugs into the wall says 12 Volts DC, 20mA The question is: Can I trickle charge the battery on my CB650 with it? I don't know the rating of the battery, but it is a factory intalled one. Thanks, Sanjay -- '81 CB650 DoD #1224
^^^^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ Can we assume that this guy studied advertising and not chemistry? Granted it probably a great advertising gimic, but it doesn't sound at all practical.
So why did the Australian Customs Service make a public statement to a parliamentary committee last year that weapons smuggling was a problem which it was not able to control? Possibly criminals don't have your grasp of economics?
Yeah, do you expect people to read the FAQ, etc. and actually accept hard atheism? No, you need a little leap of faith, Jimmy. Your logic runs out of steam! Jim, Sorry I can't pity you, Jim. And I'm sorry that you have these feelings of denial about the faith you need to get by. Oh well, just pretend that it will all end happily ever after anyway. Maybe if you start a new newsgroup, alt.atheist.hard, you won't be bummin' so much? Bye-Bye, Big Jim. Don't forget your Flintstone's Chewables! :) -- Bake Timmons, III
Speaking of spelling errors on the Cup, I wonder if the "h" in Pittsburgh made it to the Cup. You know how funny people can be about spelling Pittsburgh.
This is a two-sided problem. Unfortunately our culture has been deteriorating over time. The "breeding" of these low-life's is getting worse; our justice system is at best extremely weak to handle these problems. That is why low-abiding citizens should have the power to protect themselves and their property using deadly force if necessary anywhere a threat is imminent. My Camaro (my pride and joy) got stolen right out of my driveway a few years back. The persons that did that were eventually caught (lucky for me!) but not before having trashed the car. On another occasion, on my way from Texas to Florida, I had stopped in a small motel for the night in a small town somewhere in Florida. About 5 youths were disturbing my car, setting off the alarm and challenging me to come out. When I and another tenant walked out with a 357 Magnum and a 45 automatic respectively, they vanished. Needless to say, I immediately packed-up and left. Watch out for car-jacking and staged accidents. They can be deadly!
Does anyone know the phone and fax number of the Asymetrix Corporation. I am also interested in their e-mail address. I would also like to know what the current status of their product Toolbook is. I received the last update 1.5 about 1.5 year ago. Are their any new developments or is Toolbook slowly dying? Regards, Rob de Winter.
Well, it looks like I'm F*cked for insurance. I had a DWI in 91 and for the beemer, as a rec. vehicle, it'll cost me almost $1200 bucks to insure/year. Now what do I do? (I could probably just sell the bike and return my DoD number,... )
No need to correct it, it stands as it is said. You miss the point entirely. Things defined by contradictory language do not exist. Though something existing might be meant, conclusions drawn from the description are wrong, unless there is the possibility to find the described, and draw conclusions from direct knowledge of the described then. Another possibility is to drop the contradictory part, but that implies that one can trust the concept as presented and that one has not got to doubt the source of it as well. Neither am I. But either things are directly sensed (which includes some form of modelling, by the way) or they are used in modelling. Using something contradictive in modelling is not approved of. Wonder why?
I've been to three talks in the last month which might be of interest. I've transcribed some of my notes below. Since my note taking ability is by no means infallible, please assume that all factual errors are mine. Permission is granted to copy this without restriction. Michael Sternberg, Cheif of Operations of RIMSAT, was invited to speak at an informal lunch held by ACDIS here on the campus of the University of Illinois. ACDIS is an organization on campus that deals with Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security. RIMSAT was considered an appropriate topic because the company is using Russian launchers and satellites. I think it also helped that his daughter is a grad student in the International Relations program. The concept behind RIMSAT apparently began when Matt Neilson (?) went to Tonga to visit a friend. While he was there, he somehow ended up visiting the king, who happened to be a big TV fan. Matt bought the King a satellite dish, which the king thought was really nifty. Since Tonga has a GNP of about $70 million, His Majesty asked if there was any way to make money off this. Matt thought there probably was, so at his suggestion, Tonga applied for 31 geosynchronous satellite slots. While this isn't entirely off the wall, it was very unusual, seeing as Tonga was a tiny kingdom with no space program, and 31 is a lot of slots. The whole thing was debated in the appropriate regulatory agency and Carl Hilliard (who is apparently a respected space lawyer) wrote several opinions supporting Tonga's case. Eventually Tonga ended up with 7 slots, ranging from 70 E to 170 E (slots are designated by the longitude over which they reside). According to Sternberg, four of these, from 130 E to 142 E are the best in the world because they are excellently placed for communications between Hawaii and the Pacific Rim. RIMSAT was formed to use these slots. It was officially formed in Nevis as a tax haven. They tried for a few years to raise funds in the west, however, to fill 7 slots with western satellites launched on western launchers would have cost approximately $2 billion. It's not easy to raise that kind of money. Eventually, they hit upon the idea of using Russian hardware. They began negotiating with Glavkosmos for hardware. Mr Sternberg describes operating in Moscow in such harsh terms that I don't think I'll visit there for a long time. Besides a significant lack of creature comforts, he was not happy with the way that people operate. For example "everybody can sell you everything." Everyone can show the proper documents and licenses that indicate they are the only ones who have the authority to sell what ever you want to by. Eventually, RIMSAT arranged a deal with Glavkosmos for 6 satellites at a cost of $150 million. However, Glavkosmos lost favor after the coup. Sternberg says that this is because they were basically a bunch of KGB operatives who went to trade shows and picked up lots of brochures. Since Glavkosmos was out of power, he had to renegotiate the deal with the new authorities. He again described life in a Moscow hotel in rather unfavorable terms. Eventually, he worked out a deal and on Dec 4, 1992 he met with Koptev, who heads the Russian space program, to sign the deal. Koptev insisted on a few concessions before signing and according to Sternberg he arranged these new rules to allow himself to form another company to do the exact same thing as RIMSAT. The next step was to meet with the builders of the hardware, NPO Applied Mechanics -- NPO PM to use their acronym. This organization is located in Siberia (can't figure out how to spell the town, I need an atlas) and has built about 1500 vehicles since the dawn of the space age. Sternberg commented that siberians are very different from Musovites. They are hard workers, honest people who team up to get things done, very much like midwesterners. At this point there were some comments from the audience that agreed with his opinion on both siberians and midwesterners :-) Sternberg had lots of good things to say about NPO PM. His company is apparently lookng for $100 million to invest in the firm to become 50% partners.It apparently costs the Russians about $4 million to build a satellite that would sell for $50 million in the west. If you want to give them specifications, they'll build you a satellite. For the particular satellites that RIMSAT will be using, costs run about $378,000 per transponder year. This compares to $810,000 t/y in the U.S. They can sell their time for about $1.1 million compared to $2.6 million in the U.S. RIMSAT will launch their satellites on Protons. To get the best prices, they bought in bulk. They have the rights to twelve launches, so if any of you need a lift I can give you their address. The first launch is scheduled for October and they are getting one used satellite from the Russians, which is being moved into place now. Tidbits: * Sternberg says this kind of thing has to be done by entrepreneurs, not big business because big business is just like what they have over there, except that "we have better paper, both in the bathroom and in the copier." * Russian launches are self insured. The promise to replace a failed launch within 9 months. * Major investors in RIMSAT include Russell 20/20, which is a huge retirement fund organization, Cellsat, which is a big telecom business in southeast Asia, and a fund operated by some of the big names in U.S aerospace which he says is sort of an insurance policy for them if this really takes off. * He downplayed the instabilites in the ex-USSR saying that we are worried partly because we aren't used to seeing Russia as anything but an unvarying monolith. Italy gets a new government "every two weeks" but we don't worry because we're used to it. He predicted that once we get used to seeing what really goes on in Russia we won't worry about their stability as much. * Part of the problem with cooperative ventures is the problem of transfering money. The central bank has a policy of taking hard currency payments, putting 25% in their coffers and replacing the rest with the "equivalent" value in rubles. To get around this, RIMSAT pays their hard currency into an Austrian bank account. NPO PM then pays their contractors with foreign currency so that the only the contractors get swindled by the government. * One of the big problems RIMSAT has had is stonewalling by the western satellite industry. However, Intelsat recently bought three of the same type of satellites, which was rather reassuring. * The biggest worry most people have about russian satellites is the primitive technology and shorter lifetime. The older Gorizont (Horizon) satellites have a lifetime of about 5 years, while the more modern Express satellites compare well with western technology and last about 8 years. While this is much shorter than 15 years for western satellites, Sternberg downplayed the difference. At these prices they can afford to launch new ones. In addition, shorter lifetimes mean that they can replace their equipment with newer technology so they will be able to compete better than older, out of date hardware.
Atoms are not objective. They aren't even real. What scientists call an atom is nothing more than a mathematical model that describes certain physical, observable properties of our surroundings. All of which is subjective. What is objective, though, is the approach a scientist takes in discussing his model and his observations. There is no objective science. But there is an objective approach which is subjectively selected by the scientist. Objective in this case means a specified, unchanging set of rules that he and his colleagues use to discuss their science. This is in contrast to your Objective Morality. There may be an objective approach to subjectively discuss your beliefs on morality. But there exists no objective morality. Also, science deals with how we can discuss our observations of the physical world around us. In that the method of discussion is objective ( not the science; not the discussion itself ). Science makes no claims to know the whys or even the hows sometimes of what we can observe. It simply gives us a way to discuss our surroundings in a meaningful, consistent way. I think it was Neils Bohr who said (to paraphrase) Science is what we can _say_ about the physical world.
Not true. Dial 811 and listen to the recording. If you get it, then your phone was recognized by the network. You wouldn't be able to dial a real number yet (of course!) =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= Mark Bramwell, VE3PZR Located in sunny London, Ontario
I don't think Primeau is necessarily a bad pick...I'm was just trying to locate the beginning of Murray's decisions...he slowness in trading Carson has delayed Primeau's development...and you have to wait longer for big players often...and Primeau can be a very good player without being a point-a-game-player, especially on a team that has Yzerman and Fedorov...if Primeau becomes Joel Otto, and gets 20 goals a season, and plays mean...it will have been an extremely good pick.
After reading the first paragraph, a quick scan confirmed my first impression: this is a bunch of revisionist and anti-semitic hogwash. The NY Times reported on April 18, 1993 that the museum "was built through private contributions on Federal land". Your hate-mongering article is devoid of current and historical fact, intellectual content and social value. Down the toilet it goes.....
I don't know about everybody else, but to me, they should have been convicted BECAUSE of the evidence, which in my mind was quite sufficient.
They tried their best not to show it, believe me. I'm surprised they couldn't find a sprint car race (mini cars through pigpens, indeed!) on short notice. George
During the Detroit game Mon night there were octopus thrown on the ice what is the meaning or symbolism here? They used to throw fish on the ice here in Spokane afew years ago. I never knew where this came from.
I have received my copies of Cosmonautics 1990 and Cosmonautics 1991, as well as Soviet Space 1990 and Space Station [MIR] Handbook from Aerospace Ambassadors with no problem. I'm getting ready to FAX them some material in Huntsville, and I'll include a printout of your inquiry. ____________________________________________________________
Hello,
It would depend on the requirements of the poster's data, for some purposes 1/256 resolution (with or without calibration curve). Otherwise the other possibilities would be: 1) get a digital voltameter with serial output & connect to serial port on mac, collect data with some communications program. 2) Buy an A/D chip from Analog devices, Burr-Brown, etc, connect to a parallel to serial converter, use serial port for acquisition (nah. too much soldering and trouble shooting :-) 3) Get a board from National Instruments, Data Translation, Omega, etal. The finest solution, but possibly the most costly. To the original poster: if the signal is too large, why not use a voltage divider? Two resistors, cost very cheap... --
Sort of a "Mrs. O'Leary's" tank theory? Moooo.
For the first Move incident (no bomb, several members killed in gunfire, circa 1978) the mayor was the very white Frank Rizzo. For the second (bomb included) the mayor was Wilson Goode, who is indeed black.
[...] [...] I was a cryptologic tech in the US Navy (CTRSN, nothing big). All 'spooks' in the Navy are required to know the "gist" of "USSID 18", the Navy-way of naming a particular Presidential "Executive Order". It outlines what spooks can and can't do with respect to the privacy of US nationals. The following information is (of course) UNCLASSIFIED. The whole issue hangs about what you mean by "wiretap". If the signal can be detected by "non-intrusive" means (like radio listening), then it may be recorded and it may be "analyzed". "Analyzed" means that it may be either deciphered and/or radio-location may be used to locate the transmitter. The catch is this: Any and all record of the signal and its derivatives may only be kept for a maximum of 90 days, after which they are destroyed unless permission is obtained from the US Attorney General to keep them. Didn't you ever wonder how Coast Guard cutters *find* those drug-runners in all those tens of thousands of square miles of sea, even in the dark?!?
This is the second post which seems to be blurring the distinction between real disease caused by Candida albicans and the "disease" that was being asked about, systemic yeast syndrome. There is no question that Candida albicans causes thrush. It also seems to be the case that active yogurt cultures with acidophilous may reduce recurrences of thrush at least for vaginal thrush -- I've never heard of anyone taking it for oral thrush before (though presumably it would work by the same mechanism). Candida is clearly a common minor pathogen and a less common major pathogen. That does not mean that there is evidence that it causes the "systemic yeast syndrome".
[horror story about FBI ruining a guy's life for the hell of it omitted] So, is this a real story or a work of fiction? How about some sources? When, where, and in what newspaper did you get all this from? Or is it all hypothetical?
Being a proud BU alumnus, I'd like to get a list of BU players in the NHL so I can keep an eye on their progress. A lot of Terriers are graduating this year so I hope to see them soon in the NHL. If somebody could post or send me a list, I'd appreciate it. Please note if the player graduated from here or not.
Well, this particular thread of vituperation slopped its venom over into alt.atheism, where we spend most of our time entertaining arguments against our belief system, without resorting to accusing others of bigotry. It's somewhat ironic that our exposure to bigotry happens in this instance to have originated in rec.scouting, since I always understood scouting to teach tolerance and diversity. I understand bigotry to be irrational prejudice against other people who happen to be of a different race, religion, ethnic background, sex, or other inconsequential characteristics. All the evidence I've seen indicates that sexual orientation and lack of belief in gods are exactly such inconsequential characteristics. Thus, pending further evidence, I conclude that those who show prejudice against such people are bigots, and organizations that exclude such people are discriminatory.
The lengthy article you quote doesn't imply this. It only states that it is somehow POSSIBLE, not that it is in any way likely. This is akin to an article saying that it is POSSIBLE that the USAF has several captured UFOs, without supporting the liklihood of such an assertion. In other words, they were telling a pesky reporter to keep guessing. Israel maintains this same attitude about nuclear weapons it may or may not have. The US maintains the same attitude about the presence of nuclear weapons on specific naval craft. By refusing to acknowledge the existence of such weapons on specific ships, US warships have, I believe, become unwelcome in New Zealand, which has declared itself a nuclear-free-zone. The USAF has never officially admitted to having any UFOs, either. This is stated as a fact without supporting evidence. It would've been more convincing if your reporter had come up with just one name of someone who is sitting in jail, lost to the world, as he suggests. Maybe Elvis, or JFK, somebody. Let's put it this way: If Israel has put people away without publicizing their arrests or the legal proceedings against them, how has their disappearance been explained? People have relatives, friends and colleagues, you know. Israel is not known as a place where people are made to vanish. Would you care to give us a list of people whose whereabouts are unknown? People who are presumed to be imprisoned? This whole conspiracy story isn't something that we've come to associate with Yigal Arens before. Perhaps from now on, we should.
That's nice, but it doesn't answer the question. There is a difference between "the feds can mandate literacy" and "the feds can't interfere with literacy/book possession". Actually, the Miller court did nothing of the kind. It remanded the case back to the trial court because the miller court didn't know if the weapon in question was a militia weapon. (Doesn't it bother anyone that a major constitutional issue was taken up in a case where there was no defense? Miller had been released by the appeals court and disappeared - only the govt was represented.) We don't know what would have happened with the reasonable "all guns are militia weapons" argument. -andy
It also runs OS/2 character based apps and POSIX apps. The DOS, 16bit and 32 bit windows apps run in a windows 32 bit subsystem. If you consider the fact that NT has: the Lanman redirectors, built in support for TCP/IP built in support for NETBEUI comes with TCP utils like ping and an ftp client, etc applications like schedule+ and a 32 bit version of msmail the storage argument isnt an issue. I ran it on a 486 with 8MRAM and it did a ton of disk swapping, with a 19M virtual memory paging file. It functioned but it crawled. (this was the OCT build) I upgraded the machine to 16M and the performance is good, At that point I installed the March Build. Consider they are probably still working on the feature set, and havent done a lot of fine tuning to the code yet. I have little info on Chicago so I cant make a comparison. Is it in Beta? Is there anyone out there who has tested both and cares to make a comparison? Just my $0.02
Is the so-called material world "outside" the Kingdom of God? Aha, animals are inferior, and humans are superior. Huh? [Isn't the desire to be superior so "overwhelming?"] [that humans constantly "put down" even innocent animals.] ---raj
I can't think of another subject that generates as much contradictory advice as traffic laws and their enforcement. Everybody's got an opinion and is dead certain they are right. Yet acurate information is extremely difficult to come by. The DMV doesn't know. Cops don't know. Your traffic school instructor doesn't know. The vehicle code only tells part of the story. Judges choose to interpret the laws in a wide variety of ways. And the public at large? I seldom hear any advice that doesn't disagree with something I've experienced. If you don't believe me I suggest you get a copy of the vehicle code, study it, and then sit in on a day or two of court and see what really happens. Read "Fight Your Ticket" too, but don't miss the little section at the end where it says your chances are lousy and you're basically screwed. As you may have guessed, I'm pretty down on the system here in California. I've carefully prepared for court, bringing witnesses and revealing serious holes in the officer's story, only to be slapped with the maximum allowable fine (plus assessments of over 100%) - the message clear that the judge does not appreciate John Q Public trying his own cases. So here's my advice when you find yourself with a ticket: Take traffic school if you can. If it's a serious matter get a lawyer. A lawyer can present the exact same case as you, the difference is the sentence.
I am looking for a monitor 17" or larger that could do 1024x748 with and 8514/A card (PS2/70) I guess I would prefere 19" and MONO (later becuase of lower price) Please email me the brand, model, condition and asking price...
I don't know if this is the sort of thing you guys like to discuss. I guess it falls into the area of apologetics. This is a question that seems to pop up now and again in conversations with non-christians. It usually appears in the following sort of unqualified statement: "Well you know that religion has caused more wars than anything else" It bothers me that I cannot seem to find a satisfactory response to this. After all if our religion is all about peace and love why have there been so many religious wars? Personally I am of the view that religion has often been used as an excuse to instigate wars often to disguise national ambitions but I would love to hear what anyone else has to say about this subject. Thanks in advance Andrew J Fraser (If we're thinking in terms of history, the Crusades, Northern Ireland, Yugoslavia(?) come immediately to mind) northern Ireland, Yugoslavia (? -- =========================================================================
Koresh had a lawyer, Deguin(?) who he spoke to in person several times during the last few weeks. This strikes me as a tad ingenous. "If X had done/note done Y, then Z would never have happened." I tend to place tha responsibility on the group/person actually committing the act, not on those whon "forced them to do it". After all, to take an extreme example, if the British were not in Northern Ireland, the IRA would not be forced to place bombs in shopping centers. That said, this whole sorry story was a totally unecessary, utterly fucked up mess from the get go. semper fi,
^^^^^^^ Ooops...that should read Selke...forgive me for my insolence. congenially, as always, jd -- James David j3david@student.business.uwo.ca
I have just a few quick questions. Does anyone here have a 486 DLC system? (a Cyrix 486 DX) Any problems with it? Second, how much should a Cyric 486DLC-33 motherboard (with no RAM) run me? 3rd...Should a total amatuer (like myslef) be able to perform a motherboard swap without the aid of a technician, or is it beyond hope? 4th...I hear that some (if not all) hard drives may require reformatting if you switch them to another computer (or motherboard as the case may be). Is there any truth to this?
Oh, *really*??? I know that when working in Alberta, Ontario and Quebec, I was aware that I was paying for health insurance - e.g., in Toronto, OHIP fees were listed seperately on my pay stub. While I'm not the only Canadian who favours lower taxes and cutbacks in spending, health insurance isn't on the table. See our polls ... A better one might be the July 1st polls conducted for Macleans (our major English newsmagazine) by Decima Research ... Decima president Allen Gregg is considered one of the world's top poll researchers, and Mulroney's Conservatives have relied on him to keep in power in the face of impossible election situations. I haven't had a chance to see this year's version due to our library, but previous ones before the Americans started their assault and disinformation had shown satisfaction at 97% and switching to an American all-private system had support within statistical noise. The Decima polls are considered definitive. Even the new Reform Party, a breakoff of traditionalists from the Conservatives with a mildly "libertarian" faction, hold our public health insurance as an untouchable but that just a few people have to be reminded that it's not free (the average Canadian/European is more fiscally naive than their American counterparts on issues like these). Personally, I feel that the universal health insurance approach used in Canada, France and Germany -- paying to private health providers in a nominally free market not unlike America's, minus HMO's -- depends a lot on values in those societies different from the U.S. The basic health needs for life are not viewed as market, but the insurance does allow the market to address that -- basic health care is not viewed on the level of ownership of a VCR as Americans would see it. Plenty of room is left for expenditure of private funds as extra insurance or as Please explain this one, hopefully in a way that Canadian readers besides myself can understand and concur ... gld
Hi... I'm not a religious guy so dont take this as some kinda flame (thanx in advance) I want to know why there are so many different versions of the bible? There "....contains inaccurate data and inconsistencies." Thanx in advance... Shaz.... [I'm not sure quite what you mean by many different versions. The primary distinction in versions you see today is in the style of the translation. It's pretty unusual to see significant differences in meaning. There are a few differences in the underlying text. That's because before printing, manuscripts were copied by hand. Slight differences resulted. There are enough manuscripts around that scholars can do a pretty good job of recreating the original, but there are some uncertainties. Fortunately, they are generally at the level of minor differences in wording. There are something like 3 or 4 places where whole sentences are involved, but with recent discoveries of older manuscripts, I don't think there's much uncertainly about those cases. As far as I know, no Christians believe that the process of copying manuscripts or the process of translating is free of error. But I also don't think there's enough uncertainty in establishing the text or translating it that it has much practical effect. Whether the Bible contains inaccurate data and inconsistences is a hot topic of debate here. Many Christians deny it. Some accept it (though most would say that the inaccuracies involved are on details that don't affect the faith). But this has nothing to do with there being multiple versions. The supposed inconsistences can be found in all the versions. I'm surprised to find a reference to this on the title page though. What version are you talking about? I've been referring to major scholarly translations. These are what get referenced in postings here and elsewhere. There have certainly been editions that are (to be kind) less widely accepted. This includes everything from reconstructions that combine parallel accounts into single narrations, to editions that omit material that the editor objects to for some reason or the other. The copyright on the Bible has long since expired, so there nothing to stop people from making editions that do whatever wierd thing they want. However the editions that are widely used are carefully prepared by groups of scholars from a variety of backgrounds, with lots of crosschecks. I could imagine one of the lesser-known editions claiming to have fixed up all inaccurate data and inconsistencies. But if so, it's not any edition that's widely used. The widely used ones leave the text as is. (Weeeeelllllll, almost as is. It's been alleged that a few translations have fudged a word or two here and there to minimize inconsistencies. Because translation is not an exact science, there are always going to be differences in opinion over which word is best, I'm afraid.)
I've just read Richard Langley's latest "Navstar GPS Constellation Status". It states that the latest satellite was placed in Orbit Plane Position C-3. There is already one satellite in that position. I know that it's almost ten years since that satellite was launched but it's still in operation so why not use it until it goes off? Why not instead place the new satellite at B-4 since that position is empty and by this measure have an almost complete GPS-constellation (23 out of 24)? /Thomas ================================================================================ Ericsson Telecom, Stockholm, Sweden
Yo, did anybody see this run of HARD COPY? I guy on a 600 Katana got pulled over by the Police (I guess for speeding or something). But just as the cop was about to step out of the car, the dude punches it down an interstate in Georgia. Ang then, the cop gives chase. Now this was an interesting episode because it was all videotaped!!! Everything from the dramatic takeoff and 135mph chase to the sidestreet battle at about 100mph. What happened at the end? The guy (who is being relentless chased down box the cage with the disco lights) slows a couple of times to taunt the cop. After blowing a few stop signs and making car jump to the side, he goes up a dead end street. The Kat, although not the latest machine, is still a high performance machine and he slams on the brakes. Of couse, we all know that cages, especially the ones with the disco lights, can't stop as fast as our high performance machines. So what happens?... The cage plows into the Kat. Luckily for this dude, he was wearing a helmet and was not hurt. But dude, how crazy can you get!?! Yeah, we've all went out and played cat and mouse with our friends but, with a cop!!???!!! How crazy can you get!?!?! It took just one look at a ZX-7 who tried this crap to convince me not to try any shit like that. (Although the dude collided with a car head on at 140 mph, the Kawasaki team colors still looked good!!! Just a few scratches, like no front end.... 3 inch long engine and other "minor" scratches...) If you guys are out there, please, slow it down. I not being an advocate for the cages (especially the ones that make that annoying ass noises...), but just think... The next time you punched it (whether you have an all mighty ZX-11 or a "I can do it" 250 Ninja), just remember, a kid could step out at any time. Peace & ride (kinda) safe. Warren -- "Have Suzuki, Will travel..." WCD82671@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
Why must it be a US Government Space Launch Pad? Directly I mean.. I know of a few that could launch a small package into space. Not including Ariadne, and the Russian Sites.. I know "Poker Flats" here in Alaska, thou used to be only sounding rockets for Auroral Borealous(sp and other northern atmospheric items, is at last I heard being upgraded to be able to put sattelites into orbit. Why must people in the US be fixed on using NASAs direct resources (Poker Flats is runin part by NASA, but also by the Univesity of Alaska, and the Geophysical Institute). Sounds like typical US cultural centralism and protectionism.. And people wonder why we have the multi-trillion dollar deficite(sp). Yes, I am working on a spell checker..
Freedom of speech does not mean that others are compelled to give one the means to speak publicly. Some systems have regulations prohibiting the dissemination of racist and bigoted messages from accounts they issue. Apparently, that's not the case with virginia.edu, since you are still posting.
Today I recieved a in-warranty replacement for my Diamond Speedstar 24X. On the card I've noticed a few changes; mostly there is a new jumper labeled JP5. (The card is revision 5A) My detective work has shown that this jumper simply connects/disconnects the BALE line on the 64-pin part of the ISA bus. The question I have is simple: To those people who own this revision of the Speedstar 24X, what does the manual claim that this jumper does? To anyone with an ISA-reference, what is the function of the BALE line? On a related note: Are there any FTP sites which contain a descriptive reference to the ISA bus? My motherboard manual has a simple pin-to-signal-name chart, but that is it. -Douglas
Well, there is a fair amount of evidence floating around that indicates that OTO has been around since at least the late 1800s, long before Crowley ever heard of it, how long has AMORC been around? (yes, I know that they claim to have existed as an organization clear into prehistory, but I doubt that they have any organizational paperwork as a non-profit that can be carbon-dated to 20,000 BC) A.Lizard
I see no difference between Janet Reno's claim of responsibility for the Waco Massacre and the IRA's claims of responsibility for various acts of terrorism against British citizens. -- Dave Feustel N9MYI <feustel@netcom.com>
Glad to see Griffin is spending his time on engineering rather than on ritual purification of the language. Pity he got stuck with the turkey rather than one of the sensible options.
Paraphrase of initial post: Can I fight a speeding ticket in court? My reply: Fight your ticket : California edition by David Brown 1st ed. Berkeley, CA : Nolo Press, 1982 The second edition is out (but not in UCB's library). Good luck; let us know how it goes.
I am looking for Super 8mm Projector with SOUNDS. If anybody out there has one for sale, send email with the name of brand, condition of the projector, and price for sale to kimd@rpi.edu (IT MUST HAVE SOUND CAPABILITY)
Well, I could use the argument that some here use about "nature" and claim that you cannot have superhuman powers because you are a human; superhuman powers are beyond what a human has, and since you are a human, any powers you have are not beyond those of a human. Hence, you cannot have superhuman powers. Sound good to you? Anyway, to the evidence question: it depends on the context. In this group, since you are posting from a american college site, I'm willing to take it as given that you have a pair of blue jeans. And, assuming there is some coherency in your position, I will take it as a given that you do not have superhuman powers. Arguments are evidence in themselves, in some respects. Yep. Good. "Extra" evidence? Why don't we start with evidence at all? I cannot see any evidence for the V. B. which the cynics in this group would ever accept. As for the second, it is the foundation of the religion. Anyone who claims to have seen the risen Jesus (back in the 40 day period) is a believer, and therefore is discounted by those in this group; since these are all ancients anyway, one again to choose to dismiss the whole thing. The third is as much a metaphysical relationship as anything else-- even those who agree to it have argued at length over what it *means*, so again I don't see how evidence is possible. I thus interpret the "extraordinary claims" claim as a statement that the speaker will not accept *any* evidence on the matter.
Definitely, J.R. "Bob" Dobbs, numero uno, top dog, not one can touch, not one can knock Bob out of the box. Bob kills me mon! Everyday! But close El Segundo (el subliminal) is the infamous Paul (birthname Saul) the Evangeline who became famous as a result of his numerous trampoline act tours of the eastern Mediterranean.
or there Okay, I guess its time for a quick explanation of Mac sound. The original documentation for the sound hardware (IM-3) documents how to make sound by directly accessing hardware. Basically, you jam values into all the even bytes from SoundBase to SoundBase+0x170. This was because of how the Mac 128 (and some later machines) generated sound was by scanning this block and D/Aing every even byte (the odd bytes went to the floppy on some machines). When the Mac II (and Apple Sound Chip) was invented, it was designed to generate stereo sound. It was also designed to be compatible with we had once documented. So storing bytes at the even values at SoundBase meant "I want to play a mono sound" and so it was emulated. But Apple had since retracted the documentation on SoundBase and decided not to document the lowest layers of sound generation. So apple never explained where to stuff bytes if you want to make stereo sound. Enter game developers. The sound driver and current sound manager are inconveniently lame for making games. Furthermore, people who port from the IBM don't want to learn more APIs. So, it has become popular for game writers to write to SoundBase to make sound, since it is very easy. Since the Mac II, Apple has had many different kind of sound output hardware, and the only things they have in common are that writing to SoundBase works. On some hardware, (Mac II, IIx, IIcx, IIci at least), writing to SoundBase gets you mono sound through both speakers. On some Macs (Quadra 700/900/950 at least) writing to SoundBase gets you mono sound on the left channel only. Both are technically correct interpretations of the original specification, but one is obviously preferable for asthetic reasons. If developers use the Sound Manager (and I think the sound driver), mono sounds will (typically) come out through both channels regardless of the underlying hardware. It is possible to specify you want to generate left channel only, but no one does. If developers write to sound base, their games will only come out the left on some games. The other problem, the original Mac II only producing left channel sound on the internal speaker, while the SE/30 mixes both, isn't really related. It is due to the post generation amplification used on the motherboards of the different machines. It only affects true stereo sounds. Sounds which are actually mono, will play on the internal speaker, no matter what machine you have. Now, to more directly address the question, the games you list: and also Hellcats, Super Tetris Oxyd (and many more, these are just what I've tested) Cheat and write to SoundBase and so are only left channel on Quadras. Other games you list: and also PGA Tour Golf Civilization (and more, these are again only from personal experience) Use the sound manager and work fine on all machines. The more of the story is to developers: DON'T CHEAT! Really, I am absolutely, positively not allowed to do what I am about to do, but I'm going say it anyway. Stop cheating on sound! Really soon, you will be sorry, as even those without external speakers will be disappointed with your sound on future hardware. The grace period is about to end. The Sound Manager is understandable now, and works pretty well and will work even better soon, so use it. In conclusion: To Doug, it isn't a hardware problem, at least, not a bug. To Jon, it isn't a choice to developers as to whether they want to send sound to both channels. If they do it the right way, it is taken care of automatically. If you cheat, there is not way to make it work on all hardware. Have fun. Disclaimer number 1: I don't work on sound here at Apple, I'm just pretty well informed. So don't write me with sound questions. Disclaimer number 2: If it says up above that I wrote anything like "the grace period is about to end" then it is a bug in your news feed, since I am catagorically not allowed to say anything like that. You know what I mean. Disclaimer number 3: I don't speak for Apple, just me.
Are you sure you're running in 386-enhanced mode? (Windows 3.1 takes more memory...)
NMM>From: nielsmm@imv.aau.dk (Niels Mikkel Michelsen) NMM>Subject: How to act in front of traffic jerks NMM>The other day, it was raining cats and dogs, therefor I was going only to NMM>the speed limit, on nothing more, on my bike. This guy in his BMW was NMM>driving 1-2 meters behind me for 7-800 meters and at the next red light I NMM>calmly put the bike on its leg, walked back to this car, he rolled down the NMM>window, and I told him he was a total idiot (and the reason why). NMM>Did I do the right thing? NMM>Yours Truly : NMM> Niels Mikkel Well, sounds great to me! When I have a real BDI cager tailgating me, I've found that an effective strategy is to flash my brake light by pumping the pedal. You will, obviously need a bit of free play in your brake pedal to do this. It seems that even the most brain dead idiot can usually discern that a flashing red light directly in front of him/her/it may mean that something is wrong. The two problems I'd see with your strategy is that the red light may change before you can get anything meaningful out of your mouth, or the occupant(s) may take exception to your opinions and demonstrate such physically (on you or your now-parked bike). Admittedly, the latter is a slim chance, but it would be enough to give me pause. * SLMR 2.1a * sometimes you get to be the windshield, sometimes the bug
Mexico City, Bogota, La Paz? --- An unconventional remedy that you might try for altitude sickness in the Andes is chewing coca leaves or taking teas made from coca leaves. You might notice that many of the natives have wads in their mouths... the tea can be obtained in S. American pharmacies. This remedy alleviates some of the lightheadedness and dizziness - but don't try to jog with it. I've tried this when travelling and hiking in Peru and Ecuador. The amount of cocaine you would ingest are too minute to cause any highs...
Continuously, on this forum, and on the street, you find quite a difference between the opinions of what motorcycling is to different individuals. Cruiser-bike riders have a different view of motorcycling than those of sport bike riders (what they like and dislike about motorcycling). This is not closed-minded. To NOT RECOGNIZE this, is in effect, close-minded. I scan it for information, a lot of it is NOISE and pointless flame-age. (it's why I used trn, instead of rn) If you have a problem with that, I'm really sorry for you.. -- => Dan DeClerck | EMAIL: declrckd@rtsg.mot.com <= => Motorola Cellular APD | <= =>"Friends don't let friends wear neon"| Phone: (708) 632-4596 <=
For sale -------- STR-AV1070 Audio Receiver ------------------------- 120 Watts per channel Dolby Surround sound with Pro Logic Learning Programmable remote 10 Watts per channel for surround sound Supports Dual Room Link Control (to hear another source in a different room) Index filing of all radio stations 7 band equilizer with real-time analyzer I need to get $450 for this unit or best offer. CDP-C910 Sony ten disc changer ------------------------------ Ten disc cartridge Custom File of your favorite program or title or volume for each disc (Up to 184 disc memory!) Remote control Fixed and Variable volume outputs Optical output 8x Oversampling rate $325 firm. I purchased these items about 6 months ago and need to sell them now to buy a house. Both units are in immaculate shape and are priced to move.
I have a problem with the battery on my '83 Honda CB650 NightHawk. Every week or so it is dead and I have to recharge it. I ride the bike every day, the battery is new and the charging system was checked thoroughly and it seems fine. My suspicion is that it is draining somewhere. Do you have any idea about what is causing this problem? Please help since my mechanic and me are clueless!...
If the tire has a leak you should fix it. Doesn't work too well if the engine is hot, its more accurate to check the oil when the engine is cool, i.e. not when you are at a gas station.
From: Marc VanHeyningen <mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu> The majority of the discussion involving this "Clipper Chip" seems to pertain to the encryption of telephone conversations. Does anyone know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with analog signals? The language sort of suggests this, but it's hard to say. I'd lay a few bucks that its just data-in-data-out in parallel. I suspect to make it a phone you'd need a codec and speech compression. There would be a loss of bandwidth on the speech signal, which I suspect would scupper any of the suggestions I've seen here about putting a different encryption front end on it. There's no hint of any modulation scheme in the docs. I'm sure it's purely a digital chip. The back end will come later, but I'm *positive* it won't be left to the manufacturers - they all have to be the same modulation scheme to make it easy for the NSA to tap them. The only other possibility is that this is intended only for ISDN phones. (Puts a whole new spin on EFFs obsession about ISDN if true, bwahahaha! ;-) )
Mark Prado Old pioneer song from the 1850's or so goes as follows: "In a cavern, in a canyon, Excavating for a mine, Dwelt a miner, forty-niner, And his daughter, CLEMENTINE" Chorus: "Oh my darling, Oh my darling, Oh my darling Clementine. You are lost and gone forever, Oh my darling Clementine." I've also had it explained (but not confirmed from a reliable data source) that CLEMENTINE is an acronym. Something like Combined Lunar Elemental Mapper Experiment on Extended Non Terrestrial Intercept Near Earth. Personally, I think that acronym was made up to fit the name (if it really is an acronym). ------------------------------------------------------------------ Wales Larrison Space Technology Investor
/(emery) /The one single historic event that has had the biggest impact on the /world over the centuries is the resurrection of Jesus. This is hardly possible, as the majority of people in the world were born, lived their life, and died, without ever knowing anything about Christ. The majority of the rest of the world have decided that he is not who Emery thinks he is. /(emery) /Why were the writers of the New Testament documents so convinced that /Jesus really did rise from the dead? /We have four gospel accounts. I am leaving out all "proofs" of Emery's which rely on quoting the bible as proof. Circular reasoning, etc. There have been occasions already stated many times for later generations of Xtians to change, edit, or otherwise alter the bible to fit their political gospel. And if we accept the bible as true just because the bible says it is true, then (to be fair) we have to do the same to the Bhagavad-Gita and the Koran, both of which contradict the bible. Enough said. /(emery) /Yet we have no reason to believe these disciples to be immoral and dishonest. /We have no historic information that would lead us to the conclusion that /these people were not God-fearing people who sincerely and whole-heartedly /believed that the resurrection of their Lord Jesus was a real event. /And for what gain would they lie? To make a stand at that time meant /persecution, imprisonment, and perhaps even death. Again, this is only the biblical account and there is no independent proof of any of this happening. It just isn't there. Besides, simply being sincere or willing to die for your faith does not make your faith correct. There are Muslims dying in Bosnia right now; does the fact that they are willing to die for Islam mean that Islam is the correct religion? (emery) /History bears out the persecution of Christians. Roman historian, Cornelius /Tacitus, Govenor of Asia, in A.D. 112, writing of Nero's reign, alluded to /the torture of Christians in Rome: All you have proven is that these people were tortured for their faith. That does not prove that their faith is true or correct; it just means that they were sincere in their beliefs. Being willing to die for what you believe doesn't make your belief the truth. It's not that easy. And minority religions have always suffered torture; Muslims suffer torture and harassment in India and Bosnia today. All religions are harassed in China today. You haven't proven anything so far. /(emery) /With all the suffering and persecution that it meant to be a believer, it /would be quite probable that at least one of those in the supposed conspiracy /would come forward and confess that the whole thing was a big hoax. Not if they didn't believe that it was a hoax. /(emery) /Yet not one did. It seems rather reasonable that the disciples did not make /up the resurrection but sincerely believed that Jesus had actually risen /from the dead; especially in light of the sufferings that came upon those /who believed. The followers of Muhammad firmly believed in the miracles that the Koran says Muhammad performed. They were attacked and slaughtered for their beliefs. They didn't denounce Muhammad or Islam. If you are correct, then that means Islam is the true faith.
the classic references in this area are Jacques Ellul for a liberal/evangelical perspective and Os Guiness for a straight evangelical view. If you want to look at non-christian sources try Alvin Toffler as the perennial optimist. His views while blatently non christian explore where technology may be going. This is regardless of technology. Be careful to separate the issues of related to speed and dispersion of technology (how far the letter went and how quickly it got there) and the message being passed in the technology (something that seems to be totally wrong.) When lecturing in this area I challenge my (non-christan/atheistic) class about the impact technology has on life, quality of life and the rights that they consider important. Depending on how you work out your faith will determine your response to the use of technology. For example friends of mine are considering IVF due to a life threatening situation the wife is going through; when it is over they will have the baby. (God willing). In this case the technology is available and my friends have to decide what to do. In all cases though you must decide if the technology is against God's revealed word. Regards David
So if this study is proved wrong then it proves that heterosexuals are liars? Unlike the propaganda spouted by the far right the ten percent figure was backed up by the best study available at the time. Its hardly certain that this new study is correct since it hasn't even been out for enough time for any double checking to happen. Of course if they had found 10% then it would be invalid because it was funded by planned parenthood :) Even if its "only" one million the point still stands. Even getting 1/6th of a given population in one place would be unprecidented. If even 1 million show up in DC it will raise serious doubts about this study, or indicate a resolve unprecidented in human history. He isn't the target of the march, nor do presidents often speak at civil rights marchs (of course it would have been nice). However the republicans and conservative democrats would do well to take notice. This is quite amusing. Obviously you know nothing about the history of math.
I agree, which is why I've asked for help with it. The reason I'm working on this list is because I've recently had one too many Christians tell me "the Bible contains no contradictions whatsoever." They believe that it's true, and that it describes reality perfectly, and even predicts history before it happens. Before I can carry on any sort of meaningful conversation with these people, I've got to SHOW them, with concrete evidence, that the Bible is not nearly as airtight as they thought. I hope to do that with this list. Specifically: when I bring up the fact that Genesis contains two contradictory creation stories, I usually get blank stares or flat denials. I've never had a fundamentalist acknowledge that there are indeed two different accounts of creation.
Probably not--he's just singing someone else's opera. He's good, too; perhaps he should get "The Best Supporting Singer..." I can give you a Q/A account that is well documented (just go back and reread some of the articles that appeared after this "joke"): Q: How many antisemites does it take to come up with another anti-Israeli provocation on the net? A: Just one. He'll fabricate a lie, and many more will applaud I would much prefer if Mr. Steel would refrain from this kind of jokes in the future. They're not just offensive. They also have a very negative effect on the state of things between Jews and Arabs. So thanks for nothing, clown!
Not just because of the riflemen. They also have many hard bunkers in the mountains that would be nearly impossible to penetrate. As for tanks, they would be rather useless in such mountainous terrain. Gee, that's a new one. He thought it was a different ethnic group. Since Hitler was determined to control, at the least, all of Europe, do you think he gave a damn about international monetary concerns? Also, there's a LOT of gold in Swiss vaults. Don't you think he new that? If he could have, he would have taken Switzerland. However, crazy as he was, he wasn't totally stupid. It would have cost him a hell of a lot to take Switzerland, with no guarantee that an invasion would be successful. He probably figured (or his generals did, when he was listening to them) that it wasn't worth the cost.
That's a twin-cam, right? There's a steel guard right next to the sprocket to keep a broken chain from punching a hole in the engine cases, and it's needed. There's probably not enough room to fit a bigger sprocket. I'd be inclined to take two teeth off the rear for a 5% ratio change rather than adding one to the front for about 7%. If you raise the overall gear ratio too much you'll impair the bike's rideability, because the gears will be far enough apart that there will be only one gear that provides adequate response at any given speed. Honda 750s don't have the widest of power bands. --
Exactly. But I'll add another observation: if the chip does become a standard, the algorithm won't _remain_ secret. Leaving the government with the only remaining option: to make use of un-escrowed keys illegal. Which won't begin to bother the terrorists and child abusers the government is so fond of referring to. Note that the Federalist papers stress _one_ reason for the right of citizens to bear arms: to defend themselves _against_ the army. _Our_ army. IMHO the _primary_ purpose of private crypto is defend ourselves _against_ the government. The odd terrorist I'm not worried about; the goverment damages my quality of life every day. Rob
No, that's not how it works. This may be through a different mechanism. Tenderizing beef involves sprinking or marinading it in papain, an enzyme. "Meat tenderizer" packets might contain papain and MSG and seasonings, but MSG doesn't act as a tenderizer.
AH! But what, exactly, is "inherently abhorrent" and WHY is it so? What you're saying is, in effect, "I think some things are repulsive, and I know a whole bunch of other people who agree with me, so they should be deemed absolutely immoral now and forever, period". Which in and of itself is nice enough; to some extent I agree with you. But I do _not_ agree that things are 'inherently' or 'absolutely' immoral; they are labeled 'immoral' each for its own good reason, and if the reason can even theoretically change, then so can the label. [...] No it doesn't. Humans are to some extent similar, because we all belong to the same species; that that species has evolved is another story altogether. To a certain extent evolution can even lend credence to moral absolutism (of a flavour). [...] You're saying morality is what'll keep society alive and kicking. It is, I think, up to a point; but societies are not all alike, and neither are their moralities. Similar != identical. No, it's falsifiable through finding someoe who was "created different", whatever that might be in the "real" world.
It is not true that dermatologists gave not reached the laser age, in fact, lasers in dermatological surgery is a very new and exciting field. It probably won't be effective in tinea pedis because the laser is usually a superficial burn (to avoid any deeper damage). Limited tinea pedis can be cured albeit sometimes slowly by topical antifungals as well as systemic medication i.e. tablets. Finally, a self-diagnosis is not always reliable, lichen simplex chronicus can look like a fungal infection and requires very different treatment.
Archive-name: space/controversy Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:06 $ CONTROVERSIAL QUESTIONS These issues periodically come up with much argument and few facts being offered. The summaries below attempt to represent the position on which much of the net community has settled. Please DON'T bring them up again unless there's something truly new to be discussed. The net can't set public policy, that's what your representatives are for. WHAT HAPPENED TO THE SATURN V PLANS Despite a widespread belief to the contrary, the Saturn V blueprints have not been lost. They are kept at Marshall Space Flight Center on microfilm. The problem in re-creating the Saturn V is not finding the drawings, it is finding vendors who can supply mid-1960's vintage hardware (like guidance system components), and the fact that the launch pads and VAB have been converted to Space Shuttle use, so you have no place to launch from. By the time you redesign to accommodate available hardware and re-modify the launch pads, you may as well have started from scratch with a clean sheet design. WHY DATA FROM SPACE MISSIONS ISN'T IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE Investigators associated with NASA missions are allowed exclusive access for one year after the data is obtained in order to give them an opportunity to analyze the data and publish results without being "scooped" by people uninvolved in the mission. However, NASA frequently releases examples (in non-digital form, e.g. photos) to the public early in a mission. RISKS OF NUCLEAR (RTG) POWER SOURCES FOR SPACE PROBES There has been extensive discussion on this topic sparked by attempts to block the Galileo and Ulysses launches on grounds of the plutonium thermal sources being dangerous. Numerous studies claim that even in worst-case scenarios (shuttle explosion during launch, or accidental reentry at interplanetary velocities), the risks are extremely small. Two interesting data points are (1) The May 1968 loss of two SNAP 19B2 RTGs, which landed intact in the Pacific Ocean after a Nimbus B weather satellite failed to reach orbit. The fuel was recovered after 5 months with no release of plutonium. (2) In April 1970, the Apollo 13 lunar module reentered the atmosphere and its SNAP 27 RTG heat source, which was jettisoned, fell intact into the 20,000 feet deep Tonga Trench in the Pacific Ocean. The corrosion resistant materials of the RTG are expected to prevent release of the fuel for a period of time equal to 10 half-lives of the Pu-238 fuel or about 870 years [DOE 1980]. To make your own informed judgement, some references you may wish to pursue are: A good review of the technical facts and issues is given by Daniel Salisbury in "Radiation Risk and Planetary Exploration-- The RTG Controversy," *Planetary Report*, May-June 1987, pages 3-7. Another good article, which also reviews the events preceding Galileo's launch, "Showdown at Pad 39-B," by Robert G. Nichols, appeared in the November 1989 issue of *Ad Astra*. (Both magazines are published by pro-space organizations, the Planetary Society and the National Space Society respectively.) Gordon L Chipman, Jr., "Advanced Space Nuclear Systems" (AAS 82-261), in *Developing the Space Frontier*, edited by Albert Naumann and Grover Alexander, Univelt, 1983, p. 193-213. "Hazards from Plutonium Toxicity", by Bernard L. Cohen, Health Physics, Vol 32 (may) 1977, page 359-379. NUS Corporation, Safety Status Report for the Ulysses Mission: Risk Analysis (Book 1). Document number is NUS 5235; there is no GPO #; published Jan 31, 1990. NASA Office of Space Science and Applications, *Final Environmental Impact Statement for the Ulysses Mission (Tier 2)*, (no serial number or GPO number, but probably available from NTIS or NASA) June 1990. [DOE 1980] U.S. Department of Energy, *Transuranic Elements in the Environment*, Wayne C. Hanson, editor; DOE Document No. DOE/TIC-22800; Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., April 1980.) IMPACT OF THE SPACE SHUTTLE ON THE OZONE LAYER From time to time, claims are made that chemicals released from the Space Shuttle's Solid Rocket Boosters (SRBs) are responsible for a significant amount of damage to the ozone layer. Studies indicate that they in reality have only a minute impact, both in absolute terms and relative to other chemical sources. The remainder of this item is a response from the author of the quoted study, Charles Jackman. The atmospheric modelling study of the space shuttle effects on the stratosphere involved three independent theoretical groups, and was organized by Dr. Michael Prather, NASA/Goddard Institute for Space Studies. The three groups involved Michael Prather and Maria Garcia (NASA/GISS), Charlie Jackman and Anne Douglass (NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center), and Malcolm Ko and Dak Sze (Atmospheric and Environmental Research, Inc.). The effort was to look at the effects of the space shuttle and Titan rockets on the stratosphere. The following are the estimated sources of stratospheric chlorine: Industrial sources: 300,000,000 kilograms/year Natural sources: 75,000,000 kilograms/year Shuttle sources: 725,000 kilograms/year The shuttle source assumes 9 space shuttles and 6 Titan rockets are launched yearly. Thus the launches would add less than 0.25% to the total stratospheric chlorine sources. The effect on ozone is minimal: global yearly average total ozone would be decreased by 0.0065%. This is much less than total ozone variability associated with volcanic activity and solar flares. The influence of human-made chlorine products on ozone is computed by atmospheric model calculations to be a 1% decrease in globally averaged ozone between 1980 and 1990. The influence of the space shuttle and Titan rockets on the stratosphere is negligible. The launch schedule of the Space Shuttle and Titan rockets would need to be increased by over a factor of a hundred in order to have about the same effect on ozone as our increases in industrial halocarbons do at the present time. Theoretical results of this study have been published in _The Space Shuttle's Impact on the Stratosphere_, MJ Prather, MM Garcia, AR Douglass, CH Jackman, M.K.W. Ko and N.D. Sze, Journal of Geophysical Research, 95, 18583-18590, 1990. Charles Jackman, Atmospheric Chemistry and Dynamics Branch, Code 916, NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD 20771 Also see _Chemical Rockets and the Environment_, A McDonald, R Bennett, J Hinshaw, and M Barnes, Aerospace America, May 1991. HOW LONG CAN A HUMAN LIVE UNPROTECTED IN SPACE If you *don't* try to hold your breath, exposure to space for half a minute or so is unlikely to produce permanent injury. Holding your breath is likely to damage your lungs, something scuba divers have to watch out for when ascending, and you'll have eardrum trouble if your Eustachian tubes are badly plugged up, but theory predicts -- and animal experiments confirm -- that otherwise, exposure to vacuum causes no immediate injury. You do not explode. Your blood does not boil. You do not freeze. You do not instantly lose consciousness. Various minor problems (sunburn, possibly "the bends", certainly some [mild, reversible, painless] swelling of skin and underlying tissue) start after ten seconds or so. At some point you lose consciousness from lack of oxygen. Injuries accumulate. After perhaps one or two minutes, you're dying. The limits are not really known. References: _The Effect on the Chimpanzee of Rapid Decompression to a Near Vacuum_, Alfred G. Koestler ed., NASA CR-329 (Nov 1965). _Experimental Animal Decompression to a Near Vacuum Environment_, R.W. Bancroft, J.E. Dunn, eds, Report SAM-TR-65-48 (June 1965), USAF School of Aerospace Medicine, Brooks AFB, Texas. HOW THE CHALLENGER ASTRONAUTS DIED The Challenger shuttle launch was not destroyed in an explosion. This is a well-documented fact; see the Rogers Commission report, for example. What looked like an explosion was fuel burning after the external tank came apart. The forces on the crew cabin were not sufficient to kill the astronauts, never mind destroy their bodies, according to the Kerwin team's medical/forensic report. The astronauts were killed when the more-or-less intact cabin hit the water at circa 200MPH, and their bodies then spent several weeks underwater. Their remains were recovered, and after the Kerwin team examined them, they were sent off to be buried. USING THE SHUTTLE BEYOND LOW EARTH ORBIT You can't use the shuttle orbiter for missions beyond low Earth orbit because it can't get there. It is big and heavy and does not carry enough fuel, even if you fill part of the cargo bay with tanks. Furthermore, it is not particularly sensible to do so, because much of that weight is things like wings, which are totally useless except in the immediate vicinity of the Earth. The shuttle orbiter is highly specialized for travel between Earth's surface and low orbit. Taking it higher is enormously costly and wasteful. A much better approach would be to use shuttle subsystems to build a specialized high-orbit spacecraft. [Yet another concise answer by Henry Spencer.] THE "FACE ON MARS" There really is a big rock on Mars that looks remarkably like a humanoid face. It appears in two different frames of Viking Orbiter imagery: 35A72 (much more facelike in appearance, and the one more often published, with the Sun 10 degrees above western horizon) and 70A13 (with the Sun 27 degrees from the west). Science writer Richard Hoagland has championed the idea that the Face is artificial, intended to resemble a human, and erected by an extraterrestrial civilization. Most other analysts concede that the resemblance is most likely accidental. Other Viking images show a smiley-faced crater and a lava flow resembling Kermit the Frog elsewhere on Mars. There exists a Mars Anomalies Research Society (sorry, don't know the address) to study the Face. The Mars Observer mission will carry an extremely high-resolution camera, and better images of the formation will hopefully settle this question in a few years. In the meantime, speculation about the Face is best carried on in the altnet group alt.alien.visitors, not sci.space or sci.astro. V. DiPeitro and G. Molenaar, *Unusual Martian Surface Features*, Mars Research, P.O. Box 284, Glen Dale, Maryland, USA, 1982. $18 by mail. R.R. Pozos, *The Face of Mars*, Chicago Review Press, 1986. [Account of an interdisciplinary speculative conference Hoagland organized to investigate the Face] R.C. Hoagland, *The Monuments of Mars: A City on the Edge of Forever*, North Atlantic Books, Berkeley, California, USA, 1987. [Elaborate discussion of evidence and speculation that formations near the Face form a city] M.J. Carlotto, "Digital Imagery Analysis of Unusual Martian Surface Features," *Applied Optics*, 27, pp. 1926-1933, 1987. [Extracts three-dimensional model for the Face from the 2-D images] M.J. Carlotto & M.C. Stein, "A Method of Searching for Artificial Objects on Planetary Surfaces," *Journal of the British Interplanetary Society*, Vol. 43 no. 5 (May 1990), p.209-216. [Uses a fractal image analysis model to guess whether the Face is artificial] B. O'Leary, "Analysis of Images of the `Face' on Mars and Possible Intelligent Origin," *JBIS*, Vol. 43 no. 5 (May 1990), p. 203-208. [Lights Carlotto's model from the two angles and shows it's consistent; shows that the Face doesn't look facelike if observed from the surface]
Archive-name: atheism/introduction Alt-atheism-archive-name: introduction Last-modified: 5 April 1993 Version: 1.2 -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----- An Introduction to Atheism by mathew <mathew@mantis.co.uk> This article attempts to provide a general introduction to atheism. Whilst I have tried to be as neutral as possible regarding contentious issues, you should always remember that this document represents only one viewpoint. I would encourage you to read widely and draw your own conclusions; some relevant books are listed in a companion article. To provide a sense of cohesion and progression, I have presented this article as an imaginary conversation between an atheist and a theist. All the questions asked by the imaginary theist are questions which have been cropped up repeatedly on alt.atheism since the newsgroup was created. Some other frequently asked questions are answered in a companion article. Please note that this article is arguably slanted towards answering questions posed from a Christian viewpoint. This is because the FAQ files reflect questions which have actually been asked, and it is predominantly Christians who proselytize on alt.atheism. So when I talk of religion, I am talking primarily about religions such as Christianity, Judaism and Islam, which involve some sort of superhuman divine being. Much of the discussion will apply to other religions, but some of it may not. "What is atheism?" Atheism is characterized by an absence of belief in the existence of God. Some atheists go further, and believe that God does not exist. The former is often referred to as the "weak atheist" position, and the latter as "strong atheism". It is important to note the difference between these two positions. "Weak atheism" is simple scepticism; disbelief in the existence of God. "Strong atheism" is a positive belief that God does not exist. Please do not fall into the trap of assuming that all atheists are "strong atheists". Some atheists believe in the non-existence of all Gods; others limit their atheism to specific Gods, such as the Christian God, rather than making flat-out denials. "But isn't disbelieving in God the same thing as believing he doesn't exist?" Definitely not. Disbelief in a proposition means that one does not believe it to be true. Not believing that something is true is not equivalent to believing that it is false; one may simply have no idea whether it is true or not. Which brings us to agnosticism. "What is agnosticism then?" The term 'agnosticism' was coined by Professor Huxley at a meeting of the Metaphysical Society in 1876. He defined an agnostic as someone who disclaimed ("strong") atheism and believed that the ultimate origin of things must be some cause unknown and unknowable. Thus an agnostic is someone who believes that we do not and cannot know for sure whether God exists. Words are slippery things, and language is inexact. Beware of assuming that you can work out someone's philosophical point of view simply from the fact that she calls herself an atheist or an agnostic. For example, many people use agnosticism to mean "weak atheism", and use the word "atheism" only when referring to "strong atheism". Beware also that because the word "atheist" has so many shades of meaning, it is very difficult to generalize about atheists. About all you can say for sure is that atheists don't believe in God. For example, it certainly isn't the case that all atheists believe that science is the best way to find out about the universe. "So what is the philosophical justification or basis for atheism?" There are many philosophical justifications for atheism. To find out why a particular person chooses to be an atheist, it's best to ask her. Many atheists feel that the idea of God as presented by the major religions is essentially self-contradictory, and that it is logically impossible that such a God could exist. Others are atheists through scepticism, because they see no evidence that God exists. "But isn't it impossible to prove the non-existence of something?" There are many counter-examples to such a statement. For example, it is quite simple to prove that there does not exist a prime number larger than all other prime numbers. Of course, this deals with well-defined objects obeying well-defined rules. Whether Gods or universes are similarly well-defined is a matter for debate. However, assuming for the moment that the existence of a God is not provably impossible, there are still subtle reasons for assuming the non-existence of God. If we assume that something does not exist, it is always possible to show that this assumption is invalid by finding a single counter-example. If on the other hand we assume that something does exist, and if the thing in question is not provably impossible, showing that the assumption is invalid may require an exhaustive search of all possible places where such a thing might be found, to show that it isn't there. Such an exhaustive search is often impractical or impossible. There is no such problem with largest primes, because we can prove that they don't exist. Therefore it is generally accepted that we must assume things do not exist unless we have evidence that they do. Even theists follow this rule most of the time; they don't believe in unicorns, even though they can't conclusively prove that no unicorns exist anywhere. To assume that God exists is to make an assumption which probably cannot be tested. We cannot make an exhaustive search of everywhere God might be to prove that he doesn't exist anywhere. So the sceptical atheist assumes by default that God does not exist, since that is an assumption we can test. Those who profess strong atheism usually do not claim that no sort of God exists; instead, they generally restrict their claims so as to cover varieties of God described by followers of various religions. So whilst it may be impossible to prove conclusively that no God exists, it may be possible to prove that (say) a God as described by a particular religious book does not exist. It may even be possible to prove that no God described by any present-day religion exists. In practice, believing that no God described by any religion exists is very close to believing that no God exists. However, it is sufficiently different that counter-arguments based on the impossibility of disproving every kind of God are not really applicable. "But what if God is essentially non-detectable?" If God interacts with our universe in any way, the effects of his interaction must be measurable. Hence his interaction with our universe must be detectable. If God is essentially non-detectable, it must therefore be the case that he does not interact with our universe in any way. Many atheists would argue that if God does not interact with our universe at all, it is of no importance whether he exists or not. If the Bible is to be believed, God was easily detectable by the Israelites. Surely he should still be detectable today? Note that I am not demanding that God interact in a scientifically verifiable, physical way. It must surely be possible to perceive some effect caused by his presence, though; otherwise, how can I distinguish him from all the other things that don't exist? "OK, you may think there's a philosophical justification for atheism, but isn't it still a religious belief?" One of the most common pastimes in philosophical discussion is "the redefinition game". The cynical view of this game is as follows: Person A begins by making a contentious statement. When person B points out that it can't be true, person A gradually re-defines the words he used in the statement until he arrives at something person B is prepared to accept. He then records the statement, along with the fact that person B has agreed to it, and continues. Eventually A uses the statement as an "agreed fact", but uses his original definitions of all the words in it rather than the obscure redefinitions originally needed to get B to agree to it. Rather than be seen to be apparently inconsistent, B will tend to play along. The point of this digression is that the answer to the question "Isn't atheism a religious belief?" depends crucially upon what is meant by "religious". "Religion" is generally characterized by belief in a superhuman controlling power -- especially in some sort of God -- and by faith and worship. [ It's worth pointing out in passing that some varieties of Buddhism are not "religion" according to such a definition. ] Atheism is certainly not a belief in any sort of superhuman power, nor is it categorized by worship in any meaningful sense. Widening the definition of "religious" to encompass atheism tends to result in many other aspects of human behaviour suddenly becoming classed as "religious" as well -- such as science, politics, and watching TV. "OK, so it's not a religion. But surely belief in atheism (or science) is still just an act of faith, like religion is?" Firstly, it's not entirely clear that sceptical atheism is something one actually believes in. Secondly, it is necessary to adopt a number of core beliefs or assumptions to make some sort of sense out of the sensory data we experience. Most atheists try to adopt as few core beliefs as possible; and even those are subject to questioning if experience throws them into doubt. Science has a number of core assumptions. For example, it is generally assumed that the laws of physics are the same for all observers. These are the sort of core assumptions atheists make. If such basic ideas are called "acts of faith", then almost everything we know must be said to be based on acts of faith, and the term loses its meaning. Faith is more often used to refer to complete, certain belief in something. According to such a definition, atheism and science are certainly not acts of faith. Of course, individual atheists or scientists can be as dogmatic as religious followers when claiming that something is "certain". This is not a general tendency, however; there are many atheists who would be reluctant to state with certainty that the universe exists. Faith is also used to refer to belief without supporting evidence or proof. Sceptical atheism certainly doesn't fit that definition, as sceptical atheism has no beliefs. Strong atheism is closer, but still doesn't really match, as even the most dogmatic atheist will tend to refer to experimental data (or the lack of it) when asserting that God does not exist. "If atheism is not religious, surely it's anti-religious?" It is an unfortunate human tendency to label everyone as either "for" or "against", "friend" or "enemy". The truth is not so clear-cut. Atheism is the position that runs logically counter to theism; in that sense, it can be said to be "anti-religion". However, when religious believers speak of atheists being "anti-religious" they usually mean that the atheists have some sort of antipathy or hatred towards theists. This categorization of atheists as hostile towards religion is quite unfair. Atheist attitudes towards theists in fact cover a broad spectrum. Most atheists take a "live and let live" attitude. Unless questioned, they will not usually mention their atheism, except perhaps to close friends. Of course, this may be in part because atheism is not "socially acceptable" in many countries. A few atheists are quite anti-religious, and may even try to "convert" others when possible. Historically, such anti-religious atheists have made little impact on society outside the Eastern Bloc countries. (To digress slightly: the Soviet Union was originally dedicated to separation of church and state, just like the USA. Soviet citizens were legally free to worship as they wished. The institution of "state atheism" came about when Stalin took control of the Soviet Union and tried to destroy the churches in order to gain complete power over the population.) Some atheists are quite vocal about their beliefs, but only where they see religion encroaching on matters which are not its business -- for example, the government of the USA. Such individuals are usually concerned that church and state should remain separate. "But if you don't allow religion to have a say in the running of the state, surely that's the same as state atheism?" The principle of the separation of church and state is that the state shall not legislate concerning matters of religious belief. In particular, it means not only that the state cannot promote one religion at the expense of another, but also that it cannot promote any belief which is religious in nature. Religions can still have a say in discussion of purely secular matters. For example, religious believers have historically been responsible for encouraging many political reforms. Even today, many organizations campaigning for an increase in spending on foreign aid are founded as religious campaigns. So long as they campaign concerning secular matters, and so long as they do not discriminate on religious grounds, most atheists are quite happy to see them have their say. "What about prayer in schools? If there's no God, why do you care if people pray?" Because people who do pray are voters and lawmakers, and tend to do things that those who don't pray can't just ignore. Also, Christian prayer in schools is intimidating to non-Christians, even if they are told that they need not join in. The diversity of religious and non-religious belief means that it is impossible to formulate a meaningful prayer that will be acceptable to all those present at any public event. Also, non-prayers tend to have friends and family who pray. It is reasonable to care about friends and family wasting their time, even without other motives. "You mentioned Christians who campaign for increased foreign aid. What about atheists? Why aren't there any atheist charities or hospitals? Don't atheists object to the religious charities?" There are many charities without religious purpose that atheists can contribute to. Some atheists contribute to religious charities as well, for the sake of the practical good they do. Some atheists even do voluntary work for charities founded on a theistic basis. Most atheists seem to feel that atheism isn't worth shouting about in connection with charity. To them, atheism is just a simple, obvious everyday matter, and so is charity. Many feel that it's somewhat cheap, not to say self-righteous, to use simple charity as an excuse to plug a particular set of religious beliefs. To "weak" atheists, building a hospital to say "I do not believe in God" is a rather strange idea; it's rather like holding a party to say "Today is not my birthday". Why the fuss? Atheism is rarely evangelical. "You said atheism isn't anti-religious. But is it perhaps a backlash against one's upbringing, a way of rebelling?" Perhaps it is, for some. But many people have parents who do not attempt to force any religious (or atheist) ideas upon them, and many of those people choose to call themselves atheists. It's also doubtless the case that some religious people chose religion as a backlash against an atheist upbringing, as a way of being different. On the other hand, many people choose religion as a way of conforming to the expectations of others. On the whole, we can't conclude much about whether atheism or religion are backlash or conformism; although in general, people have a tendency to go along with a group rather than act or think independently. "How do atheists differ from religious people?" They don't believe in God. That's all there is to it. Atheists may listen to heavy metal -- backwards, even -- or they may prefer a Verdi Requiem, even if they know the words. They may wear Hawaiian shirts, they may dress all in black, they may even wear orange robes. (Many Buddhists lack a belief in any sort of God.) Some atheists even carry a copy of the Bible around -- for arguing against, of course! Whoever you are, the chances are you have met several atheists without realising it. Atheists are usually unexceptional in behaviour and appearance. "Unexceptional? But aren't atheists less moral than religious people?" That depends. If you define morality as obedience to God, then of course atheists are less moral as they don't obey any God. But usually when one talks of morality, one talks of what is acceptable ("right") and unacceptable ("wrong") behaviour within society. Humans are social animals, and to be maximally successful they must co-operate with each other. This is a good enough reason to discourage most atheists from "anti-social" or "immoral" behaviour, purely for the purposes of self-preservation. Many atheists behave in a "moral" or "compassionate" way simply because they feel a natural tendency to empathize with other humans. So why do they care what happens to others? They don't know, they simply are that way. Naturally, there are some people who behave "immorally" and try to use atheism to justify their actions. However, there are equally many people who behave "immorally" and then try to use religious beliefs to justify their actions. For example: "Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance: Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners... But for that very reason, I was shown mercy so that in me... Jesus Christ might display His unlimited patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive eternal life. Now to the king eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever." The above quote is from a statement made to the court on February 17th 1992 by Jeffrey Dahmer, the notorious cannibal serial killer of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It seems that for every atheist mass-murderer, there is a religious mass-murderer. But what of more trivial morality? A survey conducted by the Roper Organization found that behavior deteriorated after "born again" experiences. While only 4% of respondents said they had driven intoxicated before being "born again," 12% had done so after conversion. Similarly, 5% had used illegal drugs before conversion, 9% after. Two percent admitted to engaging in illicit sex before salvation; 5% after. ["Freethought Today", September 1991, p. 12.] So it seems that at best, religion does not have a monopoly on moral behaviour. "Is there such a thing as atheist morality?" If you mean "Is there such a thing as morality for atheists?", then the answer is yes, as explained above. Many atheists have ideas about morality which are at least as strong as those held by religious people. If you mean "Does atheism have a characteristic moral code?", then the answer is no. Atheism by itself does not imply anything much about how a person will behave. Most atheists follow many of the same "moral rules" as theists, but for different reasons. Atheists view morality as something created by humans, according to the way humans feel the world 'ought' to work, rather than seeing it as a set of rules decreed by a supernatural being. "Then aren't atheists just theists who are denying God?" A study by the Freedom From Religion Foundation found that over 90% of the atheists who responded became atheists because religion did not work for them. They had found that religious beliefs were fundamentally incompatible with what they observed around them. Atheists are not unbelievers through ignorance or denial; they are unbelievers through choice. The vast majority of them have spent time studying one or more religions, sometimes in very great depth. They have made a careful and considered decision to reject religious beliefs. This decision may, of course, be an inevitable consequence of that individual's personality. For a naturally sceptical person, the choice of atheism is often the only one that makes sense, and hence the only choice that person can honestly make. "But don't atheists want to believe in God?" Atheists live their lives as though there is nobody watching over them. Many of them have no desire to be watched over, no matter how good-natured the "Big Brother" figure might be. Some atheists would like to be able to believe in God -- but so what? Should one believe things merely because one wants them to be true? The risks of such an approach should be obvious. Atheists often decide that wanting to believe something is not enough; there must be evidence for the belief. "But of course atheists see no evidence for the existence of God -- they are unwilling in their souls to see!" Many, if not most atheists were previously religious. As has been explained above, the vast majority have seriously considered the possibility that God exists. Many atheists have spent time in prayer trying to reach God. Of course, it is true that some atheists lack an open mind; but assuming that all atheists are biased and insincere is offensive and closed-minded. Comments such as "Of course God is there, you just aren't looking properly" are likely to be viewed as patronizing. Certainly, if you wish to engage in philosophical debate with atheists it is vital that you give them the benefit of the doubt and assume that they are being sincere if they say that they have searched for God. If you are not willing to believe that they are basically telling the truth, debate is futile. "Isn't the whole of life completely pointless to an atheist?" Many atheists live a purposeful life. They decide what they think gives meaning to life, and they pursue those goals. They try to make their lives count, not by wishing for eternal life, but by having an influence on other people who will live on. For example, an atheist may dedicate his life to political reform, in the hope of leaving his mark on history. It is a natural human tendency to look for "meaning" or "purpose" in random events. However, it is by no means obvious that "life" is the sort of thing that has a "meaning". To put it another way, not everything which looks like a question is actually a sensible thing to ask. Some atheists believe that asking "What is the meaning of life?" is as silly as asking "What is the meaning of a cup of coffee?". They believe that life has no purpose or meaning, it just is. "So how do atheists find comfort in time of danger?" There are many ways of obtaining comfort; from family, friends, or even pets. Or on a less spiritual level, from food or drink or TV. That may sound rather an empty and vulnerable way to face danger, but so what? Should individuals believe in things because they are comforting, or should they face reality no matter how harsh it might be? In the end, it's a decision for the individual concerned. Most atheists are unable to believe something they would not otherwise believe merely because it makes them feel comfortable. They put truth before comfort, and consider that if searching for truth sometimes makes them feel unhappy, that's just hard luck. "Don't atheists worry that they might suddenly be shown to be wrong?" The short answer is "No, do you?" Many atheists have been atheists for years. They have encountered many arguments and much supposed evidence for the existence of God, but they have found all of it to be invalid or inconclusive. Thousands of years of religious belief haven't resulted in any good proof of the existence of God. Atheists therefore tend to feel that they are unlikely to be proved wrong in the immediate future, and they stop worrying about it. "So why should theists question their beliefs? Don't the same arguments apply?" No, because the beliefs being questioned are not similar. Weak atheism is the sceptical "default position" to take; it asserts nothing. Strong atheism is a negative belief. Theism is a very strong positive belief. Atheists sometimes also argue that theists should question their beliefs because of the very real harm they can cause -- not just to the believers, but to everyone else. "What sort of harm?" Religion represents a huge financial and work burden on mankind. It's not just a matter of religious believers wasting their money on church buildings; think of all the time and effort spent building churches, praying, and so on. Imagine how that effort could be better spent. Many theists believe in miracle healing. There have been plenty of instances of ill people being "healed" by a priest, ceasing to take the medicines prescribed to them by doctors, and dying as a result. Some theists have died because they have refused blood transfusions on religious grounds. It is arguable that the Catholic Church's opposition to birth control -- and condoms in particular -- is increasing the problem of overpopulation in many third-world countries and contributing to the spread of AIDS world-wide. Religious believers have been known to murder their children rather than allow their children to become atheists or marry someone of a different religion. "Those weren't REAL believers. They just claimed to be believers as some sort of excuse." What makes a real believer? There are so many One True Religions it's hard to tell. Look at Christianity: there are many competing groups, all convinced that they are the only true Christians. Sometimes they even fight and kill each other. How is an atheist supposed to decide who's a REAL Christian and who isn't, when even the major Christian churches like the Catholic Church and the Church of England can't decide amongst themselves? In the end, most atheists take a pragmatic view, and decide that anyone who calls himself a Christian, and uses Christian belief or dogma to justify his actions, should be considered a Christian. Maybe some of those Christians are just perverting Christian teaching for their own ends -- but surely if the Bible can be so readily used to support un-Christian acts it can't be much of a moral code? If the Bible is the word of God, why couldn't he have made it less easy to misinterpret? And how do you know that your beliefs aren't a perversion of what your God intended? If there is no single unambiguous interpretation of the Bible, then why should an atheist take one interpretation over another just on your say-so? Sorry, but if someone claims that he believes in Jesus and that he murdered others because Jesus and the Bible told him to do so, we must call him a Christian. "Obviously those extreme sorts of beliefs should be questioned. But since nobody has ever proved that God does not exist, it must be very unlikely that more basic religious beliefs, shared by all faiths, are nonsense." That does not hold, because as was pointed out at the start of this dialogue, positive assertions concerning the existence of entities are inherently much harder to disprove than negative ones. Nobody has ever proved that unicorns don't exist, but that doesn't make it unlikely that they are myths. It is therefore much more valid to hold a negative assertion by default than it is to hold a positive assertion by default. Of course, "weak" atheists would argue that asserting nothing is better still. "Well, if atheism's so great, why are there so many theists?" Unfortunately, the popularity of a belief has little to do with how "correct" it is, or whether it "works"; consider how many people believe in astrology, graphology, and other pseudo-sciences. Many atheists feel that it is simply a human weakness to want to believe in gods. Certainly in many primitive human societies, religion allows the people to deal with phenomena that they do not adequately understand. Of course, there's more to religion than that. In the industrialized world, we find people believing in religious explanations of phenomena even when there are perfectly adequate natural explanations. Religion may have started as a means of attempting to explain the world, but nowadays it serves other purposes as well. "But so many cultures have developed religions. Surely that must say something?" Not really. Most religions are only superficially similar; for example, it's worth remembering that religions such as Buddhism and Taoism lack any sort of concept of God in the Christian sense. Of course, most religions are quick to denounce competing religions, so it's rather odd to use one religion to try and justify another. "What about all the famous scientists and philosophers who have concluded that God exists?" For every scientist or philosopher who believes in a god, there is one who does not. Besides, as has already been pointed out, the truth of a belief is not determined by how many people believe it. Also, it is important to realize that atheists do not view famous scientists or philosophers in the same way that theists view their religious leaders. A famous scientist is only human; she may be an expert in some fields, but when she talks about other matters her words carry no special weight. Many respected scientists have made themselves look foolish by speaking on subjects which lie outside their fields of expertise. "So are you really saying that widespread belief in religion indicates nothing?" Not entirely. It certainly indicates that the religion in question has properties which have helped it so spread so far. The theory of memetics talks of "memes" -- sets of ideas which can propagate themselves between human minds, by analogy with genes. Some atheists view religions as sets of particularly successful parasitic memes, which spread by encouraging their hosts to convert others. Some memes avoid destruction by discouraging believers from questioning doctrine, or by using peer pressure to keep one-time believers from admitting that they were mistaken. Some religious memes even encourage their hosts to destroy hosts controlled by other memes. Of course, in the memetic view there is no particular virtue associated with successful propagation of a meme. Religion is not a good thing because of the number of people who believe it, any more than a disease is a good thing because of the number of people who have caught it. "Even if religion is not entirely true, at least it puts across important messages. What are the fundamental messages of atheism?" There are many important ideas atheists promote. The following are just a few of them; don't be surprised to see ideas which are also present in some religions. There is more to moral behaviour than mindlessly following rules. Be especially sceptical of positive claims. If you want your life to have some sort of meaning, it's up to you to find it. Search for what is true, even if it makes you uncomfortable. Make the most of your life, as it's probably the only one you'll have. It's no good relying on some external power to change you; you must change yourself. Just because something's popular doesn't mean it's good. If you must assume something, assume something it's easy to test. Don't believe things just because you want them to be true. and finally (and most importantly): All beliefs should be open to question. Thanks for taking the time to read this article. mathew -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE----- Version: 2.2 iQCVAgUBK8AjRXzXN+VrOblFAQFSbwP+MHePY4g7ge8Mo5wpsivX+kHYYxMErFAO 7ltVtMVTu66Nz6sBbPw9QkbjArbY/S2sZ9NF5htdii0R6SsEyPl0R6/9bV9okE/q nihqnzXE8pGvLt7tlez4EoeHZjXLEFrdEyPVayT54yQqGb4HARbOEHDcrTe2atmP q0Z4hSSPpAU= =q2V5 -----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
I'm sold! Where do I sign up?
##I strongly suggest that you look up a book called THE BIBLE, THE QURAN, AND ##SCIENCE by Maurice Baucaille, a French surgeon. It is not comprehensive, ##but, it is well researched. I imagine your library has it or can get it ##for you through interlibrary loan. ## I shall try to get hold of it (when I have time to read of course :-) ##In short, Dr Baucaille began investigating the Bible because of pre- ##ceived scientific inaccuracies and inconsistencies. He assumed that ##some of the problems may have been caused by poor translations in by- ##gone days. So, he read what he could find in Hebrew, Greek, Aramaic. ##What he found was that the problems didn't go away, they got worse. ##Then, he decided to see if other religions had the same problems. ##So, he picked up the Holy Qur'an (in French) and found similar prob- ##lems, but not as many. SO, he applied the same logoic as he had ##with the Bible: he learned to read it in Arabic. The problems he ##had found with the French version went away in Arabic. He was unable ##to find a wealth of scientific statements in the Holy Qur'an, but, ##what he did find made sense with modern understanding. So, he ##investigated the Traditions (the hadith) to see what they had to ##say about science. they were filled with science problems; after ##all, they were contemporary narratives from a time which had, by ##pour standards, a primitive world view. His conclusion was that, ##while he was impressed that what little the Holy Qur'an had to ##say about science was accurate, he was far more impressed that the ##Holy Qur'an did not contain the same rampant errors evidenced in ##the Traditions. How would a man of 7th Century Arabia have known ##what *not to include* in the Holy Qur'an (assuming he had authored ##it)? ## So in short the writer (or writers) of Quran decided to stay away from science. (if you do not open your mouth, then you don't put you foot into your mouth either). But then if you say Quran does not talk much about science, then one can not make claims (like Bobby does) that you have great science in Quran. Basically I want to say that *none* of the religious texts are supposed to be scientific treatises. So I am just requesting the theists to stop making such wild claims. --- Vinayak ------------------------------------------------------- vinayak dutt e-mail: vdp@mayo.edu standard disclaimers apply
Which provided the basis for the denoument of the film which introduced Errol Flynn to the world. (Love interest was Olivia de Havilland, who went on to appear with Flynn in 7 more films.) [Exercise for non-old-movie buffs: what film was this?] [Exercise for old movie buffs: what were the 7 more films?]
Actually, an accelerator such as the Daystar 33 MHz 68040 is cheaper than upgrading to a Q700 (25 MHz). The accelerator costs about $1400 whereas the upgrade costs $2131 (just quoted from my dealer). However the Q700 upgrade gives you very fast built in video that supports monitors up to 21" with 8 bit depth and up to 16" at 24 bit depth (with additional VRAM). It also has a SCSI port capable of a much faster throughput than the CI, which makes a big difference if you have a fast hard drive. If the improved video and SCSI features are important to you, you're better off getting the Q700 upgrade, otherwise save some money and get an accelerator.
Yes, please create the group alt.raytrace soon!! I'm hooked on pov. geez. like I don't have anything better to do.... OH!! dave letterman is on...
... deleted I am not in the business of reading minds, however in this case it would not be necessary. Israelis top leaders in the past and present, always come across as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the Arabs. The way I see it, Israelis and Arabs have not been able to achieve peace after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons: 1) Arab governments are not really representative of their people, currently most of their leaders are stupid, and/or not independent, and/or dictators.
Hey folks! Just moments ago, I uploaded the Bungee Jumper After Dark module that was widely talked about on here some time ago. It's at ftp.cica.indiana.edu, in /pub/pc/win3/uploads, titled simply bungee.zip. Be sure to set your ftp connection to binary mode before downloading. If you have any other After Dark shareware/freeware modules, please upload them too. The more the merrier. Andrew --
Yes. Reasonable parallels. (though I don't think Russia ever claimed to be Communist) I must protest your "...in a Communist country". How do you know? There haven't been any, and are unlikely to ever be any. In some Socialist dictatorships, you can't, whilst in some socialist democracies (such as France or Australia) you can. Of course, some people may disagree about France & Australia being socialist... Yet. In some circumstances. I was at a public meeting last night (in the USA), where a protester, who was very nice and calm, and just said before the speaker started to beware of his opinions, was forced out of the meeting by two armed policemen. There are a lot of things that one cannot do in the USA. You may not notice them, but as an Australian visitor, I notice them. Yes, we are lucky at the moment. I hope that is still true in a few years time. Because it didn't just happen...it required concious effort. Of course don't over react --- but don't under react. Andrew. Disclaimer: All my opinions are my own, and do not represent the society for the conservation of momentum or any other group. I hope I don't lose my student Visa as a result of these opinions.. --
The *POWER* of the word processor and a stamp at work. The fact that around here the state rep generally lives no more than nine miles from any constituent doesn't hurt, either.
This is a difficult problem for which there is no obviously good solution. One approach is simply to try and move political opinion and hope a new more libertarian consensus lasts for a while. Another approach is to try and amend the constitution. The original constitution restrained the U.S. government from economic intervention for 100 to 150 years, depending on just how one wants to count it. The First Amendment, though weakened in many ways, still restrains government (particularly state and local), even though on many particular issues the majority is in favor of censorship. I think libertarians would be happy with another 100 years of restraint via an amendment or two (not that I think that's likely to happen). Not necessarily Mr. Hendricks, but other posters seem to see this as a problem with libertarianism, that it cannot be stable. That might be true, but it is not an objection to libertarianism per se. If a libertarian political consensus forms for a decade or two and then falls apart again, we would just be back where we are now. This is unlike the case for socialism where a socialist consensus that held for a while and then fell apart would not leave us where we are now, but instead with lots of bureaucracy that would be hard to get rid of, if not tyranny as the end condition of a strong socialist consensus.
Hello, I am having a small problem with my sound blaster pro and a game. Is there a utility out there that would tell me what DMA's my system is using?
Mr. Freeman: Please find something more constructive to do with your time rather than engaging in fantasy..... Not that I have a particular affinty to Arafat or anything. John
[stuff about changing windows registration omitted]
I am using DOS Quick C 2.5 in a DOS window under Windows 3.1, and the other day while I was running the compiler, I got a general protection fault immediately followed by a "serious disk error". When I rebooted, I found that about 15 files had gotten "cross-linked" which is a pretty serious corruption of the hard drive file system. I am concerned that Quick C in a DOS window has somehow strayed outside its protected mode world and corrupted the smartdrv.exe disk cache and that is what caused the disk problem. I thought that DOS programs run in DOS windows were pretty well-contained by Windows. If that is true, then maybe the Quick C compiler has nothing to do with it. Has anybody else had this type of problem? (I only recently "upgraded" from Quick C 2.0 to 2.5.) Brad Banko
Misc. Items for sale: Mount Plate: Sony Model CPM-203P, mounting plate for Sony portable CD players for Portable: plugs into car lighter, snaps onto the bottom of any Sony CD Player: Portable CD player, perfect condition. Will also throw in a cassette adapter in SO SO condition. Paid $45...............Asking $30. Car Speakers: Sherwood 5 1/4" two way car speakers, in car for 7 months, 5 1/4 inch: excellent condition, Paid $65............Asking $40. 4 inch: Factory Speakers from Toyota excellent condition Asking $20. Nintendo: Nintendo Game Boy, Light Boy, Tetris, Super Mario Land, Gameboy: NFL Football, Castlevania Adventure, Hyper Lode Runner, 4 years + games: old all in working condition, Asking $70. Accessories: Whole Internet: The Whole Internet: User's Guide and Catalog by ED Krol, book: guide to using the internet, where to fing information and resources. Paid $30..........Asking $20. MicroSoft: Never Used, came with my computer, Asking $30. Visual Basic: MicroSoft: Came with my computer, never used, Asking $100. Word for Windows: Thanks,
Hey, what do we look like, a parts store? Has it ever occurred to you to visit your dealer and fork out the bucks for a new one? What are the chances of someone happening to have a '92 part laying around, much less one in working condition? Sheesh, some edu's. Besides, I only have the right side inverted GSX-R fork. It's already been converted into a floor lamp.
This deserves framing. It really does. "[Atoms] aren't even real." Tell me then, those atoms we have seen with electron microscopes are atoms now, so what are they? Figments of our imaginations? The evidence that atoms are real is overwhelming, but I won't bother with most evidence at the moment.
You know... after I finished laughing I thought: This would be a great final. Two Canadian teams with lots of tradition and all that Don Cherry nonsense behind them and a nail-biter finish. Of course, I would prefer a Vancouver--Montreal final with Vancouver scoring the final goal.... Pity neither will happen.
There is no need to include the VAT from previous levels because the VAT is a "difference" tax...if the VAT is X%, than the amount of tax the government receives through all the levels is X% of the purchase price of the end consumer. At the intervening levels, only the difference between the VAT paid out and the VAT received is remitted to the government. A VAT is infinitely preferable to a retail sails tax...
Only the most comprehensive survey on sexuality in 50 years. Chance and size have nothing in common on the multimillion number scale we are talking about. Nobody said that you were. Chill. Well said. Actually, the Kinsley Report in 1947(or 48?) used a high percentage of prisoners so...........
You're getting warmer. The 'little thing in the trigger' has to be depressed before the trigger can move. What this means is the damned thing won't go off until the trigger is pulled. This makes it just about (there HAVE been some problems, but we're assuming the gun is functioning correctly..) as safe as a revolver. The gun when working correctly is totally drop safe. Now, in police work this is a consideration. There is not a single documented case I'm aware of where a police officer was killed because he failed to operate the safety on his firearm. There are quite a few documented cases where criminals got hold of the cops gun and couldn't figure out how to get the safety off in time to use the gun, thus the proprietary nature of the safety (to the criminal at least) very likely prevented the office from getting shot. The purpose of a safety is to make the gun safe from unintentional fire. This does not mean it should be so complicated as to slow down intentional use! Thus the Glock safety is perfectly adequate from a 'safety' standpoint, but not necessarily the most desirable from the standpoint of open carry where it is easily grabbed by somebody else. By this criteria it DOES make a lot of sense as a concealed carry piece. From the standpoint of police use, it is no better (or worse) than a revolver as far as being 'proprietary' to the officer in the method of firing it. The ideal solution may someday be biometric sensing of the user so that the firearm can't be used by anybody but it's owner, but for now the wide variety of safety systems helps, unless the criminal happens to be familiar with that particular type of firearm.
Hello, I thought this problem might have something to do with Windows 3.1 SMARTDRV and a VESA video card...any ideas??? I recently purchased a 486DX-33 machine and am having problems where the machine will suddenly freeze or reboot. This may happen in Windows 3.1 or DOS 5.0. Sometimes it is after printing a document, sometimes after using the mouse, and sometimes just when I am sitting there. Twice when it happened, the machine rebooted and sounded seven beeps. I looked in the documentation and the seven beep code meant a problem with interrupts. The machine has the following configuration and files: 486DX-33 AMI BIOS 5.25 and 3.5 floppies 170 Meg IDE hard drive 256k cache Microsoft compatible mouse on com1 Citizen GSX-145 on lpt1 NI SuperVGA Monitor with VESA Windows Accelerator Card w/ 1Meg Two VESA slots Windows 3.1 DOS 5.0 CONFIG.SYS ========== DEVICE=C:\WINDOWS\HIMEM.SYS DOS=HIGH DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\SETVER.EXE FILES=20 BUFFERS=20 STACKS=9,128 AUTOEXEC.BAT ============ @ECHO OFF LH C:\WINDOWS\SMARTDRV.EXE 1024 PROMPT $p$g PATH C:\DOS;C:\WINDOWS;C:\MOUSE LH C:\MOUSE\MOUSE SET TEMP=C:\DOS LH C:\DOS\DOSKEY When the machine freezes, I can't use the mouse or keyboard or use Ctrl-Alt-Del to reboot. If any one can give me any help, I would greatly appreciate it. If anyone can help configure this machine for the best efficiency (memory wise) I would appreciate that also. -- Douglas B. Dodson Internet: DBD@ICF.HRB.COM HRB Systems, Inc. State College, PA USA 16804
Huh? Clemens pitched last on Saturday, giving him his usual four days rest. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Brian Curran Mead Data Central brian@meaddata.com
^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ What kind of brainless clod posted the above garbage? Would they be so kind as to explain how this is "Clinton's" initiative, when it has been before Congress for "at least the past 6 months"?
Uh, I don't think you can call a team with Tom Seaver, Jerry Koosman, and Nolan Ryan on the pitching staff a team that has "no talent." They did come out of nowhere, but some of the improvement was forseeable.
Try sizeit.zip from ftp.cica.indiana.edu [129.79.20.84] in the directory ftp/pub/pc/win3/desktop. It's freeware. Also noticed there a program called sizer110.zip, which from the description looks like it also does what you want. Hope this helps.
I took your advice and ordered a copy of the Washinton Report. I heartily recommend it to all pro-Israel types for the following reasons: 1. It is an excellent absorber of excrement. I use it to line the bottom of my parakeet's cage. A negative side effect is that my bird now has a somewhat warped view of the mideast. 2. It makes a great April Fool's joke, i.e., give it to someone who knows nothing about the middle east and then say "April Fools". Anyway, I plan to call them up every month just to keep getting those free sample magazines (you know how cheap we Jews are). BTW, when you call them, tell 'em barf sent you. Just Kidding,
My friend brought a subaru SVX recently. I had drove it for couples times and I think its a great car, esp on snow. However when she took it to a local Subaru dealer for a oil change, the bill came out to be about 80 dollars. The dealer told us it is because to change the oil filter on a SVX it is necessary to disassemble a metal cover under the engine and that took an hour of labour. At first, we think we are being ripped off so she phone to a dealer in Toronto but found out the they are charging roughly the same price. So is there any SVX owner out there that has the same problem ? And if the oil change story is true, then the engineer of Subaru looks pretty stubid to me. By the way, the car looks great.
Ahem!!! Hrumph!!!! You have encurred the wrath of Glock owners. We will beat you with our hammers. Oooops, don't have any :-) Seriously. There is no difference in the safeties betweena Glock and any DA revolver. Intellectually, think of the Glock as a very high cap revolver. Ignoring stove pipes, misfeeds and all the other bonus exercises that autoloaders give you, that is. Every gun has its safe moment and its dangerous moment. If you just learn how to handle it, it becomes a lot less dangerous (to you).
: [deletions] : : > How can you reconcile the administrations self proclaimed purpose of : > providing law enforcement with access to encrypted data without making : > the clipper system the only crypto available in the U.S... ? : : The Second and Fourth Amendments do come to mind. : I think i heard someplace (misc.legal?, comp.org.eff.talk?) that the courts have pretty much eliminated the fourth amendment already.
------------ Part 10 of 14 ------------ M:J"U$$,^UM[>WE/M[>V+BXN+BXN+BXN+BXOM[>U34U-34["PL!D9<7'2TM+2 M/3T]/3T]F9F9`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`$!`0&$`0%XGG5UP,#`P%M;%*JJJFMK"0G/S\_/SPD)-C9N MV=E&!UDS4G9V4I5960<'$=G9V=G9V=EN;FYN;FYN;F[9V=EA86%A!05L;&QL M!04%>7F3DV-CDY.3DY-C555555555555555L;&QL$A(2$A(2;&QL556TM!$1 M[NXV-C8)J@F`"6L";MD1$3,S4G83$W924I4S,S,S$1$163,SE5)V=G9V4@$! M*RLK*RL!`81V=KR\OKZ^)-;6UM;6UM;6UM;6@8&!UM;6UM;6UM;6UM:!@8&! MUM;6UB0^H*"NM;6U$!`0$!`0$!`0$!"UM8BNH*`^:B0DUH&?WO7>G];6)"1J M:FIJ:FIJ:FJ@KHB($+8V-C9K"0G/"0EK-C9N$1$1$1%9$5E965F54G9V=G9V M=G9V=G9V=G9V4E)24E)24G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9VE)3,8%%145%18,R4C(PP MVF2L(NP='1UHL7Y:6EI^L6@=-C;9V>X1$5F54E)V4G9V=G92,UD'!^[NV>[N M-C8VJJJ`@(#J@("`@*JJJFAH:&AH:+'O6K%H[/'QK"WTE&#U43<&!@:4-V!1 M-XR8:FIJ:I@D"I\7GR1J:J"($*X^UM[>[8N+BXN+-#0T-#0T-#0T-#2+BXOM M[5-34["PL!D9<7'2/3V9F0,#`P,#`P,#7KN[NRHJ*BIZ>M]'1Z4+9L0QAX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX=3L%-3[8N+BS0T-#3%Q<4T M-#0T-#0T-,7%Q<4T-(N+B^WM[>WM[5-34U-34U-34U-3[8N+BXLTQ6=G9P], M3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B4Q,3$Q,3`]GQ<7%Q<7%Q33% MQ6=G9P],3$Q,3(F)R<G)R186%E145%22DI*2DI*2DI*2DE145%145%145%06 M%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86 M%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F);EO9J:G9HS;9 ME:G9V=G9V=DV-C8V6UL4SU=7HA1;P'6IGGAX`0%2A`%XGG5UP,#`6UL4%!04 M5U=7"<_/S\_/"6LV-FYNV=D1$0<'6952=G92E5E9!Q$1$1$E)=G9V6YN;FYN M;FYN;MG9)1$1$6%A;&QL!04%!7F3DV-CDY.3>7G.SF-C8V-CSLY5;&QL;&P2 M$A(2$A(2;&QL5783=C-9$1'9[C9KJ@F`@`EK:P)N;B41,S-2=A,3$W9V=E)2 ME3,SE5)V=A,3$Q,3=G:$4@$!`5)VO+P3$[R\O':^OB36UM;6UM;6UM;6@8'6 MUM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6)"0^H*"NM;40$!`0$!`0$!`0$+6UB*Z@H#X^ M)"36UI_>]?7>G]8D)"1J:FIJ:FIJ:J"@KHB(-C8V:VL)"0G/"0EK-C9N;MG9 M$1$1$5DS,UF5=G9V=G92E3-965E965E960=965DSE5)24G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V M=G9V5C?,S,PWE`:,,##:9/$B'1UH:&BQ[UI:6EJ`@*JJJC8V-MD1!UE9,U)V M=A-V=E*560<'$>[N;C8V-C9K@("`@.KJ@%I:L6C&QK&Q:&AHL;%:6N]H[.SL MK"WT!LQ143<&!I0&-U%1E)AJL[.S:I@D))_UGR1J:J"($$,^U@TT-#0T-#3% MQ<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q30T-(N+BXOM[5-3L+`9<7'2TCT]/3V9`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`;XDUM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6)#X^H*"NM;6U$!`0 M$!`0$+6UM8B(KJ"@/CXD)"36@9_>]1>?G];6)"1J:FIJ:FJ@H*"@KFXV-C9K M:VMK"0D)"<\)"6LV-F[9V1$163-9E5)V=G9VE5D1$1'N[N[N[N[N!P<'!UE9 M63.5E5)24E)2=G9V=G9V=G9V=A,3$Q,3C"DP,"UD\>P=:+&QL>]^@("`@`X. MZ>GIZ?#P\/`HEP=965E9E5)V=G9265D'$>[N-C:J:ZJ`@(#JO;V]O;U:[[%H ML;&QL;&QL>]:6EJQ:&CL\2TIC#=@43>4E)24-U%@!IAJLZ1J:I@D))_U%R0D M:J"N$$,^EP\/#P\/#P\/#P]G9V=G9V=G9\7%Q<4T-#2+B^WM4U.PL!D9<3V9 MF0,#`P,#`UY>N[LJ>GK?WT>EI0L+"PL+"PL+"V9F9L0QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?MBXN+-#0T-,7%Q<5G9P\/#P\/#V=G9V=G9\7%Q30T M-#0T-#2+BXN+BXLTQ6</#TQ,3$Q,3(F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,B4Q,3$Q,3(F) MB8F)3$Q,3`]G9V=GQ<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<5G9V=G9V</#P],3$Q,3$R)B8F)B8F) MB8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,3`\/#P],3$Q,B8F)B8F) MB8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)B8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q, M3(F)B4Q,3$Q,3`]G9V=G9V</#P\/#P]GE0>IV:,V!Y4'V=G9V=DV-C8V6UNB M5\]7%!04P#AUGIZ>>'AX`80!GG4X6UM;6Q175U=75U?/S^KJZH"JJJJJJJH' M!UE9E5)V$W92,UE9!P<'$=G9V=G9V=G9V=DE)24E)=G9V6YN;FYN-C8V-C8V M;F[9V05YDY-CDY-Y>07.SL[.SL[.SL[.!05L;&P2$A(2$FMK-F[9V1$1,S.5 M=A-V4C,S$1'9;C9KU`D)"6L";MD1$3,SE5)V=G9V=G92E965E952=G9V$W9V M4I65E5)2=G:\$Q,3$Q,3$[R\)-;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6 MUM8D)#X^H*"NM;6U$!`0$!`0M;6(B*ZNH*`^/B0D)-:!G][U]=Z?G];6)"0D M:FIJ:J"@H!$1V38V-FMK:PD)"0D)"<_/"0EK-C9NV1$163-2=G9V=I5961$1 M[N[N[N[N[N[N!P<'!UE965E965E969654E)24E)24E)24E)24E*565D'$=EN M-JJJJH"`#@X.#@X.#@X.Z>GIZ>GP\/`HEY<Y.3DY.1Q2=G9V=E*565D'$>[N M\>RQ6KV]O;V]O;V]6N_O[^_O[[&Q[UJ]O;U:[[%H[&0I](S,4<PW-S<W8%$W MC)AJLZ1JF)@D))\7%R1J:J"N$*!,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P\/#P]G9V=G MQ<4T-(N+[>U34["P&7'2/9D#`P->7EX#`P->NRIZ>M]'1Z6EI4='I:6EI:6E M"PMFQ,3$,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<T-,7%-#3%Q<5G9V</#P\/ M#V=G9V=GQ<7%Q<7%Q<7%-#0T-(N+BS0TQ6</#TQ,3$Q,3(F)B8E,3$Q,#P\/ M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P]G9\7%Q<4T-#0T-(N+-(LT-#0T-#3%Q<7%9V</ M#P],3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F)3$Q,3`]G9V=G MQ<7%Q6</3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$P/3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`\/3$P/9\4TBXN+BXN+BS0T-(OM4U.P&78'V:,V MV959!ZFIV=G9-C8V6VNB5\]7HA046SAUGIYX>'AX`80!GG7`6UL4%*)75U=7 M5U?/S^KJ@("JJJJJJJJXN+B7.1Q2E5D'!Q$1$=G9V6YN;FYNV=G9V=DE)24E MV=G9;FYN:VMKJJJJJJIK:VLV-C8V-FZ3DY-Y!04%!07.SL[.S@4%!6QL;&P2 MS\\)"6NJ-C:CV=D1$3,S4G83=I4S,Q$1;C9K"0D)"0G4:P)N;MD1$0<S,S,S M,S,S,S.5E79V=A-V=I5960<'!P<'65E965E9`0$!`5*\$Q.\)"36UM;6UM;6 MUM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM8D)"0D)#X^H*"NB+6U$!`0$!"UM8BNKJ"@H#X^FR0D MUM:?G][U]=Z?@=;6)"0D:FIJ:J`1$1'9;C8V-FMK:VMK"0D)"0G/SPD):S8V M-F[9$1%9,U)V=G9VE5D1$1$1[N[N[N[N$>X'65E9696565F565E965E965E9 M65E965E960<'$=FC-JJJJ@X.#@X.#@X.#@X.#@[IZ>GIZ?#P\/#P*)>7.3DY M'!P<'!P3=G92-Y2,]-ID\>QH[UJ]O;V]O;V]O5I:O;U:6EI:6KV]O;V]O5JQ M[*S:*?244<S,S,S,]<P&C)AJL[-JF"0D)`J?%PIJ:J"N$$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F) MB8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P\/#V?%Q32+BXOM[5-3L+"P&7'2TCV9F0.9F9D#`P,# M`UZ[NRHJ>M_?W]_?1Z4+"Z6E1Z6E"V9FQ#$QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<T M-#0TQ<7%Q6=G9P\/9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9\7%-#2+BXLT-,5G9V=G9P],3$Q, M3(F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,3`\/#P],3`\/#P]G9\7%9V?%Q<7%-#0T-(N+BXOM[>WM M[>V+BXN+-#3%Q<5G9V=G9P\/#P\/#V=G9V=G9V=GQ<7%Q<5G9\7%Q6</#TQ, M3$Q,3`\/9\7%-#0T-#0T-#3%Q<5G9V=G#P]G9V</3$Q,3$Q,3$P/#V=G9\4T M-#0TQ<7%Q6=G#P\/#P\/#P\/#V=G9V=G9V=G9\7%Q30T-#0TB^WM[>WMBXOM M[5-3L!G2/3V9F9D#V=DVV5E265D'J=G9-C8V:Z+/5\]75Q046\!UGIYX>`$! M`80!GG7`6Q04%%=75U=75U?/S^KJ@("JJJJXN+BXN+BX.1PYEY?-\/#9V=EN M;C8V-C8V-FYNV=G9V=G9;FYN-JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJHV-C:CHZ-N-C8% M!04%SL[.!38V:VL)S\_/@("`@("`JJJJ-J/9$1$S,W83=I4S$1'9;C8V:PD) M"0D):VYNV241$1$',S.54G9V$Q,3$Q-V=E*5,UD'$=G9V=G9V=D1$0<1$5E9 M65D`@G:\O+R^)-;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UM;6UB0D)"0D)"0D/CX^H*!#KK6U$!`0 M$+6UB*ZNH*"@/CXD)"36UI^?WA?U%]Z?@=8D)"0D:FH1V=G9V=EN-C8V-FMK M:PD)"0D)"<_/"0D)"0EK-C9NV1$1$5DS6952=A-V4EDS61$1$=GNV>[9$0<' M!P<'!P<'!Q%9$0<'!Q$1V=G9;FYN-C8VJJJJJND.#@X.#@X.#NGIZ>GIZ>GI MZ>GI\/#P\"@HEY>7.3D<'!P<8,S,S,PWE`:,]-IDK.S&L>]:6EI:6KV]O;V] MO;V]O;V]O;V]6EI:O5I:QO%DVO0&45%145%18`:,C)@ILVJ8F"0D)`J?]0IJ MH*!G#TQ,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B4Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$P/#V=GQ<4T-(N+[>U3 M4[`9<7'2TCT]F9F9F9D#`P,#`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`0$!A(1XGG7`6Q04HE=75U=75U?/S^KJ@("JJKBXN+BX MN+B7.1PYEY?-\/#P\/#PZ>GI-C8V-C9N;FYN;FYNJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ MJJJJJJJJ-C8V-C8VJJJJJC8V-C8V-C9K:PD)S\^`@("`@("`JJJJ-N[N[@<S ME783=I4S$1'9;C8V:PD)"0EK;FXE$1$S,Y52=A-V=E*5E965,S,S,UD1$0<1 MV=G9;FYNV=D1$0<'!P<'65DS,S,S,P$``%+6UM;6@8&!@8&!@=;6UH[6UHZ; MFYN;FYL^/J"@0T.U$!`0$+6(B*Z@H*`^/B0D)-;6GY_>]?7UWI^?UM8D)"3P MJC8V;FYN;C8V-C9K"0D)"0D)"<_/SPD)"0D)"0D):S8V;MG9$1$1$1$163,S M4G83=I4S61$1$>X1$1$'!P<'!P<'!P<'!Q$1$=G9;C8V-C8VJJJJ@.GIZ>GI M#@X.#@X.#NGIZ>GIZ>GIZ>GI\/#P\"B7ESGT](R4S%%18,S,S,PWE`:,]-ID MK.SL:._O6N_O[UJ]O;V]O;V]O;U:6EKOL;'O6KU::.RL+2F,8%'U]5%1E(ST M])AJ:FJ8F"0D)"2?]0IJ\,7%9V</3$Q,3$R)B8F)B8F)R8F)B8F)B8F)B8E, M3$Q,3$Q,3$P/9V?%Q32+BXOM[>U3L!EQ<=+2/3T]/9F9F9F9F9F9F9D#`UY> M7EY>NRHJ>GIZ>GK?W]_?WT>EI0MFQ#$QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>+-,7%Q<7%Q<7%-#0T-,7% MQ<5G9V=GQ<5G9V=G9V=G9P]G9V</#TQ,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`\/#V=G9\7%Q<4T M-#0T-#0T-#0TBXN+BXOM[>U34U-34U-34U.PL+"P4^WM[>WM[>V+BXN+[8OM M[8N+B^WM4U/M[>WM[5-34^V+BS0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-(N+B^WM[>WM M[8N+[>WMBXN+-#0T-#3%Q<7%Q<4T-(N+[>WM4U-34U-34U-34[`9&1FP4^WM M[>U34U-34U.PL+!34U-34U-34U-34[`9&7'2/9D#N[LJ>M]'I:4+9L0Q,8>' MT)X!4E)26:G9-C9;HL_/S\_/5U<46\!UGG@!A(2$4@&>=77`6Q2BHJ)75U=7 M5U?/ZNKJ@("JN+BXN+BXN)<Y'!PYE\WP\/#-S?#P\.GIZ>D%!05LXM34@("J MJJJJJJJJJC8V-C:JJJJJJJJJJJHV-C8V-C8V-C:JJJJJJJIK"0D)"<^`@("` M@("`@*JJJJHV-N[N!UE94G83=E(S,Q$1V6XV:PD)"6L";MD1$3,SE7:\$W9V M4I4S,S-9$1$1$1'9V1'9V=G9V1$'65E9,Y4S65E965DS,S,S,S,S,S,S,U+6 M@8&!@8&!CM:.CM:.FYN;FYN;FSX^/J!#0XBUM1`0M8B(KJ`^/CZ;FR2.@8&? M%_7U]?7U%Y^?@8&J\(#I@#8V-C8V-C8V:PD)"0G/S\_/S\_/"0D)"0D)"6MK M-C8V;FYN;FYN;FYN;N[9$1$1,Y5V$W:565E965F54E)2E95965D'!Q$1V=EN M;FXV-C:JJJKIZ>GIZ>GIZ>GI#@X.#@X.#@X.#@X.#NGIZ>SLK&3:*?2,C)0W M8%%@S,S,S,PWE`:,*=IDK.SL:+'O[^_O[^]:6EJ]6EI:[[&Q:&AH:&BQ6EJ] ML>RL9-J,S%%145',C"DI])AJ:FJ8F`8D)"2?%X%3[8LTQ<5G9P\/3$Q,3(F) MB<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R8F)B8F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,3`\/#V=G9\7%-#2+[5-34["P M&1EQ<7'2TM+2TM+2TM(]F9F9F0,#7KLJ*GIZ*BHJ>BIZ>GK?1Z6E"V;$Q#&' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?% MQ<7%Q30T-(N+BS0TQ<5G9V=G9V=GQ<4T-,7%Q<7%Q6=G9P\/3`\/#P\/#P]G M9\7%Q<7%-#0T-(N+BXN+BXN+BXN+B^WM4U-34U-3L+!34U-3L+"PL!FPL%-3 M4U-34^U34U-34U-34U.PL%-3L+"PL+"P4U-34U-34U/M[>WM[>WM[>WMBXN+ M[>WM4U-34U-3L%-34U-34U-34^WM[>WM[>WM[>V+BS2+B^WM4U-34U-34U-3 M4U.P&7%Q<7%Q&1FPL+"PL!D9&1D9&1D9&1FPL!D9&1D9&7%QTCT]/0->NRIZ MWZ4+9F;$,8>'AX>'AX>'AX<!4@$!4@?9-C9KHL_/S\]75U<46\!UG@&$4@$! M>)Z>=3A;6Q04%!04%%=75U?/ZNKJ@("JN+BXN+BXN#DY'!PYE\WP\/#P\/#P M\.GIZ>D%!05LXN+B$A)L;&QLJJHV-C8V-C8V-C8V-C8V-C8VHZ/N[J,V-C:J MJJJJJJJJJJJJ@("`@("`@("JJJJJJC:C[NX'!UE94G9V=I4S61$1V6X":PD) M"39N;MD1$3,S4G9V$Q,3=G92E3,S61$1$1$1V1'9V=G9$0=969524E*565E9 M!P=9,S.54G9V=G9V=G9V4E)2UM;6CM;6UHZ;FYN;FYL^/CX^H*!#0XBUM1`0 MM8B(KJ`^/IN;)(Z!G]X7]?7U]?47G^[N\*JJ\(#I@#8V-C8V-C8V:PD)"0D) M"<_/SPD)"0D):PD):VMK-C8V-C8V;NYN;NYN;NYNV=D1$5DS4G834I654E)2 M=G9V4E*565D'$1'9;FXV-C8V-C;P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/#IZ>GIZ>GIZ>GO6KV] MO;WOQNSQ9-HI](R,E#?,45',-S<WS#>4!HST*2UDK.SL:+'O[^_O[^_O[^^Q ML;&Q:,;L[.SL[.QHL5J][^SQ9-J,-\S,8%$WC"DI*6IJ:IB8F"0DF"2?TG$9 ML%/MBS3%9P\/3$Q,3(F)B8G)R<G)R186%A86%A;)R<G)R<G)B8F)B8F)B8E, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P]G9\4T-(N+B^V+B^WM4[`9&1D9&1D9<=+2TCV9F0,#7EY> M7KLJ*GK?WT='1Z6E"V;$Q,3$Q#&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<T-#0T-#0T-#0T-,7%Q<7%Q<7%-#0T-#0T-#0T-,7% MQ6=G9V=G9\7%Q<7%Q<7%Q32+BXN+B^WM[>WM[>WM[>WM4U-3L+"PL!D9&1D9 M&;"P&1D9&1D9&1FPL+"PL+"PL+`9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&;"PL+"PL+"PL%-3 M4["PL+"PL+"PL+"PL+"P&1EQ<=+2TM+2<7%Q&1D9&1D9&;"PL%.PL+"PL+"P ML+"PL+`9L+"PL%-3L+"P&1D9&1D9&7%Q<7$9&7%Q<7%Q&1D9&1EQ<7%QTM+2 MTCT]F0->7EZ[N[LJ>D>EI6;$AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AW:54GC9-C9KHL_/ MSU=75U>B6SAUG@&$`7B>GIYU=<!;%!04%!04%!175U?/ZNKJ@*JJN+BXN+BX MN#DY'!R7E\WP\/#P\/#P\.GIZ>D%!05LXN+B$A(2;&QL;&P%!5555555-C8V M-C8V-C8V-C8V-JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ@("`@("`JJJJJC8V-J/N[NX'!UE9 M65)V=E(S61'9;C9K"0D)"6LV;F[9)1$S,U)V=A,3$W9V=G9V4I4S,UD1$0<' M$1$1$0<'65E965E9!P<'!Q$1$5DSE5)V=G9V=G83=G9V4E)2E96.CIN;FYN; M/CX^/CX^H*!#0XBUM1`0M8B(KJ`^/ILDCH&?WA?U]?4'[N[N[NZCHZ.C\*KP MJFXV-C8V-C8V:PD)"0G/S\\)"0EK-C8V-C8V-C8V-C9N;N[N[F[9V=G9V>[N M$1$1$5E9,Y52=G9V=E)24G9V=E)2E5E9!P<1V=GN[J.C\/#P\"A&*/#P\/#P M\/#Q\?'L[,9HL;'O6KV]O5IH[/%D+2GTC`8WS&!146`WE)0WE)0&C/0IVBUD M\>SL:+'O[^_O[[&Q:&C&QNSL[.SQ\?'Q\>SL:.^]6L;Q9-J,-\S,S&"4F"DI M]&IJF)B8F)B87`.9TG$9L%.+-,7%9P\/3$Q,3$Q,B8F)R<G)R<D6%A86%A86 M%A86%A86%A86R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B4Q,3$P/#P\/#P\/#V=GQ32+ MBXN+[5.PL+`9<7'2/9F9`UZ[*GIZ>M]'I:6E"PL+"PL+"V9F9C&'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>+BXN+BXN+-#0T-#0T-#0T M-#0T-#2+BXLT-#0T-#3%Q<7%Q30T-#3%Q<4TBXN+[>WM[>WM[>WM4U-34["P ML!D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9L+`9&1D9<7%Q<7%Q&1D9&1D9 M&1D9&1FP&1D9&1D9&1D9&1EQ<7%QTM+2TM+2/3T]/3V9F9F9F9D]/=+2TM+2 MTM+2TM)QTM+2TM+2<7%QTM+2TG%QTM+2TM+2TM)Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<1D9 M&1D9<7%QTM+2TM+2/9D#7EZ[NRIZ>GIZ>GK?1Z5F,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'=@'9-C9KHL]7S\]75U>B6SAUG@%2>)ZI=75U.,`4%*(4%!1;6UL4 M5U?/ZNKJ@*JJN+BX.3FXN#DY'!R7E\WP\/#P\/#P\.GIZ>D%!05LXN+B$A(2 M;&QL;&QL!055555556QL34U-34U--JJJJJJJ@("`@("`JJJ`@("`@("`@*JJ MJC8V-C:CH^[N[@<'65E94G9V4CDY$1'9-C9K"0G/"0D)"<AN;MD1$5DS,Y52 M=G9V=A,3=G92E3,S,UD'!P<'!P<'!UE9$0<'!P<1$1$1$5E963,S69524E)2 M4C-960<'!P<'!P<'$1$^/CX^/CX^H$-#0[6UM1`0M8BNH#X^FYO6@9]V=G92 M65E960<'[N[N[N[N[N[N1MG9;FXV-C8V:PD)"<_/"0D):S8V-FYN;MG9V>[N M[A$1$1$1$1$1$1$1$1$1$5DS,S,S,Y654G9V$W9V=G9V=G9V=E)265D'!^[N M[BB7EY>7EY>LK/'Q\?'Q\?'L[.SLQFBQL;'OO;V]6K'L\60MVO0&-\Q@45%1 M8#>4!@8&!HST]"G:+62L\>S&L>_O[^_OL6C&[.SL[/&LK*QD9&2LK/'L:.^] M6FCQ9"F,-\S,S&"4C/3T]&IJF)B8F"B[7@.9TG$9L%/M[8LT-,5G#TQ,3$Q, M3(F)B8G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A;)R<G)R<G)R<G) MR8F)B8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,#P_%Q30TB^U34[`9<=(]F0->NRIZ*GIZW]]' MI0L+I:4+"PL+9L0QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?M M[>WM[8N+BXN+BXN+B^WM[>WM[>V+BXN+BS0T-#0T-#2+BXLT-(N+B^WM[>WM M[>U34U-3L+`9&1D9&7%Q<7$9&7%Q<7%Q<1D9&7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q&1D9<7'2 MTM+2TM+2TG%Q<7%Q<7$9&1D9&1D9&7%Q<7%QTM(]/9F9/3T]/9F9F9F9F9F9 MF9F9`P,#`YF9F3V9/9F9F9F9`P,#`P.9F9F9F9F9F9F9/3T]/3V9F9F9F3W2 MTG%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<1D9&1D9&1EQ<=(]/9D#`UZ[NRHJ*GIZWT='I0MF,8>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'=39KHL_/5\]75U<46SAU>`%2>)YU M=74XP%L4HE>B%%M;6UL45U?/ZNK/@*JJN+BX.3FXN)<Y'!PYE\WP\/#P\/#P MZ>GIZ>D%!05LXN+B;!)L;&QL;&QL!04%5555;&Q-34U-34U-3<'!P<'HZ.CH MZ("`@("`@("`@*JJJJHV-C8V-C8VH^[N[@=965)V=E(<63GN[D;9;C8V:PD) M"0D):VLV-C9N;MD1$1%9,S.54G83$W9V4C,S,UD'!Q$1!P<1!P<1$1$1$1$' M!P=9$1$1!P<1$0<'$0<'!Q$1$=D1$1$1$1'9[NZC-C8V-JJJ@("`@.KJ#@[J MZH"`@#9NV0<'65)2=A,3=G9V=E)265D'[N[N[N[NHZ,V;C8V-C8V:PD)S\\) M"6LV-C9N;MG9V=D1$1$165F54G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V$Q,3=G9V M=G9V=G924E*565E96?3T*2G:VBUD9*RL\?'Q\>SL[.SL[,9HL;'O[^]:O;V] M[\;QK"W:](PW8%%145%@-Y0&!HR,]/0IVMHM9&2L[.QHL>_O[^^Q:.SL\:RL M9"TM+2TM+2UDK*SL:.^]6FCL9"D&S,PW-\PWC(R,C)B8F)A>7@.9/=)Q<1D9 ML%/MBXLT-,5G9TQ,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A945%145!86 M%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8E,3`]GQ30T MB^U3L+`9&7'2/9F9`P->7KLJ>M_?1Z6E"PL+"V;$AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?M[5-34U-34U-3[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[8N+BXN+ MBXOM[>WM[5-34U-3L+"PL+"PL!D9&1D9<7%Q<7%Q<=+2<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q M<7$9&1D9&1D9&1EQ<=+2TM+2TM+2TM+2<7%Q<1D9&1D9<7%Q<7%QTCV9F9F9 MF9F9F9D#`P,#`P,#`P,#`UY>7@,#`P,#`P->7EY>7EZ[N[M>7EY>7EY>7@,# MF9D]/3T]F0,#`YF9/=+2<7$9&;"P4U-34U-3L+"PL+"P&1EQTCV9`UZ[*BIZ M>GK?1Z4+"V;$,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX=;:\_/ M5U=75U<46SAUG@%2>)YU=3C`P%L45U=7%%M;6UL4%%?/ZNK/@*JJN+BXN+BX MN)<Y'!PYEY?P\/#P\/#PZ>GIZ>D%!04%;.+B;&QL;&P%;&P%!04%555L;$U- M34U-34U-3<'!P>CHZ.CHZ.CH7U]?7U]?Z.C!1#8V-C8VJJHV-J/N[@=965)V M=G8<'#DY.>[N$6XV-FL)"0D)"0EK-C8V;F[9$1%9,S.54E)V$Q-V4I4S,P<' M!Q$1!P<'$0<1$1$1$1$1$1$1$1'9V=G9V=D1$1$1V=G9V=G9[N[N[N[NJJJJ MJJJ`@("`@(#JZNH.#NKJZH"`@*JJJD:7EY<Y'%)V=G83=G9265E9!^[N[N[N M[NZCHZ-N;FXV-FL)"<\)"6LV-C9N;MG9V=D1$1$1695V=G9V=G9V4I4S,S.5 M4G9V=A,3$Q,3=G9V=G9V=F!145%@S)0&C/3T]"DI*=HM+61DK*RL\?'Q[.SL M[.S&:+&Q[UI:6EJ]O;U::.RL9-HIC#=145%18&#,-Y0&C(ST*2G:+61D9*SQ M[,:Q[^_OL;%H[.SQK"W:VBDI*2DIVBUD9*SLQN^]6FCL9"D&-Y24E#<W!HR, MF)B8F9D]/=)Q&1FPL+"P4U/MBS3%Q6=G#TQ,3$Q,B8F)B8F)R<G)R<D6%A86 M%A86%A86%A865%145%145%145%145%145%145%14%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86 M%A86%A86%LG)R<F)B8E,3`\/9V?%-(N+B^U3L!D9<=+2/0->7EZ[*GK?WT=' MI0O$,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<9&1D9&;!34U-34U-34U-3 M4U-34^WM[>WM4U/M[5-34U-3L+"PL+`9&1D9&1D9&1D9&7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q M<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q&1D9&1D9L+"P&1D9&7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<=+2TM)Q<7%Q&1D9 M&1D9&7%Q<=+2/3V9F9D#`P,#`P,#`P->7EY>`P->7KN[N[M>7KN[N[LJ*BHJ M*KN[NUY>7EY>7EY>`P,#`P->7KN[N[M>`P.9/=)Q&1FP4U-34["PL+"P&7%Q M<7%QTM(]`UY>N[LJW]]'I0MFQ#&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?/SU?/5U=;P#AUG@&$>)YU.,#`6Q2B5U=7%!1;6Q04 M5U=7ZNK/@*JJJKBXN+BXN+B7.1PYEY?-\/#P\/#IZ>GIZ>D%!04%;&SB;&QL M;&P%!04%!555555L;$U-34U-34U-3<'!P>CHZ.CHZ.A?7U]?Z.CHZ.A$1*:F M965E941$9::FIH.#!SE9'!QV=AQ9.>[N1D9N-FL)"<\)"0D)"6LV-C9NV1$1 M$5DS,Y52=G83=G92,UE9!P<'!P<'$1$1$1$1$1$1$1$'$=G9V=G9V1$1!P<' M!P?N[N[N[D9&1D9&JJJJJJJ`@("`ZNKJ#NKJZNKJ@("`@/"JJJI&EY<Y.1P< M'!P<''9265E965E9!P<'[N[N[N[NHZIN;C8V"0G/"0EK-C8V;MG9$1$1$1%9 M6952=G9V=G9V=I4S65E962N,!I3,S&!@8&!@8%%145%145%1S)0&C/3T*2G: MVBUD9&2LK*SQ\?'L[.SLQFBQL>]:6KV]O;V]O5JQ[*QD+2GT!F!18,S,S,PW ME`:,C/0IVBUD9*RLK/'L[&BQL;&Q:.SL[/%D+=KT](ST]/3T*2UD9*SQQN]: M6K'L9"F,!HR,C`:4!HR,F3W2<1D9L+!34^WMBXN+-#3%Q<5G9V</3$Q,3$R) MB8F)B<G)R<G)R186%A86%A86%A86%A86%A865%145%145%145%145%145%14 M5%145%145%145%06%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<F)B8F)3$Q,3$P/#V?% MB^U3L+`9<=(]F0->NRIZ>GK?1Z5F,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX=Q M&1D9L+!34U-34U.PL+"P4U-34U-3L+"PL!D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9 M&1EQ<7%Q<7%Q<7%QTM+2TG%Q<7%Q<1D9&1D9L+"PL+"P&1D9&1D9&1EQ<7$9 M&1D9&7%Q&1D9&1FPL!D9&1EQ<7%QTM+2/3T]F9F9F0,#`P,#`P.9F9D#`UY> M7KN[N[N[NRHJ*BHJN[N[N[N[N[N[NRHJ>GHJ*GIZ>M_?WWIZ>BI>`YD]TG%Q M&1D9&1D9&1EQ<7'2TCT]F0->NRHJ*BHJ*GK?1Z4+9L0QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'A\C/5Z);P#AUGGB$`9YU M=<#`6Q175U=7HA04%!175U=7ZNK/@*JJJKBXN+BXN+B7.1PYEY?-\/#P\/#I MZ>GIZ>GI!04%!6QL;&QL;`4%!04%5555555L34U-34U-34U-3<'!Z.CHZ.CH MZ%]?7^A?Z.CHZ$1$P65E965E941$9::FIH.#@X.AY)SKZ^ODH8.#941*2FL) M"0G/"0D)"0EK:VLV-C9NV=D1$5DS,S-2=A,3=I4Y69>763E9!P<'!P<'!P<' M!P<'!P<'$1$1!Q%965E965DY.3DY.3DYEY>7EY=&1JJJ@("`ZNKJ#NKJZNJ` M@("`@("JJJJJ1I>7ESD<'!P<'!P<'#E965E9!P<'[N[N[J.C-C:JJC8V:PD) M"<\)"6LV-MD1$1%963,S68P&!I3,8%'U4<PW!HR,C(R,!I3,S&!145%145%1 M45%145%1S)2,C/0I*=HM+62LK*RL\?'Q\>SL[.S&:+'O[UJ]O;V]O;V][VCL MK&0M*?2,-U%@-S<W-S>4!HR,]"G:+62LK/'Q\>SL[&BQL6C&[.SQ\:PMVO2, M!@:,C(ST*2UD9*SQ[+%:O;'LK-J,C/3T](P&*#W2<1D9L%/M[8N+-#3%Q6=G M9P\/#P],3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F)R<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86 M5%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%14%A86%A86%A86%A86 M%A86%LG)R<G)B8F)B8F)3$P/Q32+[5.PL!EQTCV9`UZ[NRIZ1Z5FQ#&'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<9&1FPL+"PL+"PL+"PL+"PL+"P&1D9<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q M<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%QTM+2TM)Q<7%Q<7'2<7%Q<7$9&1D9&1FPL!D9 M&1D9&7%Q&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&;"PL+"PL+"P&1D9<7%Q<7%QTM+2TM(]/3T] M/3T]/3T]F9F9`P,#7EZ[N[LJ*GIZ>GIZ*BIZ>BHJ*GIZ>GK?W]]'W]]'1Z6E MI:6E1]]Z*KM>`P,#F3T]/9D]/3T]/9F9`P->7KLJ>GK?W]]'1T='1Z6E"V8Q MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'A\A;P,`X=9Y2`9YU=<#`6Q175U=75Z(45U=75U=7S^K/@("JJJJXN+BX MN+BX.1P<EY?-\/#P\/#IZ>GIZ>GIZ04%!05L;&QL;&P%!055555556Q-34U- M34U-34U-3<'!Z.CHZ.A?7U]?Z%_HZ.CHZ$1$1&5EIJ9E965E965EIJ:#@X.# MY)SKZYRA@X-E941*2M/F+N`N+BXA(2$A(2$[.SN^OKY(2$C9$1%9,U)V=A,< M4CDYE1R5E965,Y65E9524E*565E9!P=960<'63DY.1P<'!P<'!P<'!P<.3F7 MEY>JJH"`@.KJZ@X.#@X.ZNKJZH"`@("JJJJJ1I>7.3D<'!P<.3DYEY>7[N[N M[NZCHZ.C-C9&I&2L\>S&IUKO:.SQK"TP](R,C(R,C(R,C`8WS%%14<PW!HR, MC(R,!I3,8&!145%1]5%145%145%1S)2,C/0IVBTM9*RLK/'Q\?'L[.SL[,9H ML>]:6KV]O;V]O5JQQNRL+=HI]/0&8%',E`8&E)0&C/3T*=HM9*SQ\>SL[.SL M[,;&QNSL[/'QK&3:*8R4-Y0&!HR,*=HM9&3Q[&A:O5IH["TI*=K:7#W2<1D9 ML%/M[8LT-,5G#P\/3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F)B8F)B8F)R<G)R<D6%A86%A86 M%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%E145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%14 M5%145%145%145%145!945%145!86%A86%A86%A;)R<G)B8E,3$P/9\4T[5,9 M<=(]`[LJ>GK?1Z6E"PL+Q#&',3$Q,8<Q,3$QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<9&1FPL+"PL+"P&1D9&1D9 M&1D9<7%Q<7%QTM+2TM)QTG%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%QTM+2TM+2TM+2TM+2TM+2TM+2 M<7%Q&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1FPL+"P&1D9<7%Q<7%Q M<7$9&1D9&1D9<7%Q<7'2TM+2/3T]F9F9`UY>7KN[*GIZW]_?W]_?W]_?W]_? MW]]'1T>EI:6EI:4+"PNEI:6EI4='WWHJ*KN[7EZ[7EY>`P,#`UZ[*GIZWT>E MI0L+"PL+"PMFQ#&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'ATO`=9X!`9YU=<!;6Q175U=75U=75U=7 M5U=7S^KJ@("JJJJJN+BXN+BXESD<.9?-\/#P\/#IZ>GIZ>GIZ>D%!04%;&QL M;&P%!04%5555;$U-34U-34U-34U-3<'!Z.CH7U]?7U]?7U_HZ.CHZ$1$IF6F MIJ:FIF5E965EIJ:F@X.#Y)SKZ^2A@V5E1$I*T],N+BXN(2$A(2'3TR$[.SN^ MODA(2$A(2'!PX2?>#0T-#=[>WM[>WM[>)][>W@T-#0W>WB<G)R?AX>$G)]X- M#0W>'!PY.3D<'!QV'!PYEY=&JJJJ@("`@("(B(B(M;40$+:VMA`0$(B(KJ!J MF"0*G_47-PHD))B8F&IJ:K.DI*2DI*2D9*SQ[!VG[^_&[/&L+=HIF(R,C(R, MC(R,C`8WS%%14<R4!HR,](R,!I3,8&!145%145%145%145%1S)2,C/0IVBUD M9*RL\?'Q[.SL[.S&:+&Q[UJ]O;V]O;U:[VCLK&3:*?3TC`;,46"4C(R,C(R, M]"DIVBUDK/'L[.SL[,;L[.SL[.SQ\?&LK"W:]`8WS#>4!@:,]-HM+62L[,;O M6EJQ[&3:,#W2TG$9&;!3[8O%Q6=,3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F) MB8F)R<G)R<G)R186%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86 M5%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%145%14 M%A86%LG)R<F)B4Q,3`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`JJJJJKBXN+BXN#D<.9>7\/#P\/#I MZ>GIZ>GIZ>GI!04%!04%!04%;`4%!055;$U-34U-34U-34W!P<'HZ.A?7U]? M7U]?7U_HZ.CHZ.A$1&6FIJ:FIJ:F965EIJ:F@X.AY)SKG*&#@V5$2DK3TRXN M+BXAT]/3T]/3TSL[.[Z^2$A(2$A(<'#AX2<-#0T-WB<GWM[>WM[>WM[>W@T- MWMXG)^'AX>'AX>'A)R?>#0T-#=[>)R?>W@T-WI_6UKX^H*"NB+6UM;6UB(B( MM;40$+:VMA`0$(B(KJ!JF"0*%_6?"B28F)AJ:FIJI*2DI*1DK*RLK/'Q[,;O M[Z<=[/%D+2GTC(R,C(R,C(R,C`8WS%'U4<R4C(R,C(R,!C?,45%145%145%1 M46!145%@S#<&C/0I+2UDK*RL\?'L[.S&QFBQL>]:6KV]O;V]6N^Q[/%DVO2, MC(P&E,Q143<&C(R,C(ST]"DM9&2L\>SL[,9H:&C&[.SL\?&LK*RL9"TIC)3, MS#>4!@:,]-HM+62L\>RQ6KU:!1D9L%/M4U-3[8N+-,5G#TQ,3(F)B8F)B8F) MB8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<D6%A86%A86%A86%A86%A;)R<G)R<G) MR<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A865%145%145%145%145)*2DI*2DI*2 MDI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DE145%145%14%A86%LG)B8E,3`_%-.U3&7'2F0.[*M]' M1T??W]_?W]_?W]]'1T??WT>E"V8Q,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<9&1D9<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%QTM+2TCT]TM(]/=+2 M<7%Q<1D9<7%Q<7%QTM+2TM+2TM+2TG%Q<7%Q<7%Q&1D9&1D9L+"PL+"PL+`9 M&1D9&7%Q<7$9&1D9<7%Q<7'2TM+2TG$9&;!34^WM[>U34[`9&1D9&1D9&1EQ M<=+2/9F9`UZ[NRHJ>M]'1T>EI:4+"PL+"PL+"PMF9F9F9L3$,3$Q,3$QQ,3$ MQ,3$Q,1F9@L+"PL+I:6EI:6EI0L+"PMF9F;$Q#&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>>=3C`6Z)75U=75U=75U?/5U?/ZNKJ@("`@*JJJJJX MN+BXN#D<'#F7S?#P\/#P\.GIZ>GIZ;2TZ04%!04%!04%;`4%!55L34U-34U- M34U-34W!P>CHZ.CHZ%]?7U]?7^CHZ.CHZ.CH1$1EIJ:FIJ:FIJ:FIJ:F@X.A MY)RKG*&#941$2M/3YBXN+N;3T]/3T]/3OKZ^ODA(2$A(2'!P<'#AX2<-#0T- MWB<G)][>WM[>WM[>WM[>WB<GX>'AX>'AX>'AX2<GWMX-#0W>WM[>#0W>G];6 M)+X^H$.NM;6UM;6UB(B(M;40$+:V$!`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`9&1D9&1D9&1D9<7%QTM+2TM+2<7$9L+!34^WM[>WM M[>U34["P&1D9&1D9&1EQTCV9`UZ[NRHJ>M]'I:4+"PL+"PL+"V9F9F;$Q,0Q M,3$Q,3$QAX>'AX>'AX>'AS'$Q,3$Q#$Q,3$Q,3$QAX>'AX<Q,3$Q,3&'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX=+%*)75U=75U=75\_/ M5\_/ZNKJ@("`@("JJJJJJKBXN)<Y'#F7E\W-S?#P\/#P\.GIZ9/IM.D%!04% M!04%!04%!6QL34U-34U-34U-3<'!P>CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CH1,%E MIJ:FIJ:FIJ:FIJ:#@X.AY.OKG*&#941*2M/3+BXNT]/32DI*2DI*2$A(2$A( M2'!P<'!PX>'A)]X-#0W>WB<GWM[>W@T-WM[>WMXG)R?AX>'A<'!P<-;AX>$G M)]X-#0T-WM[>#0TG@=;6OCZ@0ZZUM;6UM;6UM;6UM1`0MK80$!"UB(BNH&IJ M)`J?]9\*))AJ:J2DI*2NK*SQ\?'Q(B(B[.P=I^_OI\;L\:PMVBGTF(R,C(R, MC(P&E#?,45%14<PWE)0&!@:4S&!145%145'U4?5145%18&#,S)0&C/0I+61D MK*SQ\>SL:+'O6EJ]O;V]O;V]6N^Q[/%D+?0&S%%145%18,R4C(ST]/2,C/3T M*2UDK/'L[.SL[&BQL6CL[/&LK&2LK/&L9"TIC)0W-P:,C(R,]-HM+60$&;!3 M[8N+-#3%9P],3$Q,3$Q,3$R)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F) MB8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8G)R<F)B8F)B8F) MB8F)B8F)B8F)B<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A945%145%145%14DI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2 MDI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DI)45%06%LG)B4Q,9\4TB^U3&7'2/3V9`P,#`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`@("`JJJJJKBXN+@Y'!PY.9<HS<WP M\/#P\/#PZ9.3M.D%!04%!04%!04%56QL34U-34U-34U-3<'!Z.CHZ.CHZ.CH MZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ$1EIJ:FIJ:FIJ:F@X.#@Z'DG.OKY*&#941*2M/F+B[3 MT]-*2DA(2$A(2$AP<'!P<'#AX>'AX>$G)PT-#0T-WM[>WMX-#0T-#=[>)R<G MX>'A<'!P<'!P<-;AX>'A)][>#0T-W@T-#=Z!UM:^/J!#KK6UM1`0$!`0$!`0 M$!"V$!`0$(B(B*ZNH&J8)`J?]9\*))AJI*2DKJZ(\?'Q(NSL[.P='<:G[UKO MQNSL\60MVBDI]/3TC(R,C`:4-\Q@45'U46#,S,PW-S?,8%%18,S,S&!145%1 M45%18&#,-Y0&C/3:+61DK/'Q[.S&L>]:O;V]O;V]O5KOL6CL\63:])114<PW ME)0&C(ST]/3T]/3T]/0IVBVL\>SL[.SL[.QH:&CL[/&L9&2LK*RL9-KTC`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`9<=(]F0,# M7EY>NRHJ>M]'I:4+"V9FQ,3$,3&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AU=75U=75\_JZNKJZNJ`@("`@*JJ MJJJXN+B7.1P<'#F7*,W-S<W-S?#P\%"3M.D%!04%!04%5555!6QL34U-34U- M34U-3<'!Z.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ.CHZ$1EIJ:FIJ:FIJ:#@X.#H:'D MZZN<Y(.#941*2M/F+N;32DI*2$AP<'!P<'!PX>'AX>'AX>'A)R?>#0T-#0T- M#0T-#0T-#0T-#0W>)^'AX7!P&!@8&-88<-;6X>'AX2?>#0T-#0T-WI_6UKX^ MH*!#M;6U$!`0$!`0$!`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`9<=(]F9D#7EZ[*BIZW]]'I0MF9L3$,3$QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?/ M5U?JZNKJZNKJZNJ`@("JJJJXN+B7.3D<'!PYERC-S<W-S<W-\%"3Z;3I!04% M!;2TM+2T56QL34U-34U-34U-3<'!Z.CHZ.C!P>CHZ.CHP<'HZ.CHZ.CH1$1E MIJ:F@X.#@X.#@X.AH>2<Z^N<H8.#941*2M,NYM/32DI$<&5E9>'AX>'AX>'A MX:$G)R<GW@T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#=XG)^'A<'`8OKZ^OKX8&-;6UN'A MX2?>W@T-#0W>)X'6)+X^H$-#M;40$!`0$!`0$!`0$!`0M8B(KJZ@H*!JF"0D M"I\7]9\*))AJI*Z(B-RY[!W&MK:GIZ?O[W[OIZ?&[.SQK&1D+=K:*2GT](R, M!I0WS,S,8&!145%145%145%145%1S#<W-S?,8%%145%18,PWE(R,]"G:+:RL M\>SL[&BQ6KV]O;V]6EJQ:.SLK&0M*8PW46"4C(ST*=K:+2TM+2W:VMHI*2DI MVF2L\>SL[.SL[.SL[.SL\:QD9&1D9&0MVBGT]/2,<7$9L+"PL+"P4U/M[>WM M[>V+-,5G3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F) MB8F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$R)B8F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$P/#TQ,3$R)B8G)R<G)R<D6%A86%A945%14 M5%145%145%145%145)*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DE14%A;)R<F)B4Q,3&?%-(OM ML+`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`@("JJJJJN+B7ESDY.1P<.9<H M*"@H*,W-S5"3D[3IM+2TM+2TM+2T5<Y-34U-31(2$A+!P<'!Z.CHZ.C!P<'! MP<'!P<'!P41$Z.A$1$2FIH.#@X.#@X.#@Z'DG)SKZYSDH8.F941*2M,NYM-* M2D1$967AX:&AH:&AH:&A)R?>WMX-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#=XGX>%P M<$B^OKZ^OKZ^&-;6UM;6X>$GWMX-#=XGX=;6OCZ@H$.UM1`0$!`0M;6UM;6U MM;6UB(BNKJ"@:FHD)"0*@9_U%Y\*))AJI*Z(W+FYMK:G[^_O[^_O[Z>GQAWL M[/'QK*QD+2W:,"DI](R,!I0W-S<WS,Q@45%145%145%145%18,PW-\S,45%1 M45%1S#>4C(ST*=HM9*SQ[.SL:+%:O;V]O;U:6K%H[/&L+=KTC,Q18)2,C/0I MVBUD9&1D9&0M+2W:VMK:VF2L\>SL[.SQ\?'Q[.SL\:QD9&1D9"W:*2@9L+!3 M4U-3[5-34U-34U-3L+"P4U/MBS3%9P],3$Q,3$R)B8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)R<G) MR<G)R<G)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B4Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,3$R)B4Q,3$Q,#P]G9V=G9V=G9V</#P]G#P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/3$Q, M3(F)B<G)R<G)R<D6%A86%A86%A86%A86%A945%145%145)*2DI*2DI*2DI*2 MDI)45%06%A;)B8F)3$P/9\4T[5.P&1EQTM+2/9D#7KN[*BHJ>M]'"V9F9F9F MQ,3$AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX=Q<7%QTM+2TM+2TG%Q<7$9&1D9&;"PL+"PL+"P&1D9 M&;"PL+"PL%-34^WMBXN+-#0TQ<7%Q<7%Q<4T-#0T-(N+[>WM4U-34U-3[>WM M[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[5-3L+`9&7'2/9F9`P->NRHJ>M]'I0L+ M9F9FQ,0QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>`ZNJ`@("` MJJJJN+B7EY>7.1P<.3F7EY>7ERC-S<U0D[3IM+2TM+2TM+2T5<Y-34U-31(2 M$A+!P<'!Z.CHZ,'!P<'!P<'!P<'!IL'!1$1$1*:F@X.#@X.#@X.AH>2<G.OK MZ^2A@X.F941*T^8NT]-*1$1E9>&#H:&A)]X-#0W>#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T- M#0T-#0T-#0W>WB?AX>%P2+Z^OKZ^OKZ^OM;6UM;6UN'A)][>WB?AUM:^/CZ@ M0T.UM1`0$+6UM;6(B(B(B(BNKJZ@H&IJ:B0D)`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`P.9`UZ[NRIZWT='I0L+9F9FQ#&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX=Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7$9&1D9 M&1FPL+"P4U-34U-34U-34^WM[>V+BXLT-#0T-,7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<7%-#2+ MB^WM4U/M[>WM[>WM[>WM[5-34U/M[>WM[>WM[>WM4U-3L!D9&1EQTM(]/9F9 M`UZ[*BIZWT='I0MF9L0Q,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX"`JJJJJKC-EY>7ESD<.3F7EY>7EY?-S<U0DY.TM+2T MM+23M+2T5<Y-34U-31+!P<'!P<'!Z.CHZ,'!P<'!P<&FIJ:FIJ:FP<&FIJ:# M@X/DY.3DY.3DY)SKZ^N<Y*&#@Z9E1$I*T^;FTTI*1&5EX8.AH:$-#0T-#0T- M#0T-#0T-#0W>W@T-#0T-#0T-WM[>)R<G)R?AX7!P2+Z^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OM;6 MUM;6X>'AX8'6UM:^/J"@0[6UM1`0$+6UM8BNKJZ@H*"@H&IJ:FHD)"0D"H&? M%_7UGX$D))AJI(C<N;;OI[:VMK:VQL8=[.SL\?'QK*RLK&1D+2TMVBDI](R, MC`8&!HR,!I3,8%'U45%145%145%145%145%18&!@8&#,-P:,]"G:+62L\>SL MQFBQ[UJ]O;V]O;U:[VCL\63:*8R48%',E(ST]"G:+61DK*RLK*RLK&1D+2TM M+62L\>SL[.SQK*RL\?'Q\0L+"PL+"Z5'WRI>F=)Q<1FP[8LT-#0TBXN+BXOM MBXLT-#0T-,5G9P],3$Q,B8F)B8F)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F) MB8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,#P\/#P\/#P\/#TQ,#P\/#P\/#P\/3$Q,3$Q,3`\/9\7% MQ<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<4T-(N+BXN+BS0T-#3%Q<7%Q<7%Q<5G9P],3$Q,3$R)B8F) MB8F)R<G)R<G)R<D6%A86%A86%A865%145%14DI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DE14%A;) MR<F)B4Q,#V?%-#2+[5-3&1EQTM+2TM+2TCV9`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`0$+6UM:ZNH*"@ MH#X^/FHD)"0D)`H*@9^?%_47GPHDF&IJI(C<MK:VML8='>SL[.SL\?'QK*RL MK*QD9&1D+2TMVC`I]/2,C(R,C(R,C`8WS%%145%145%18&!@8&#,S,PW-S<W M-S<W!HST*=HM9*SQ[.SL:+'O6EJ]O;V]O;U:[VCLK"W:]`;,45$W!HST]"DI MVBUD9&1DK*RLK*QD9"TM+61DK/'L[/&LK&1F"Z5'I:6EI:6EI4='WWHJNP.9 MTG&P[8O%9V</3$Q,3`\/#V</#P]G9P\/#TQ,3$R)B8F)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G) MR<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,3`]G9V=G9V?%Q<7%9\7%Q<5G M9V=G9P\/#P\/#V=GQ<4T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-(N+B^WM4U-34U/MBXLT-#0T M-#0T-#0TQ<5G9V=G#P],3$Q,B8F)B8F)B8F)R<G)R<D6%A86%A865%145%14 M5%22DI*2DI*2DI*2DE145%06%A;)R8F)3$Q,#P]G9\7%Q32+[>U3L!D9&7%Q MTIF9F9D#`P->NRHJ*GK?1T>E"PMFQ,3$Q,1F9@L+9F;$Q#&'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<9&1D9L+"PL+!34U-3[8N+BS0T-#0TQ<7%Q6=G9V=G M9V=G9P\/#V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V?%Q<7%-#0T-#2+BXN+BXN+[>U34U-3[5-3 M4U-34U-34["P&1D9<7%Q<=+2TCV9`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`0$+6UM:ZNH*"@/CZ;)"0D)"0*"H&!GY\7]1>?@0HDF&JDKHBYMN^V MQNSL["+Q\?'QK*QD9&1D9&1D9&1D+2TMVMHI*?3TC/3T]/3TC(R4S&!145%1 M46!@S,S,-Y24!@:,C`8&!@8&C(STVBUDK/'L[.QHL>]:6KV]O;V]O;U:[VCL MK"TI]`;,45',!HST]"DIVBTM9&1DK*RLK*QD9"TM+61DK/'IAX>'AX>',<3$ M9F8+"PNEI4??*KL#F3T]TG$9L%/M-,5G9P\/#TQ,3$Q,#P\/3$Q,3$R)B8F) MB8G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A86R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R8F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,#P\/ M9V?%Q<7%Q<4T-#0T-#0T-#0T-#0T-,7%9\7%-#0T-#0T-#2+BXN+BXN+BXN+ MBXOM[5-34U-34U-34^WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[8N+BXLT-,7%9P\/3$Q,3$R)B8F) MB<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A945%145%14DI*2DI*2DI*25%145%14%A86R<G)R8F) MB4Q,3$Q,3$Q,9\4T-.U3L+`9&7'2TM+2/3V9F0,#7EZ[*M]'I0L+9F9F"PNE MI:5'1T>E9L0QAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>PL%-34U/M[>V+BS0TQ<7% MQ6=G9V</#P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/#P\/#P]G9V=GQ<7%Q<7%Q<4T-#0T M-#2+BXN+[>WM[>WM4U-34U.PL!D9&1EQ<=+2TM+2/3V9`UZ[*GIZWT>E"V9F M9F9FQ,0Q,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>7S<W-*"C-S<W-4).TM+2T MM+23M+2TM%5L34U-31(2P<'!P<'!P>CHZ.CHP<'!P::FIJ:FIJ:FIJ:F@X/D MY)SKZ^OKJ^OKG.2AH8.#@Z9E941$2M/FYM-*2D1E@X.AH:$-#0T-#0T-#0T- M#=[>WB<G)^'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'A<'!P<'`82$B^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^ MOK[6UM;6UM:^OCX^H*!#0[6UM1`0$!"UM:ZNH*`^/B0D)"0D"@J!@9^?%_7U M%Y^?"B0D:FJDB-RYMK:V'>PB\?'Q\:RL9*2DI*2DI*2DI&1D+2TM+=HI*?3T M]/3T*2GT](P&-\Q145%146#,S#>4!HR,C/3TC(R,C(R,C/0I+62L\>SL[&AH ML5I:O;V]O;V]O;U:[VCLK"W:](PW45',E(ST*2G:VMHM+61DK*RLK*QD9"W: MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<QQ&9F"Z5'WRI>`P.9/=)Q<1FP4^WM[>V+BS0T MQ<7%Q<5G9P],3$R)B8F)R<G)R<G)R186%A86%A86%A86%A;)R<G)R<G)R<G) MR<F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,#P\/9V=GQ<4T-(N+B^WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[>WMBXN+BXN+ M[8N+BXN+B^WM[>WM[>WM[>WM[5-3L+"PL+"PL+"PL%-34U-34U-34U-3L+"P M4U-34^V+-,5G#TQ,3$Q,B8F)B<G)R<G)R186%A86%A86%A945%145%14DI*2 MDI)45%145%145!86%A;)R<G)R8F)B8F)B8E,3$P/#V?%-(OM4[`9&;"P&1EQ MTCT]F0.[>M]'I0L+9F9F"PNEI4??WT>E9F;$Q#$Q,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?M M[8N+BXN+BS0TQ<5G9V=G9P\/3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`\/#TQ,3$Q,3`\/#P]G M9V=G9V=GQ<5G9\7%Q<7%-#0T-(N+B^WM[>U34U.PL+`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`0$!"UM8BNH*`^ MFR0D)`H*@9^?GQ?U]1<7GX$*)"1J:J2NB+FVMK:V'>SQ\?&LK&2DI*2DI*2D MI*2DI&1D+2TM+=HI*2GT*2DI*2DI](R,E#=@4?518,S,-Y0&C(ST]"DI]/3T M](ST]"G:+:SQ[.SL:&BQ[UJ]O;V]O;V]O;U:L<;LK&3:*8R48%',E(ST*2G: MVMHM+61DK*P_AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AS'$"Z5'WWHJNUX# M`YF9/3W2<1D9L%-34^WMBXN+-,5G9P],3$Q,3(F)B8G)R<G)R186%A86%A86 M%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)B4Q,3$P/9V?%Q<4T-#2+B^WM4U.P ML+"PL+"PL%-34U-3[>WMBXN+[>WM[5-34U-34U-34U-34U-3L+`9&1D9&1D9 ML+"PL+"P4["PL+!3L+"P&;"PL+"P4^V+-,7%9P\/3$Q,3(F)B8F)B<G)R<G) MR<G)R<G)%A86%A945%145%145%145%145%145%06%A86%A;)R<G)R<G)R8F) MB8E,3$Q,3`]G9\4T-(N+B^U34[`9TCT#NWK?1Z6E"PMF9F9F"T='W]]'I0L+ M"V;$,3&'AX>'AX>'AX>+BXN+BS0TQ<5G9V</#TQ,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P\/#P\/#V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9\7%Q<7%-#2+B^WM[>U34["P M&1EQ<7%QTM(]/9F9`UZ[*M_?1T>EI0MF9F;$,3&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<QQ,3$9F9F9F9FQ,3$,8>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'Z;2TM+23M+2TM`5L34T2$A+! MP<'!P<'!Z.CHZ.CHZ,'!P::FIJ:FIJ:FIJ:F@^3DZ^NKZ^OKG.2A@X.FIJ9E M965$1$I*T]O;TTI*1&6#@X.AH:$-#0T-WB<G)R<G)R<G)R?AX>'AX>'AX7!P M<'!P<'!P<'`82+Z^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^.SZ@H*!# M0[6UM1`0$!`0M;6NH*`^)"0DU@J!GY\7]?7U%Y^?"B0D)&IJI*Z(W+FVMK:V M'>SQ\:QDI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DI"TM+2TM+=HI*?3T*2DI*2DI](R,!I3,8%%1 M8,PWE`:,C(ST*2DI*2GT]/3T*=HM9*SQ[.QH:+'O6KV]O;V]O;V]6EJQ:.SL MK&0M*8R48%',!O0I*=K:VBV'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>',<1F"PNE1]_?>KM>`YF9F9D]/3W2TG%Q&;"P4U-3[8LT-,7%9V</#TQ, M3(G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)B4Q, M3$P/9V?%-#2+[>U34["PL!D9&1D9&1D9&1D9L+"PL+"PL%-34["P&1D9&1D9 M&1D9&1EQ&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9L+"PL+"PL+"P&1D9&;"PL+"P4^WMBXLT M-,5G#TQ,3$R)B8F)B8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)%A86%E145%145%145%145%14 M5%145%14%A86%A86%A86R<G)R8F)B4Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`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`0$!`0M;6NH*`^)"36UH&?GQ?U]1>?GPH* M)"28:FJ@I*Z(W+FVMN^VQNSQ\:RDI*2DI*2DI*2DI*2DI"TM+2TMVC`I]/3T M*2DI*2GT](R,C`8WS%%18,PWE`:,C/3T*2DI*2DI]/0I*=HM9/'L[,9HL5I: MO;V]6EI:6N_O[[%H[.SQK&0M*8R48%$W5H>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>',<1F"PNEI:5'WWHJ*KM>`P,#F9F9F9F9/3W2 MTM)Q&1FP4U/MBS3%9P],3(F)B<G)R<D6%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86 M%A86%A;)R<G)R<F)B8F)3$Q,3$P/#V?%Q32+4["P&1D9L!D9&1D9&1D9&1D9 M&1D9&1D9&1D9<7%Q<7%Q<7%Q<=+2/3W2TG%Q&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9 M&1D9&1D9&1D9L+"PL%-3[>V+BS3%9P],3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B8F)R<G)R<G) MR186%A865%145%145%145%145%145%145!86%A86%A86%A;)R<F)B8F)B8F) MB8F)B4Q,3`]GQ32+B^U3&7$]7KMZWT='1Z6E1T='1T='1]]'1Z6EI0L+"V;% MQ<5G9P\/3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P\/#P\/ M#P\/#P],3$Q,3$Q,3`\/9\4TBXOM4[`9&7%QTM(]/9F9`UY>NRHJ*GIZWT=' MI:4+"V9F9F;$Q#$Q,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AS&',3$Q,<3$9F9F"PL+ M9F9F"Z6E1T='1T='1Z6EI0L+"V;$,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>`P<'!P<'!P>CHZ.CHZ.CHP<'! MP::FIJ;!P<'!IJ:F@^3DZZOKZYSDY(.#@Z9E941$1$1*2DK3T]O;TTI*1&6# M@X.AH:$-ZPVAH:&AH:&AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>%P<'!P<'!P<'!P&$A(OKZ^OCL[ M.SL[.SL[.[Z^OKZ^OKZ^OKZ^OCL[.SL[.SX^H*!#0[6UM1`0$!`0M;6NH*`^ M)"36UI^?%_7U%Y^!"B0D))AJ:J"@KHB(W+FVMN^VMNPB\62DI+.SLZ2DI*2D MI*2DI"TM+2W:VBGT]/3T]"DI*2GT](R,C`8WS%%14<S,-Y0&C(ST]"DI*2DI M*2DIVBUDK/'L[&BQ6EJ]O;U:[[&QL6AH:.SL[/'QK&3-AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<QQ&9F"PNEI4=' M1]]Z*BJ[N[N[N[N[7@,#`YF9F9F9/3W2<1FP[8LT9P],B8F)R<G)R<D6%A86 M%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<F)B8F)3$Q,3$P/#P]GQ32+ M[5-3L+"P&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9L+`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`0M;6NH#YJ)"36@9\7]?47GX$*)"0DF&IJ:J"NB(C<N;FVMN^V MMATB\62DI+.SLZ2DI*2DI*2DI*0MVMK:*2GTF)CT]/0I*?3TC(R,!I3,8%%1 M46#,S#>4!HR,]/0I*=K:VMK:VBUDK/'LQFCO6KV]O5KOL6C&[.SLZ8>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AS'$Q&9F9@NE1T='1T='1T='W]]Z>BHJ*BJ[NUY>`YD]<1D9 M4^TTQ0],3(F)B8G)R<G)R186%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG) MR<F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,3`]GQ32+[>U34["PL!D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9<7'2 MTCT]/3T]/3T]/3V9F3T]F3T]TG%Q&1D9&1D9&1D9&1D9&7%Q<7%Q<1D9&1D9 M&1FPL%-3[>V+BS3%Q<5G9P],3$Q,3(F)B8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<D6%A86 M%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R8F)3$Q, M#V?%-(OML!EQTIE>*GK?1T='1T??WWIZ>M_?W]],3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,B8F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`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`0M;6NH#Z;)-:!GQ<7]1>?@0HD)"28 M:FIJH*"NB(C<N;FVMN^VMATB\:RDI*2SI*2DI*2DI*2DI*0MVMK:*2GTF)CT M]/3T]/2,C`:4-\Q@4?5145%@8&#,-Y0&C/0I*=K:VMK:+2UD\>SL:+%:6KV] M#H>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AS'$Q&8+"PL+I0L+ MI:6EI4='1]_?>KM>`YG2<1FP4XLTQ6</3$R)B8F)R<G)R<G)R<D6%A86%LG) M%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)3$Q,3$P/9V?%-(OM4U.PL!D9&1D9 M&1EQTM+2TM+2TM+2TM+2TCT]/3V9F9F9F9F9`P->7EY>7@,#F9F9/=+2<7%Q M<1D9&1D9<7%Q&1D9&1D9&1D9&1FPL+!34^WMBS0TQ<5G9P],3$Q,3$R)B8F) MB8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<D6%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86 M%A86R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)3$Q,3`]G-.U3L!G2/0->*M]'1T='1T??>GIZ>GI, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3(F)3(F)B8E,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P\/#P]G9V=G M9V=G9V?%Q<7%-#0T-(N+[>WM[5-3L!EQTCV9`[LJ*GIZ>GK?W]]'I:6E"Z6E M"V;$Q#$Q,3$QQ,1F"PNE1T='W]]Z*KN[7EY>7KN[NUY>`YD]/9F9`P.[*BHJ M*BHJ*BJ[NUY>7KN[*BHJ*GIZWT='I:4+9F9F9F9F9F;$Q,0QAX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>',<1F M"PNE1]]Z>GJJIJ:F3>3DG.NKG.3D@Z9E941$1$I*2DK3T]/;V]O32DI$1&6# M@Z&AG.OK#:&AH>'AX>'AX7!P<'!P<'!P<'!P<'!(<'!P<'!(2$B^OKZ^.SL[ M(2$A(2$A(3L[.[Z^OKZ^OKZ^.SL[.[Z^OKZ^OCX^H*!#KK6U$!`0M;6NH#XD M)-:?G][U%Y^?"@HD)"28:FIJH*"NB(C<N;FVMN^VMAWL\:RLI*2DI*2D9&1D M9&2DI*0M+=K:,"GT]/3T]/3T](R,E#?,8%%1]5%145%145%18,R4C(ST*2G: MVMK:+60$AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX<Q,<3$Q,1F9F9F"Z5'1T??WWHJNUX#/=(9L%/M[8LT-,4/3$Q, MB8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R8F)B8F)3$Q, M3`]G9\4TBXOM4U.PL+"PL+"P&1D9<7'2TM+2TM+2TM+2/3V9F9F9`P,#`P-> M7KN[N[M>7EY>7EY>`YF9/3T]TM)Q<7%Q<7%Q<=)Q<7%Q&1D9&;"PL+"P4^WM MBS3%9V</#TQ,3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8F)B<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86 M%A86%A;)%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<F)B8F)B4Q,3$P/#V<TBU.P&7'2 M/9D#7BIZW]_?W]_?>M],3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,3`\/#V=GQ<4T-#0TQ33%Q<4T-#0T-#2+BXOM[5.PL+`9&=(]F0,#7KN[ M*BIZ>M]'I:6E"PL+"PL+"V9F9F9F9@NE1]_?WWHJNUX#/=+2TCT]F0,#`P,# M`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`0$+6NH#XD)-:?WO7U%Y^!"B0D))B8:FIJH*"NB-RYN;:VMN^V MMAWL\?'QK*RLK*RLK*RLK&1D9*0M+2W:VBDI*?3T]/3TC(R4S&!145%18&!@ M45%145%146!@.8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>',3'$9@NEWWIZ>GHJ*BJ[ M7@,]TAD9L%/MBS0TQ<5G9P],3$R)B8F)B8F)B8G)R8F)B8F)R<G)R<G)B8F) MR8G)R<G)R<G)B8F)B4Q,3$P/9\7%-#0TBXOM[>WM4U-34["P&7'2TCT]/3T] M/3W2TM+2/3T]/9F9`P->N[LJ*GHJ*BHJ*KN[7EY>`P,#F9F9F3T]TG%Q<7'2 MTCW2<7%Q&1D9&1D9&;"P4U/MBXLTQ6=G9P],3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F)B8F)B<G) MR<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A;)R<G)R8F) MB8E,3$Q,#V?%-(OM4[`9&7'2TCV97KLJ>M_?1]],3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$P/9V?%-#0T-(LT-#0T-#0T-#0T-(N+BXN+[5-3 ML+`9&7'2TCV9`UZ[NRHJ>M_?1T='1Z6EI4='1Z6EI4='1]_?>BJ[7@,#F9G2 M&1FPL!D9<7'2TM(]/3W2/=(]F0->7KLJ*BHJ*KN[NUY>7KN[NUY>7EX#`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`8W8%%145$<AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AS'$9J5'W]]Z*EX#`P.9/=)Q&5/M[8N+-#0TQ<7%9V</#TQ,3$Q,B8F) MB8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,#V=GQ<7%-#2+BXOM M[>WM[>WM[5,9&7'2TM+2TCW2/3T]F9F9F3V9F9D#7KN[*BIZ>M_?W]_?>GHJ M*BHJ*BJ[7EX#`P.9F3W2TM+2TM+2TM)Q<7%Q<1D9&;"P4U/M[8N+-,7%9P\/ M3$Q,3$Q,3$R)B8F)B8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86%A86R<G)R<G) MR<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)B8F)3$Q,3$P/9V<TB^U3L+`9&7'2/9F9`UY>*GI, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3(E,3$Q,3$Q,3`]G9\4T-(N+BXOM[>V+BXN+ MBXN+[>V+BXN+B^WM4U.PL!EQ<7%QTCV9`UZ[NRIZ>GK?1Z6E1T='W]_?WWHJ M*KN[7@.9F3T]TG$9L+!3[>WM[>WM4[`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`YF9/7$9L%/M[8N+ MBXN+-,7%Q<7%9V</3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$R)B8E,3$Q,3(F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,3$Q, M3$P/#V=GQ30T-#0T-(N+B^WM[>WM[>WM[5-3L!D9<7'2TCT]/3T]/3T]/3V9 MF0->NRIZ>M_?W]_?W]]'1T='W]_?WWIZ*BHJN[M>`P.9F3T]/3W2TM)Q<7%Q M<1D9&1FPL%/M[8N+-#3%Q6=G#P\/#TQ,3$Q,3(F)B8F)B8G)R<G)R186%A86 M%A86%A86%A86%A;)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<F)B8F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,#V?% M-(OM4[`9&7'2TM(]F0-,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$R)3$Q,3$Q,#V=G9\7% M-(N+BXN+BXN+-#2+BXOM[>U34U/M[>U34^U3L+"P&1EQ<=(]F0->7KLJ*GK? M1T='1T??WWHJN[M>`P.9/3W2TG$9L+!3BXLT-#0T-#2+B^U3L!EQ<=(]/9D# M`UZ[N[LJ*KN[N[N[NUY>7KLJ*GHJN[N[N[N[N[N[N[N[*GK?I0MFQ,0Q,8>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX<Q9@NE1]]Z*KM>`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`P.9F9D]/3T]/=+2TG%Q&1FPL%/M[>V+-#0TQ<7%Q6=G9P\/3$Q, M3(F)B8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A86%A86%A86%LG)R<G)R8F)B8F)B<G)B8F) MB8F)B8F)B8F)3$Q,3$Q,#P]GQ<6+[;"P&7%QTCU,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3(E, M3$Q,3$P/#P]G9V?%Q<4T-#0T-#0T-#2+B^WM[5.PL%-34U-34U-3L+`9&7'2 M/3V9F0,#7EZ[NRIZW]_?W]]Z*KM>`P.9F3W2<7%Q&1FPL%/MBS0T-(N+BXOM M4[`9&1EQ<=(]/3V9F0,#`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`YF9/=+2<7$9&;"PL+!3[8N+-#3% M9V</3$Q,3$Q,3$P/#TQ,3$P/#P\/#P\/9V=G9V=G9V=G9\7%-#0TB^WM4U-3 M4U-3L+!34U-34U-34U-3L+`9&1EQ<3V9F9F9/3T]/9F9`P->7KN[*GIZWT=' M1T='I:6E"PL+I:5'1T??W]_?>GHJ*BHJNUY>`P,#F9F9F9D]/=+2<1D9L%-3 M[>V+BS0TQ6=G9V</#TQ,3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)%A86%A;) MR<G)R<G)R8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8E,3$Q,3`]G9\4TB^U3L!E, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,#P\/#V=G9\7%Q<7%Q30TBXOM[>U34[`9&7%Q M<1D9&7%Q<7'2/3V9`P->7EY>7EY>NRHJ>GIZ>BJ[NUX#F3T]TG%Q<7$9&;!3 M[8LT-#0TBXOM4U-3L!D9&7'2TCT]/3T]F9F9F9F9F0,#`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`]`[MZWZ5FQ#&'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX?$9@M'WRJ[7@.9 MF3W2TG$9L+!34^WMBS0TQ<7%9P\/#P\/3$P/#V=G9V=G9V?%Q<7%Q<7%-(N+ MBXN+-#0T-#2+BXOM[5.PL!D9&;"PL+"P4U-34U-34["P&1EQTM(]F0,#7EY> M7EX#7EZ[N[N[N[LJ>GK?WT='1T>EI0L+"PL+"PL+"Z6E1T??W]_?WWHJ*KN[ M7@,#`P,#F9F9/3W2<7$9L+!34^WMBS3%Q6=G9V</#P\/3$Q,3$Q,3(F)B8F) MR<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F) MB8F)3$Q,3$Q,#V?%-(M,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$P/#P\/#P],#P\/9V=G9V?% MQ32+B^WM4[`9<7%Q<=+2TM+2/9F9`UY>N[N[NUY>`P,#`P,#7EZ[7EY>7EX# MF9D]TM+2TG$9&1E3[30T-(N+BXOM4["P&1D9&7'2TG%Q<7%Q<7'2TM+2/3T] MF0->7EY>NRIZW]_?WWK?>GIZ>GIZW]]'1T??WWIZ>GIZW]_?I:4+"PL+"PL+ M"PL+"PL+9F;$AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAS'$9J5'>KL#/=(9L.TT9TR)B<D65%22DM75U=75U4)"G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V= MG9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V= MG9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V= MG9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9V=G9U"0M75DE06B4Q,9XOML!EQTIE>NRK?I68Q MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX<Q9J5'1]]Z*KM>`YF9/=)Q&;"P4^V+BS0TQ<5G9P],3`\/#P\/ M9V=G9\7%-#2+BXN+BXN+BXOM[>WM[>WM[5-3L+`9&1FPL+"PL+"P&1D9&1FP ML+"P&1EQTCT]F0->7EY>7EY>NUY>NRHJ*GIZ>M_?1T='1Z6EI0L+"PL+"V9F M9F8+"PL+I:6EI:5'1]]Z*BJ[NUY>`P,#`YD]TM+2<7%Q<1FPL%/MBS3%Q<5G M9V</#P],3$Q,3$Q,B8F)B8F)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)B8F) MB8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B4Q,3`],3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`\/ M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`]G9\4T-(N+[>U3L!D9&7%QTCT]F0,#7KN[N[N[NUY>`P.9 MF9F9F9D#`P,#`YF9/3T]TM+2<7%Q&;"PL%-34^WM[>U34["P&1EQ<7%Q<7$9 M&;"PL+`9<7%Q<=(]/9D#`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`9TCU>*M^E"V;$,8>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<QQ&:E1]\J7@.9/=)Q<7$9 M&;"P4U/M[8LT-,7%Q6=GQ<7%Q<4TBXN+BXOM[5-34U-34["PL+`9&1D9&7%Q M<7%Q&1D9&1EQ<7%Q&1EQ<7$9&1EQ<=+2/9F9`UY>7EY>7EZ[NRIZ>GK?WT>E MI:6EI4='I:4+9F9F9F9F9F9F9F9F9F9F"PL+I:5'W]]Z*BJ[N[M>7@,#`YD] M/=+2TM)Q<1D9L%/M[8LTQ<5G9P\/3$Q,3$Q,3$R)B8F)B<G)R<G)R<G)R<G) MR<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R<G)R8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8F)B8G)R<F)B8F)B8F)B4Q, M3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3$Q,3`\/9\7%-(OM4U.PL+`9&7'2/9D# M`UY>7EY>7EX#`P,#F9F9F9F9F9F9F3T]/3T]/=+2TM)Q&1D9&;!34U-3L+"P ML+"P&1D9<1D9&;"PL+`9&;`9&7$]/3T]/3V9F0,#7KLJW]]'W]_?W]_?WWIZ M>GHJ*BIZ>GHJ*BHJ>GK?W]_?WT='1T='1T='I:6E"V;$Q#$QAX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>' MAX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX>'AX<QQ&:EWWJ[`SUQL.TT9TQ,B8G) -------- End of part 10 of 14 --------
: Also watch your mirrors any time you are turning. I just had another close : one last night. Preparing for a right turn on a two lane road. Right turn : signals on, starting the turn, and this lady behind me hits the throttle and : starts to pass me on the RIGHT. This has happened to me twice before. the I have had this happen to me often enough that I always look for it. On my ride to work in the morning I come to a stop light where there are 3 lanes in my direction. One for left turns, one for straight through, and one for right turns. All clearly marked. Plus there is a clearly marked bicycle lane. I ride into the right turn lane with my signal on and stop at the stop line. Looking left to see if I can make a "right turn on red" and when I start to move discovered that some idiot has pulled into the bike lane and is trying to pass me on the right. GRRR. I always do a head check on bike lanes. Not always for bicycles. . .
> The algorithm is classified because a military contract (or similar >government equivalent to military) has been let for this "proprietary" >design that the Feds say that NSA developed. Is there a patent? Is that >patent publicly available? My betting is that that too is classified. Unless there has been a _major_ change in the law, there's no such beast as a "classified patent." Patents exist to encourage communications and develop the state of the art. While there aren't classified patents, there are "patent secrecy orders". Suppose you invent a voice scrambler for CB radio, and apply for a patent. The Patent Office decides the NSA might be interested, gives them a copy of your application, and you get a nice note back saying your patent application has now been classified for national security reasons and you're no longer allowed to make and sell it. I'm picking this example because it happened in the late 1970s. It was probably some analog scrambler, and would have probably violated FCC rules anyway, but it did get classified. Or suppose you publish a paper on your Really Spiffy Algorithm and then file a patent application. Since it's been published, they can't gain anything by classifying it, though you can't get patents in most countries other than the US, where patent laws are different. Obviously a system of classified patents would be highly bogus "You can't sell that widget, because there's a classified patent on it. You're not allowed to see the patent, or know who owns the design, so just give us all your money and work in progress and maybe we won't throw you in jail for espionage." Some countries might have that kind of system :-(, but we don't have that here. Quite. Yet.
I am looking for comments on Xtree (Pro ??) for Windows. I am thinking of buying the product but I have not even seen it yet. Thank you... Shane Holland holland@ug.cs.dal.ca --
Sorry, I don't follow your reasoning. You are proposing to punish people *before* they commit a crime? What justification do you have for this?
Evidence given for her prostitute status, besides the admittedly questionable claim of the man on trial included: 1. Prior employment in a number of massage parlors, with women who claimed that she worked as a prostitute; 2. Walking around a truck stop at 4:00 AM wearing a lace miniskirt, a halter top, and no underwear of any sort; 3. Not having a purse or other I.D. with her. Not enough to convict her, but enough to create reasonable doubt whether a rape actually took place, or theft of services. Are you just ignorant, or lying again? The accounts on the evening news indicated that they claimed self- defense, and the judge agreed that they were so operating.
presented Since her symptoms are only pain she would do weel to seek the advice of a good, multi-disciplinary pain clinic. It is distressing to think that people are stll being told they have to "live with the pain" when many options for pain management (rather than treating MRI findings) are available. A good pain clinic will accept that this lady's problem is her pain and set about finding ways of relieveing that.
Hi, Anybody interested in buying my Labtec speaker? Labtec SS-200 Amplified Stereo Speaker System - Built in amplifier - 6 volt input - works with/without batteries - individual volume controls - treble boost switch Great for medium quality PC's sound(adlib,soundblaster..) walkman for: $15 (included shipping...) E-mail me...
So far I have only seen pictures of the new ergonomic keyboard, but it seems that the 'b' is placed on the left part after the split. However, when I learned typing in school some years ago, I was taught to write 'b' with my right hand. Is this a difference between Danish and American typing, or what??? Thanks a lot in advance! --
Wrong. I got two points, which were the 100% sample space on the show floor. By the previous quote, I guess I may drow a determinstic line? As unfair as it may seem, the difference between Chrysler and Toyota is that Chrysler needs to prove that it can build quality cars. Toyota can afford make a few small mistakes without hurting the image. After all, door seal failing on a 6-year old Stanza is not comparable to the same problem on a brand new Intreprid.
too bad he doesn't bring the ability to hit, pitch, field or run.
# ## #I remain pro-choice, but when pro-choicers compare abortion in a # ## #clinic to a religious ritual in a church, you have to start wondering # ## #a bit if the pro-life criticism of abortion as modern human sacrifice # ## #doesn't have a grain of truth to it. # # ## # ## Ah, Clayton, so I see that you have found someone new to bash. Tell # ## me, how many pro-choicers have compared abortion in a clinic to a # ## religious ritual in a church? I'll bet that you've seen "overwhelming # ## support" for this opinion in some newsgroup or another. # # #No, but I've seen the comparison drawn by pro-choicers in ca.politics. # #It is worrisome to me. But not to you? # # 1. I've been reading ca.politics for a while now, and I don't recall # seeing such a comparison. You don't read *my* postings very carefully; I'm not surprised. It was pretty shocking, and is part of why my sympathy (though not agreement) with the pro-lifers is increasing. # 2. A handful of lunatic opinions expressed in ca.politics does not # make me think that the opinion is widely held. When did I say that it was? # Clayton, I wish I knew what made you tick. Your math sucks, and you # take single instances of fringe opinions and proclaim the existence of # a pernicious trend. There's about a quarter billion people living in # this country -- some small number of them are almost guaranteed to # hold opinions that you (and I) find positively repellent. As long as # the small number is truly a small number, and as long as they're not # my neighbor (highly likely), I'm not worried about it. When they hold high public office, you should worry. # By the way, when you cite experts, remember that Carl Sagan and Paul # Ehrlich [sp?] are experts, too. If I've never heard of your experts, # I'll consider the source (you, a man who is clearly unable to master # elementary statistics and uses of statistical inference) and ignore # them. # # David Chase You mean, I don't come to the conclusions that your emotional state requires.
Yah. So? He certainly didn't earn his last one. *HOW* many games did he blow in the World Series? All of the ones he started? Oh, yes. Definitely. Therefore Morris is better than Clemens. Don't give me that shit. If Boston had Alomar, Olerud, Henke, and Ward while Toronto had Rivera, Jack Clark, Jeff Reardon, things would have looked a little different last fall. Give credit where credit is due. This lavishing of praise on Morris makes me sick. I'm willing to bet they don't finish sixth. I'm also willing to bet they don't finish first. And if you give me 3-2 odds, I'm willing to bet that they finish ahead of the Blue Jays.
The only way out seems to be death. --- " I'd Cheat on Hillary Too."
There is an interesting opinion piece in the business section of today's LA Times (Thursday April 15, 1993, p. D1). I thought I'd post it to stir up some flame wars - I mean reasoned debate. Let me preface it by saying that I largely agree that the "Space Age" in the romantic sense of several decades ago is over, and that projects like the space station miss the point at this time. Reading, for example, "What's New" - the weekly physics update we get here on the net - it's clear that the romance of the day lies in the ever more fine-grained manipulation of matter: by which I include biotechnology, condensed matter physics (with its spinoffs in computer hardware and elsewhere), and the amazing things people are doing with individual atoms these days. To a large extent, I think, the romance some people still have with space is a matter of nostalgia. I feel sure that someday we - or more precisely, our "mind children" - will spread across space (unless we wipe ourselves out); but I think that *manned* space exploration is not what is exciting about what we can do *now*. Anyway, let me quote some of this article, but not all... SPACE AGE GLORY FADES FROM VIEW Micheal Schrage (writer, consultant, and research associate at MIT) At 35, America's Space Age won't have to suffer through the angst of a midlife crisis. The reason is that the Space Age is already dead. The technologies no longer define our times, and the public has grown weary of the multibillion -dollar celestial investments that yield minimal psychic or economic rewards. Space exploration has mutated from a central focuse of America's science and technology debate into a peripheral issue. Speace is not a meaningful part of the ongoing industrial competitiveness debate, our technology infrastructure discussions or even our defense conversion policy. To be sure, America should continue to invest in satellite technologies for telecommunications and remote sensing - cheap deep-space probes would be nice too - but the ideal of space as a meaningful driver of scientific and industrial innovation is now dead. ..... Before the change in administrations, it would have been foolish to write an obituary for the Space Age. The Bush White House aggressively supported the space program and proposed spending well over $30 billion to build space station Freedom alone. Even as he proposed budget cuts in other science and technology domains, Office of Management and Budget Director Richard Darman was an outspoken public champion of big-ticket space expenditures. The reality that much of the civilian space program - from the shuttle to the Hubble telescope to the space station - was poorly conceived and unimpressively implemented did not seem to matter much. Political inertia and a nostalgic sense of futurism - not a coherent vision or cost-effective sensibilities - determined multibillion-dollar space budgets. Indeed, with few notable exceptions, such as Voyager, the post-Apollo era is the story of the gold-plated porkification of space exploration with programs and promises that delivered less for more and more. ...... While the Clinton Administration has kept on the highly regarded Daniel Goldin as administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, it seems clear that space exploration is not being positioned as either a symbolic or substantive centerpiece of America's technological prowess. The space station budget has - rightly - been slashed. Space is virtually ignored when the Administration champions its competitiveness agenda. ......
Maybe because baseball is the only business where those who are responsible for the fiscal aspects of the game preach gloom and doom. These allegedly intelligent people seem to predict bad times, losing money, bankruptcies at an alarming rate, and there's going to be an increased degradation of the product they produce. Could you imagine IBM, with all their problems, promoting themselves the way Major League Baseball does? Their stock would plummet to unthinkable depths (not that they are too far from it now :-). What would happen at GM? Where would GM be if they admitted to cutting corners and producing an inferior product because of alleged labor problems? I think it shows a lack of confidence for the people who run the game. Forget it. Word has it three divisions with a wild card is just about a done deal. It has to be decided soon since negotiations with the networks also have to begin soon.
I'm still catching up from Spring Break, but bear with me... Javy Lopez has proven, over 1400+ AB in the minor leagues, that he is ready to play in the majors. He is *not* being rushed. Players who are clearly too good for AA and play behind stiffs at the major league level are wasting their time, and may actually have a court case against major league management for keeping them, at AAA. Unless Lopez is *me* defensively (I'm 5'7'', 165 and born to play second base :-)), he belongs in the major leagues. Valentine isn't saying he should back up. He's saying he should be put in a position to *win* the job in the major leagues, which, IMHO, he would if given the opportunity. (Val, if I'm misinterpreting, please let me know.) But the players who *are* ready are 1)the best and 2) the ones most likely to benefit from being in the majors. Javy Lopez is not a middle- of-the-road prospect. He's the real thing. NOW. Again, the most important thing a player can do is hit. Lopez does that miles better than Olson or Berryhill. If his defense is good enough for Greenville, or Richmond, it's good enough for Atlanta. If he really was awful defensively, he would no longer be a catcher. See Sprague, Ed. Oh, where to start... OK. First of all, solid != good. I want good players. Solid is one of those words used to describe nice white guys who really aren't very good at baseball. Think of it as "TWG" without the caps. It's a losing strategy to say, "We have solid guys, we don't need to improve." You used it four times in that paragraph, BTW. Same for experienced. I might add, though, that Greg Olson and Damon Berryhill aren't exactly Carter and Fisk. Olson has played three years, Berryhill five, although 90 and 91 were a wash. The only difference, IMHO, between Olson and Valle is the supporting cast. "Two big bats." Hrm. I like Justice, but I find Mr. Gant's trend disturbing. Call it one and a maybe. The Braves' platoon is OK, but neither player has *any* value outside of the platoon. Bream vs. LH and Hunter vs. RH are awful. I'll leave the thirdbase comment alone. Pendleton has wasted too much bandwidth already. If the CF platoon hits .300, I'll retrace Mr. Likhani's midnight run down Forbes, and I live in NY and LA. (Got that, Mike?) And doesn't Cox call pitches, anyway? Nope. They're baseball management, possible the most short-sighted collection of people in the nation. Do you not believe this goes on, Mark? Do you think Frank Thomas needed those three months in AAA in 1990? Or Cal Eldred wasn't *really* better than Ricky Bones last year? You're mostly polite; make defensible, if flawed cases; have wit and have, in the past, admitted being wrong. That does qualify you on r.s.b. We'll make an SDCN out of you, yet :-)
I have to increase the memory in a Plus or SE (I'm not sure which since I haven't seen it yet). I did this a few years ago but I no longer have the instructions. I forget which resistor needs to be cut to go from 1 to 4 Mbs.
And some of us call them murderous bastards, but what's in a name. Just a damn minute! What history books did you read? I seem to recall that there were a few British, Canadian, American, and Commonwealth soldiers in France about that time. Perhaps you believe they were taking a vacation trip? Sure, the Lebanese want to get all foreigners out of the country so they can go back to killing each other off. REB
Not on my system.
Do people expect the Texans congressmen to act as the N.J. Republicans did? -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Steve Podleski | phone: 216-433-4000 NASA Lewis Research Center | Cleveland, Ohio 44135 | email: pspod@gonzo.lerc.nasa.gov
Since the net has convinced me not to try FastMicro (if they were still answering their phones) does anybody have any opinions on Micron Computer, Inc? Their 486VL Magnum got an Editors Choice in the Jan 26th roundup of 486/66s. Email and I'll sumarize.
Misc. P2/2 Stuff! CARDS: (Micro Channel) (6) Arcnet, Coax, 83X9648. Net Cards. (3) Serial Adapter. P/N: 90X8459 (2) Parallel Adapters. P/N: 72X6753 (2) CoProcessor?? P/N: 83X7488 (2) Memory Expansion Option. P/N: 90X9507 Expanded Memory Adapter w/2Mb. P/N: 61X6752 Expanded memory Adapter, 0k, P/N: 90X8799 Alloy FTC500/MCA Tape adapter. DRIVES: (Hard & Floppy) 30 Mb HDD, P/N: 90X9403 Model WD-336R 60 Mb HDD, P/N: 6128282, Model WD-387T 1.44 FDD, P/N: 15F7503, EC #A79541 1.44 FDD, P/N: 15F7503, EC #88086 This is what I have aquired over the past few years in PS/2 components... I have posted the part #'s, so if you have any questions as to what a component is, you can call IBM and find out! (I have no idea!!!) Make me an offer! Trades welcome! Dan Scherer (206) 453-5215 Voice (206) 996-8350 Pager
We have recently obtained a Centris 610 and it has developed an unusual video problem. Model: 610 with 8 MB/230 HD, 512K VRAM, no cards Monitor: Apple 16" When the computer is set for 256 colors and certain operations are done, particularly vertical scrolling through a window, horizontal white lines appear on the monitor (which generally but not always spare open windows). These lines accummulate as the operation is continued. If a window is moved over the involved area of the screen and then moved away the line disappear from that area of the screen. This problem is not observed if the monitor is configured for 16 colors or a 14 inch Apple monitor with 256 colors is used. I suspect a bad video RAM chip but cannot be certain. The problem has been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse. We were wondering if anyone has seen anything like this, and if so, how to fix it. Please also respond to azelenet@bigmac.mskcc.org. Thank you for your help.
I forwarded an old posting about CELP speech compression: In case you'd like to experiment with CELP, you can obtain a software implementation of the 4800 bps Fed Std CELP coder for free: The U.S. DoD's Federal-Standard-1016 based 4800 bps code excited linear prediction voice coder version 3.2 (CELP 3.2) Fortran and C simulation source codes are now available for worldwide distribution at no charge (on DOS diskettes, but configured to compile on Sun SPARC stations) from: I've since been told that the source of this is on cygnus.com in /pub/celp.speech.tar.Z I'm not in a position to; any Sun tcp/ip gurus out there who think they can marry this with netfone by the end of the week? ;-) Seriously. I think someone with real net access and two sparcs could have this running by the end of the week. Then we ask the pgp guys to add a bytestream crypto filter. Two weeks at the most. [Damn, I wish I had my sparc back... I'm stuck on a 25mhz 386sx] Share and Enjoy!
Is it appropriate for the Lord not to reveal certain things before the world (i.e., publish them widely)? These things sacred to Himself. He may place any pre- or post-conditions He feels are necessary. Moreover, there are precedents in scripture where knowledge of sacred things is withheld: 1. After the Transfiguration Jesus instructed Peter, James, and John to "tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead" (Matt. 17:9). If we were living at the time of Savior, there would be no (public) record of this event. 2. A faithful friend of Paul experiences a vision of "paradise" when he "heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter" (2 Cor. 12:4). This person heard something which Paul can not write to the Corinthians (and us). 3. There is an incident recorded in the Book of Mormon where words uttered by "babes" were "forbidden that there should not any man write them (3 Nephi 26:16, the entire text follows for those of you without access to the BOM). 3 Nephi 26:16 Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were forbidden that there should not any man write them. Some LDS scholars speculate that these words which could not be written are the sacred portions from temple we are to withhold from the world (but it could be something else). There is much we can discuss about the temple ordinances. We can discuss regarding baptisms and other vicarious ordinances for the dead. We can discuss certain concepts regarding the endowment ("the ritual"). However, there are certain elements I can not discuss with anyone (including other saints) outside of the temple. As a portion of the endowment, we receive the tokens and signs that will permit us access to Heaven. I must keep this knowledge sacred and respect the conditions under which it is revealed to me.
The subject says it all. My 1984 Chev S10 Pickup's left turn signal does not stop after turning. What cause this to stop automaticaly?. Is this a mechanical problem by the steering wheel?.
We might get further if we begin by accepting that the government really couldn't be bothered less about the political opinions of the right wing pro establishment types. Just about the only circumstances in which I could think that they would be interested in their political views would be to recruit them as spooks. They can be guaranteed to give the government line when it counts. In US history it has been the socialists such as myself who have been persecuted. Now before people start asserting that there is no mechanism by which the administration can get their new chip adopted without legal force lets try thinking. In the first place the clipper chip must have existed for several years as a defense project. Therefore this is not a party matter at all. George Bush was in any case hardly adverse to tapping calls, he was chief spook remember. Secondly the govt can quite easily apply pressure. They simply "ask" their chums who they give huge defense contracts to (motorola etc) to be "nice" boys. After all Bill is giving them a nice little trade monopoly since the chips won't be avaliable to foreign firms. Thirdly the people who consider the Democrats to be socialist are not the same as the ones who consider socialists to be communist. People might know this if the US education system did not suffer from the Mcarthyite and Dewy version of political correctness - the sort with tribunals and show trials. Ever seen Ed Meese pissed? I have, it was when he said that socialism and communism were the same thing and brought the house down with laughter. It took several minutes before we realised that he was serious. Phill Hallam-Baker
So what should I carry if I want to comply with intelligent helmet laws? (The above comment in no way implies support for any helmet law, nor should such support be inferred. A promise is a promise.)
Hi, I have a Quantum ProDrive LPS 40 MB SCSI hard drive for sale. It came with my MacIIsi and was replaced by a larger hard drive. In great working condition. Fast and quiet. Never had a problem. Asking $100+COD shipping or reasonable offer. Also for sale with the drive: Brand new mounting bracket for MacII or MacSE. It also includes SCSI data and power cable. $10 with the HD. Please reply with email or call (217)337-5710 and leave message. Thanks. Ding-Kai Chen dcg6759@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
Hello src readers, Again the misconception that Copts among other Oriental Orthodox Churches believe in Monophysitism pops up again. We had a discussion about it a while ago. Then OFM comments : With my appreciation to the moderator, I believe that further elaboration is needed. This is an excerpt from an article featured in the first issue of the Copt-Net Newsletter : Under the authority of the Eastern Roman Empire of Constantinople (as opposed to the western empire of Rome), the Patriarchs and Popes of Alexandria played leading roles in Christian theology. They were invited everywhere to speak about the Christian faith. St. Cyril, Pope of Alexandria, was the head of the Ecumenical Council which was held in Ephesus in the year 430 A.D. It was said that the bishops of the Church of Alexandria did nothing but spend all their time in meetings. This leading role, however, did not fare well when politics started to intermingle with Church affairs. It all started when the Emperor Marcianus interfered with matters of faith in the Church. The response of St. Dioscorus, the Pope of Alexandria who was later exiled, to this interference was clear: "You have nothing to do with the Church." These political motives became even more apparent in Chalcedon in 451, when the Coptic Church was unfairly accused of following the teachings of Eutyches, who believed in monophysitism. This doctrine maintains that the Lord Jesus Christ has only one nature, the divine, not two natures, the human as well as the divine. The Coptic Church has never believed in monophysitism the way it was portrayed in the Council of Chalcedon! In that Council, monophysitism meant believing in one nature. Copts believe that the Lord is perfect in His divinity, and He is perfect in His humanity, but His divinity and His humanity were united in one nature called "the nature of the incarnate word", which was reiterated by St. Cyril of Alexandria. Copts, thus, believe in two natures "human" and "divine" that are united in one "without mingling, without confusion, and without alteration" (from the declaration of faith at the end of the Coptic divine liturgy). These two natures "did not separate for a moment or the twinkling of an eye" (also from the declaration of faith at the end of the Coptic divine liturgy). The Coptic Church was misunderstood in the 5th century at the Council of Chalcedon. Perhaps the Council understood the Church correctly, but they wanted to exile the Church, to isolate it and to abolish the Egyptian, independent Pope. Despite all of this, the Coptic Church has remained very strict and steadfast in its faith. Whether it was a conspiracy from the Western Churches to exile the Coptic Church as a punishment for its refusal to be politically influenced, or whether Pope Dioscurus didn't quite go the extra mile to make the point that Copts are not monophysite, the Coptic Church has always felt a mandate to reconcile "semantic" differences between all Christian Churches. This is aptly expressed by the current 117th successor of St. Mark, Pope Shenouda III: "To the Coptic Church, faith is more important than anything, and others must know that semantics and terminology are of little importance to us." Throughout this century, the Coptic Church has played an important role in the ecumenical movement. The Coptic Church is one of the founders of the World Council of Churches. It has remained a member of that council since 1948 A.D. The Coptic Church is a member of the all African Council of Churches (AACC) and the Middle East Council of Churches (MECC). The Church plays an important role in the Christian movement by conducting dialogues aiming at resolving the theological differences with the Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Presbyterian, and Evangelical Churches. [...] As a final note, the Oriental Orthodox and Eastren Orthodox did sign a common statement of Christology, in which the heresey of Monophysitism was condemned. So the Coptic Orthodox Church does not believe in Monophysitism. Peace, Nabil .-------------------------------------------------------------. / Nabil Ayoub ____/ __ / ____/ / / Engine Research Center / / / / / / Dept. of Mechanical Engineering ___/ __ / / / / University of Wisconsin-Madison / / | / / / Email:ayoub@erctitan.me.wisc.edu _____/ __/ _| _____/ / '-------------------------------------------------------------' [As I mentioned in a brief apology, the comment quoted above from me is confused. I appear to say that Nestorius was monophysite. As Andrew Byler correctly stated it, the Nestorians and monophysites were actually opposite parties. The point I was making, which Nabil explains in some detail, is that some groups that have been considered heretical probably aren't. Chalcedon was a compromise between two groups, the Alexandrians and Antiochenes. It adopted language that was intended to be acceptable to moderates in both camps, while ruling out the extremes. I agree that there were extremes that were heretical. However in the course of the complex politics of the time, it appears that some people got rejected who didn't intend heresy, but simply used language that was not understood or even was mispresented. And some seem not to have jointed in the compromise for reasons other than doctrine. There are groups descended from both of the supposedly heretical camps. This posting discussed the descendants of the Alexandrians. There are also a remaining Nestorians. Like some of the current so-called monophysites, there is reason to believe that the current so-called Nestorians are not heretical either. They sheltered Nestorius from what they saw as unfair treatment, but claim they did not adopt his heresies, and in fact seem to follow more moderate representatives of the Antiochene tradition.
being a mere female, I have often found I can't really take the big offensive line with asshole car drivers, so I found a more subtle and nastly ooops I mean nasty way to get back at them. If somebody cuts you up, just wait till they have pulled out past you, and then gently lean over and bend their aerial, every time I have done that it has eventually snapped off near the base - which tends to go undetected for a while and is a bummer to replace.
Contrary to what others might have thought, I actually did have a SCSI drive once. It was the Seagate 296N and the ST-02 controller. I found that the controller couldn't keep up with a 1:1 interleave, so the best I could do with the drive was a 2:1 interleave and a data transfer of about 450 k/sec.
I've been using MS Access (still available from some stores for $99.00) and I am quite pleased with it. It's relatively easy to learn, very easy to use and somewhat easy to program. I highly recomend it, particularly at $99.00! I have not used Paradox for Windows, but I don't expect it to be $30.00 better than Access (IMHO).
<<<most of message deleted>>>
Yo--earth to Clayton--*my* philosophy? I have never discussed this with you. I know it's a minor point, but, gee, dude, you have no idea what economic and political principles I adhere to. But don't let that stop you--you're on a roll. Just ascribe to me whatever you want--I know you'll choose wisely. After all, I *do* believe in personal responsibility. Duh. What else would you *expect* a socialist to do? (a) Just when and where have I encouraged people not to be responsible for themselves? Be specific--but do make up random dates and heinous acts as you see fit. (b) You and I have encouraged many people to do many things. How does that in any way make our audiences less responsible for their actions? Is there a finite amount of responsibility, so (cf. conservation of energy) as I become more responsible for an occurrence by encouraging it the actual perpetrator becomes correspondingly less so? At what point does the perpetrator become completely innocent altogether? You know, this lends a whole new meaning to the term "the moral high ground". I will pass the info on. Out of curiosity, what kind of jobs would these be? What's the demographic mix wrt race, age, culture? Life's a bitch, ain't it? Man, you've got to get out of Fornicalia--have you considered someplace perhaps geographically distant but politically more friendly to you, like, say, Indiana? Or maybe Utah? I don't doubt it, but unless you can show me statistics to the contrary I will persist in my apparently dogmatic socialist belief (hey, if *you* say so) that most AFDC money really does--for better or worse in the long term--feed FDCs.
Thanks for the info. I assume that this is for MFC 1.0. Does anyone know if this will work with MFC 2.0, or what else needs to be done? Thanks.
If a large Malmute counts then yes someone has heard(and seen) such an irresponsible childish stunt. The dog needed assistance straightening out once on board. The owner would lift the front legs of dog and throw them over the driver/pilots shoulders. Said dog would get shit eating grin on its face and away they'd go. The dogs ass was firmly planted on the seat. My dog and this dog actively seek each other out at camping party's. They hate each other. I think it's something personal.
Report them to your local BBB (Better Business Bureau).
Hi! I was wondering if anyone out there could point me to where I can get the VESA specifications or any relevant books on this subject. Regards Jimmy
I have heard some impressive things about Hijakk (for Windows). Currently, I use a shareware program called Graphics Workshop. What kinds of things will Hijaak do that these shareware programs will not do? What has been your experience with Hijaak? Are there other programs that are better? Please email me, if you can help: Wayne Haston HASTON@UTKVX.UTK.EDU
Jim, please, that's a lame explanation of the trinity that Jesus provides above. Baptizing people in the name of three things != trinity. If this is the case, then I'm wrong, I assumed that trinity implies that God is three entities, and yet the same. Cheers, Kent
how can >this possibly be fair to the infants? What do you mean fair? God is just, giving to everyone what they deserve. As all infants are in sin from the time of conception (cf Romans 5.12, Psalm 1.7), they cannot possibly merit heaven, and as purgatory is for the purging of temporal punishment and venial sins, it is impossible that origianl sin can be forgiven. Hence, the unbaptized infants are cut off from the God against whom they, with the whole of the human race except Mary, have sinned. Which is why Jesus said, "Truly, truly I say to you, no one can enter the Kingdom of God unless he is born of water and Spirit" which is the true meaning of born again (John 3.5). Thus, as infants are in sin, it is very fair for them to be cut off from God and exlcuded from heaven. As St. Augustine said, "I did not invent original sin, which the Catholic faith holds from ancient time; but you, who deny it, without a doubt are a follower of a new heresy." (De nuptiis, lib. 11.c.12)
I've heard that you can score on Belfour by shooting high because he goes down a lot, and on Potvin by shooting high on him and then getting the rebound in because he plays so deep in the net. Any truth to these? Brad
C-3's bird may be flaking out and expecting to die soon. or C-3 may orbit over major users areas, and it may be needed to provide redundancy on that plane while b-4 may orbit over hicksville, and not have muc of a user community.
Did I once hear that in order for the date to advance, something, like a clock, *has* to make a Get Date system call? Apparently, the clock hardware interrupt and BIOS don't do this (date advance) automatically. The Get Date call notices that a "midnight reset" flag has been set, and then then advances the date. Anybody with more info?
To answer your irrelevant question, yes a person of color is human, but I still don't know what you mean by human being and you have merely begged the question without responding. By trying to inject the notion of race into the discussion, you muddy the waters without adding any insight whatever. The same parallel question could be "Is a polydactyl person a human being?" You still have not answered what you mean by human being. Please do so. You won't answer the question and instead drag in irrelevancies. If you want a definition of human being that does not depend on the vagaries of law, but holds solid whatever the law may rule, provide it for me. More irrelevancies. As Larry Margolis pointed out, the law has made special exceptions in order to include fetuses, but does not follow your version of human being. And as he pointed out, brain death is not a means of determining who has the rights of the living, but rather who has died. There is a significant difference. What I am wondering now is, has your argument so failed you that you feel it necessary to drag out irrelevancies and leave the thread you started? You got answers to your questions when you began baiting me, if you recall, after you had made some ridiculous remarks about Adrienne Regard and, having been corrected, changed the subject with your remarks about having a discussion of substance. If you really wanted a discussion of substance, why then do you disregard logic and substance in order to toss silly accussations, e.g. "It really doesn't matter to you..." If it matters to you, then why not define human being and seek some substance? You're not going to convince a logical person of the rightness of your position unless you apply some logic and show some meaning to your words. As others point out, one is sacrificed for the other depending on which has the better chance at survival. Again, your analogy fails. Not precedence, but possession makes a difference here. A woman's womb is indisputably her own. Also, I see you ignore my statement that you would grant rights to a fetus that would not be granted a born human being. Was that due to its inconvenience? Is it? Please cite a precedent and the basis of the ruling. You simply assert things without any support. Your analogy is not accurate and your assertions are unsupported. Try this on for size. It is not murder for one Siamese twin to kill the other in the womb. There. We now have equal arguments. But the idea is illogical. For one Siamese twin to kill the other in the womb would likely be to kill itself as well. The systems are dependent on each other for life. I'm still struggling to see anything analagous here and failing to do so. Your argument is from Fantasy Island. Your comparison is a total failure, as I have demonstrated already, and has no basis in reality, neither legally nor medically. And for you to assert that it is not a perfect comparison because of the impossible, that of coercion or oppression, is ridiculous. As I said, you give the analogy too little credit for failure. On the one hand you start this by saying you want to take a real, rather than a hypothetical, situation, then you fly off into Siamese twins murdering one another in the womb or coercing or oppressing each other in the womb when the reality of the situation you describe in now way matches your version. As I said before, decisions are made regarding which twin lives and dies in situations where they cannot both survive. And, furthermore, as I have already said, there is a difference between an equal claim to organs and a claim that is unequal. You seem to be asserting that a fetus has a claim on a woman's womb. When the fetus is born, what happens to its claim? And by what reason do you assert its claim? You haven't answered the question. The situations are not analagous. Again you avoid the question. Dependence can be transferred, and it is not as slow as you seem to think. Yes, and I'd hate to have been the one to tell Dr Gunn's children that he was murdered by a religious, "pro-life" fanatic. Please do try to stay relevant. Clever comeback. I congratulate you on the readiness of your wit. What happened to that claim to bodily organs where life is at stake? Why does this parent now have an indisputable right to his or her kidney when previously the parent did not, by your standards? What is different about the two situations? I see I have to spell this out for you since the meaning was too subtle for you. In the one case you do not recognize a difference between a fetus and a born child (you ask why a born child cannot be abandoned but a fetus can), and in this case you recognize a significant difference between the fetus and born child where the lives of the two are at stake. You can't have it both ways. Action and inaction are irrelevant to the principle, but you are wrong about the inaction anyway. Ask any of the numerous women who post here and have borne children how inactive their pregnancy was. To have a healthy, live child, a woman does more than hang out, eat as she chooses, plays volleyball like she always did, drinks at parties with her friends, etc. She behaves very differently, and the provision of her resources to a fetus may be no more voluntary than the beating of her heart, but it is far from inactive.
This might be a silly question but I have to ask it anyway. I am in the process of purchasing an EISA/VL Bus 486 DX2-66 computer and I found two places that sell machines that have what I want and have the same price. The first is Ares and they use a Cache motherboard (that's the brand of the motherboard) with OPTI chip set, the other is Micron (formerly Edge Technology) and they use the Micronics EISA/VLB motherboard. I said that this might be a silly question since I believe that Micronics is a very well known motherboard manufacturer while I never heard of Cache! I am however leaning towards the Ares machine because my impression is that they are known for building good, solid machines and they have good tech support (24 hr, 7 days/wk), and a better warrantee (2 years). Micron, on the other hand, seems to have recently aquired Edge Technologies and I'm not sure how much I should trust the company. I would REALLY appreciate any input on this. Is the Micron machine the clear choice? Does anyone know anything positive or negative about either company? Has anyone ever heard of Cache motherboards? Should I go with Micron just because it has the Micronics motherboard? etc. Thanks very much in advance for any information.
Or John Edgar Hoover's USA. yet. yet. so far. What harm is there in overreacting? This may be the largest single threat to civil liberties yet in my lifetime. The US has done some pretty heinous things in the past, and we haven't yet recovered from all of them. There certainly seems to be a historical trend towards less liberty, with occasional perturbations. Time to break out the quotes from American political radicals. Lyle Transarc 707 Grant Street 412 338 4474 The Gulf Tower Pittsburgh 15219
I totally agree. Really, the only people this is going to benefit, are those who live in the cities where the train stops. Who wants to drive to the train station from X (Lubbock for example)? It's probably farther to drive to the train station than it is to the nearest national airport.
Enemy? Sounds like that's the viewpoint of the stereotypical rednecked conservative -- 'always been commies, always will be.' I suggest you listen very carefully to the stuff Yeltsin and his people are saying and compare that with the very anti-West slogans coming from his opponents in the Russian congress. I sure know who I want to back. Oh, BTW, Germany has sure come back as a terrible enemy after WWII, hasn't it? Better to let them degenerate into civil war? Remember all those nuclear weapons in Russia. I cannot imagine that they would not be used in a civil war. If nationialists take over and, even if they prevent a civil war, most feel they must take back large parts of land that are in other countries (like Ukraine.) I also cannot imagine Ukraine giving up land without a fight, possibly nuclear. How does this affect us? Well, we are on the same planet and if vast tracks of Europe are blown away I think we'd feel something. A massive breakup of a country that spans 1/6th the planet is bound to have affects here. (Of course, there is also the humanitarian argument that democracies should help other democracies (or struggling democracies).) Seriously. Everyone has different opinions on what is stupid. My two "causes" are aid to Russia and a strong space program. Someone else will champion welfare or education or doing studies of drunken goldfish. That is why we have a republic and not a true democracy. Instead of gridlock on a massive scale, we only have gridlock on a congressional scale. BTW, who is to decide 'stupid?' This is just like those who want to impose their 'morals' on others -- just the sort of thing I thought Libertarians were against. Actually, my politics are pretty Libertarian except on this one issue and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. It seems that Libertarians want to withdraw from the rest of the world and let it sink or swim. We could do that 100 years ago but not now. Like it or not we are in the beginnings of a global economy and global decision making.
Um, what? Eddie Murray was a superb first baseman for a *long* time. Winfield as produced consistently for almsot 20 years, and excellently on several occasions. Dave Kingman's *best* year was like Darryl Strawberry's *typical* year with the Mets. Darrell Evans, too, did a whole lot more than just hit homers, which *is* all that Kong did. Whom are you talking about? Yes, Eddie Murray is marginal, but that's because he's 38 years old. He wasn't marginal for a *long* time. Not. Smith has hung around for a long time AND fielded the position better than anyone else ever has. Yount stopped being a shortstop about a decade ago, in case you hadn't noticed. One of his two MVP awards was as a centerfielder. Like whom? There are many players in the Hall who aren't anywhere near as goos as the guys you're running down. That's already the case, by some standards. But the *bad* players in the Hall are all from the 20's and 30's. Recent picks have generally been excellent. No, but who cares? Was Stan Musial anywhere near as good as Babe Ruth? Not really. But he obviously belongs there. The Hall has generally had about the top 1% of major leaguers. As more players come through the game, more will be in that top 1%. And, yes, it's pretty easy to argue that Smith,. Yount, Evans, Winfield, etc. are in the top 1%. Dave Kingman on the other hand, was a liability throughout most of his career. Of course, Garvey *hasn't* gotten a lot of HOF press, so I don't know what you mean. As for Ryan, is his W-L better than Morris'? That's what a lot of voters tend to look at. And Morris *was* awfully good for a decade, and doesn't lead MLB history in walks allowed, either.
The letter implies that both warrants were issued before the Feb 28th shootout but doesn't say so exlicitly. ACK!
: I've been thinking about how difficult it would be to make PGP available : in some form on EBCDIC machines. Don't encourage them. Let EBCDIC machines die an honorable death :)
Squeaky BMW riders.
Dear Binary Newsers, I am looking for Quick C or Microsoft C code for image decoding from file for VGA viewing and saving images from/to GIF, TIFF, PCX, or JPEG format. I have scoured the Internet, but its like trying to find a Dr. Seuss spell checker TSR. It must be out there, and there's no need to reinvent the wheel. Thanx in advance. //////////////
When the Lunar Society's $500M estimate of the cost of a lunar colony was mentioned at Making Orbit, somebody asked Jerry Pournelle "have you talked to Bill Gates?". The answer: "Yes. He says that if he were going to sink that much money into it, he'd want to run it -- and he doesn't have the time." (Somebody then asked him about Perot. Answer: "Having Ross Perot on your board may be a bigger problem than not having the money.")
I think the three-headed GM's guiding principle was to keep veterans in favor of youngsters only if they offered a "significant" advantage. At the end of last season, the contracts of several veterans with somewhat maginal contributions (Fenton, Bozek, Anderson, and a couple others I can't remember) were bought out. The idea was that youngsters could play almost as well, and had the potential to improve where these older guys did not. And they traded Mullen, because he wanted to go, not because he wasn't good enough, but I think they were a bit too optimistic in thinking they could make up for his contributions. An example from this season, Skriko was brought in on a trial basis but not kept, because of his age. I thought he was a decent contributor worth keeping around. The youth movement has its advantages; look at Gaudreau who might still be in KC if more veterans had been kept around. But you have to find the right balance.
[deleted] I am glad that I am not an atheist. It seems tragic that some people choose a meaningless existence. How terrible to go on living only because one fears death more than life. I feel so sorry for Eric and yet any attempts to share my joy in life with him would be considered as further evidence of the infectious nature of Christianity. As a Christian I am free to be a human person. I think, love, choose, and create. I will live forever with God. Christ is not a kind of drug. Drugs are a replacement for Christ. Those who have an empty spot in the God-shaped hole in their hearts must do something to ease the pain. This is why the most effective substance-abuse recovery programs involve meeting peoples' spiritual needs. Thank you, Eric for your post. It has helped me to appreciate how much God has blessed me. I hope that you will someday have a more joy-filled and abundant life.
Has anyone else been playing with that wincmd utility from PC Magazine? If so, I am having trouble concatenating string variables together and need your help. For example: temp = "path" temp2 = "file.ext" fullpath = temp+"/" say fullpath // output = 'th/' fullpath = fullpath+temp2 say fullpath // output = 'h/file.ext' So, it seems to be dropping the first few characters with each concatenations. Is it that I am out of memory -- I only have maybe 20 variables total -- the article didn't mention memory limits. email me if you have an idea or would like to see the actual source and output. Thanks for your help. -Bo
There is a nice little tool in Lucid emacs. It's called "calendar". On request it shows for given longitude/latitude coordinates times for sunset and sunrise. The code is written in lisp. I don't know if you like the idea that an editor is the right program to calculate these things. Theo W.
It looks like Dorothy Denning's wrong-headed ideas have gotten to the Administration even sooner than we feared. It's time to make sure they hear the other side of the story, and hear it loudly! Phil ------- Forwarded Message Subject: text of White House announcement and Q&As on clipper chip encryption Note: This file will also be available via anonymous file transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory /pub/nistnews and via the NIST Computer Security BBS at 301-948-5717. --------------------------------------------------- THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary _________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 16, 1993 STATEMENT BY THE PRESS SECRETARY The President today announced a new initiative that will bring the Federal Government together with industry in a voluntary program to improve the security and privacy of telephone communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law enforcement. The initiative will involve the creation of new products to accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure telecommunications networks and wireless communications links. For too long there has been little or no dialogue between our private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of protecting Americans. Rather than use technology to accommodate the sometimes competing interests of economic growth, privacy and law enforcement, previous policies have pitted government against industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement. Sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to protect electronic funds transfer. It is now being used to protect electronic mail and computer files. While encryption technology can help Americans protect business secrets and the unauthorized release of personal information, it also can be used by terrorists, drug dealers, and other criminals. A state-of-the-art microcircuit called the "Clipper Chip" has been developed by government engineers. The chip represents a new approach to encryption technology. It can be used in new, relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to an ordinary telephone. It scrambles telephone communications using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in commercial use today. This new technology will help companies protect proprietary information, protect the privacy of personal phone conversations and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted electronically. At the same time this technology preserves the ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals. A "key-escrow" system will be established to ensure that the "Clipper Chip" is used to protect the privacy of law-abiding Americans. Each device containing the chip will have two unique 2 "keys," numbers that will be needed by authorized government agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. When the device is manufactured, the two keys will be deposited separately in two "key-escrow" data bases that will be established by the Attorney General. Access to these keys will be limited to government officials with legal authorization to conduct a wiretap. The "Clipper Chip" technology provides law enforcement with no new authorities to access the content of the private conversations of Americans. To demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology, the Attorney General will soon purchase several thousand of the new devices. In addition, respected experts from outside the government will be offered access to the confidential details of the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report their findings. The chip is an important step in addressing the problem of encryption's dual-edge sword: encryption helps to protect the privacy of individuals and industry, but it also can shield criminals and terrorists. We need the "Clipper Chip" and other approaches that can both provide law-abiding citizens with access to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it to hide their illegal activities. In order to assess technology trends and explore new approaches (like the key-escrow system), the President has directed government agencies to develop a comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates: -- the privacy of our citizens, including the need to employ voice or data encryption for business purposes; -- the ability of authorized officials to access telephone calls and data, under proper court or other legal order, when necessary to protect our citizens; -- the effective and timely use of the most modern technology to build the National Information Infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and the competitiveness of American industry in the global marketplace; and -- the need of U.S. companies to manufacture and export high technology products. The President has directed early and frequent consultations with affected industries, the Congress and groups that advocate the privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed. 3 The Administration is committed to working with the private sector to spur the development of a National Information Infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer technologies to give Americans unprecedented access to information. This infrastructure of high-speed networks ("information superhighways") will transmit video, images, HDTV programming, and huge data files as easily as today's telephone system transmits voice. Since encryption technology will play an increasingly important role in that infrastructure, the Federal Government must act quickly to develop consistent, comprehensive policies regarding its use. The Administration is committed to policies that protect all Americans' right to privacy while also protecting them from those who break the law. Further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet. The provisions of the President's directive to acquire the new encryption technology are also available. For additional details, call Mat Heyman, National Institute of Standards and Technology, (301) 975-2758. - - --------------------------------- QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION'S TELECOMMUNICATIONS INITIATIVE Q: Does this approach expand the authority of government agencies to listen in on phone conversations? A: No. "Clipper Chip" technology provides law enforcement with no new authorities to access the content of the private conversations of Americans. Q: Suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation encrypted using the device. What would they have to do to decipher the message? A: They would have to obtain legal authorization, normally a court order, to do the wiretap in the first place. They would then present documentation of this authorization to the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug smugglers. The key is split into two parts, which are stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key escrow system. Q: Who will run the key-escrow data banks? A: The two key-escrow data banks will be run by two independent entities. At this point, the Department of Justice and the Administration have yet to determine which agencies will oversee the key-escrow data banks. Q: How strong is the security in the device? How can I be sure how strong the security is? A: This system is more secure than many other voice encryption systems readily available today. While the algorithm will remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow system, we are willing to invite an independent panel of cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all potential users that there are no unrecognized vulnerabilities. Q: Whose decision was it to propose this product? A: The National Security Council, the Justice Department, the Commerce Department, and other key agencies were involved in this decision. This approach has been endorsed by the President, the Vice President, and appropriate Cabinet officials. Q: Who was consulted? The Congress? Industry? A: We have on-going discussions with Congress and industry on encryption issues, and expect those discussions to intensify as we carry out our review of encryption policy. We have briefed members of Congress and industry leaders on the decisions related to this initiative. Q: Will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers? A: The government designed and developed the key access encryption microcircuits, but it is not providing the microcircuits to product manufacturers. Product manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip manufacturer that produces them. Q: Who provides the "Clipper Chip"? A: Mykotronx programs it at their facility in Torrance, California, and will sell the chip to encryption device manufacturers. The programming function could be licensed to other vendors in the future. Q: How do I buy one of these encryption devices? A: We expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating the "Clipper Chip" into their devices. Q: If the Administration were unable to find a technological solution like the one proposed, would the Administration be willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more powerful encryption devices? A: This is a fundamental policy question which will be considered during the broad policy review. The key escrow mechanism will provide Americans with an encryption product that is more secure, more convenient, and less expensive than others readily available today, but it is just one piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to encryption technology, which the Administration is developing. The Administration is not saying, "since encryption threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement, we will prohibit it outright" (as some countries have effectively done); nor is the U.S. saying that "every American, as a matter of right, is entitled to an unbreakable commercial encryption product." There is a false "tension" created in the assessment that this issue is an "either-or" proposition. Rather, both concerns can be, and in fact are, harmoniously balanced through a reasoned, balanced approach such as is proposed with the "Clipper Chip" and similar encryption techniques. Q: What does this decision indicate about how the Clinton Administration's policy toward encryption will differ from that of the Bush Administration? A: It indicates that we understand the importance of encryption technology in telecommunications and computing and are committed to working with industry and public-interest groups to find innovative ways to protect Americans' privacy, help businesses to compete, and ensure that law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime and terrorism. Q: Will the devices be exportable? Will other devices that use the government hardware?
This appeared today in the
Dale Hunter ties the game, scoring his third goal of the game with 2.7 seconds remaining in regulation. You could feel it coming on. "Due to contractual agreements, ESPN will be unable to carry the rest of this game live, so that we may show you a worthless early-season battle between those two pennant contenders, the Cleveland Indians and the California Angels. When the winning goal is scored, we WILL do the grave injustice of breaking into the baseball game -- something reserved only for the deaths of Presidents or the trading of Joe Montana to the Chiefs -- to show you the goal on instant replay. "Aren't you SO lucky to have national coverage of hockey?" It's HEIDI all over again, dammit!
Hi to all. Since all of you could also be a seller as well as a buyer, I'd like to bring this issue for discussion - what would be the best solution in case a deal became a lemon? As I understand most people selling things over the net do not grant a warranty,I am in such a situation that the seller did not state whether a warranty would be granted or not and the item I received is out of order. The seller insisted that it was 'in good condition' when he sent it and so would just return half ofthe amount that I paid if I send the item back to him and after he is sured it is bad. Is this reasonable? Basically I would like to believe the seller tells the truth. Also, I am positively to say that I've not done anything wrong which might cause the failure of the thing. My assumption here is everyone is honest - so rule out the possibility that either one of the two parties or both are liars. I would like to hear your opinion - either in here or directly respond to my e-mail address. I know there is such a risk that you could lose money. But, how can we make it enjoyable to most people and not wasting the bandwidth?
This should not be the case if they are at all reputable. Fuel injector cleaning is done properly with a can of injector cleaner solvent which is hooked up to the fuel system under high pressure. The car is actually run on the solvent during the cleaning process. The equipment to properly do this is pricey, and generally not something the average home mechanic has. The solvent itself is not very expensive ($5-$8) and you could probably make up a hose to fit your system and do it yourself, but I didn't tell you that... :-) Not many in-tank cleaners are worth wasting your money on. There has been a discussion of these products on here from time to time, and Chevron Techron (not Pro-Gard with Techron) is generally regarded as the best. It is, however, a bit more than $1.29 a bottle. IMHO, it will not substitute for proper injector cleaning if they are really crudded up. You'll have to decide if the $59 price is a better deal than spending your time and/or buying equipment to do it.
I hope there are some silicon jocks on the committee who can follow the algorithm through to hardware. While I doubt the NSA would pull any monkey business on this point -- they have to expect that the chip will be reverse-engineered sooner or later -- it's an obvious opportunity to introduce additional holes.
OK, you guys stirred up my childhood memories, so I went and did some research on the final month or so of the 1964 season. It turns out that my recollections were pretty darn accurate, at least as far as the Phillies record goes. On September 1 1964 this was the top of the N.L. standings: W L GB Philadelphia 79 51 - Cincinnati 74 57 5 1/2 St. Louis 72 59 7 1/2 San Francisco 73 60 7 1/2 This is a game-by-game description of the remainder of the Phillies' season: Date Score Opponent Lead Pitcher (starting and winner/loser) 9/1 4-3 Houston 5 1/2 Bunning (15-4) 9/2 2-1 Houston 5 1/2 Short (15-7) 9/3 0-6 Houston 5 1/2 Bennett (9-12) 9/4 5-3 San Francisco 6 1/2 Mahaffey; Baldschun (6-5) 9/5 ??Win San Francisco 6 1/2 Bunning (16-4) 9/6 3-4 San Francisco 5 1/2 Short; Baldschun (6-6) 9/7 5-1 Los Angeles Bennett (10-12) 1-3 Los Angeles 6 1/2 Wise (5-3) 9/8 2-3 Los Angeles 6 Mahaffey (12-7) 9/9 5-10/11 St. Louis 5 Bunning; Baldschun (6-7) (Cardinals take over 2nd place from Cincinnati) 9/10 5-1 St. Louis 6 Short (16-7) 9/11 1-0 San Francisco 6 Bennett (11-12) 9/12 1-9 San Francisco 6 Mahaffey (12-8) (Giants move into a tie for 2nd with St. Louis) 9/13 4-1/10 San Francisco 6 Bunning (17-4) (Cardinals back in sole possesion of 2nd place) 9/14 4-1 Houston 6 1/2 Short (17-7) 9/15 1-0 Houston 6 Bennett (12-12) 9/16 5-6 Houston 6 Bunning (17-5) 9/17 4-3 Los Angeles 6 1/2 Wise; Schantz (2-4) 9/18 3-4 Los Angeles 6 Short; Baldschun (6-8) 9/19 3-4/16 Los Angeles 5 1/2 Bennett; Baldschun (6-9) 9/20 3-2 Los Angeles 6 1/2 Bunning (18-5) (Reds move back into tie for 2nd with Cardinals) Well so far so good for the Phillies. But now it all falls apart ... 9/21 0-1 Cincinnati 5 1/2 Mahaffey (12-9) (Reds take sole possesion of 2nd place) 9/22 2-9 Cincinnati 4 1/2 Short (17-8) 9/23 4-6 Cincinnati 3 1/2 Bennett (12-13) 9/24 3-5 Milwaukee 3 Bunning (18-6) 9/25 5-7/12 Milwaukee 1 1/2 Short; Boozer (3-4) (Cards now 2 1/2 back in 3rd, Giants 3 1/2 in 4th) 9/26 4-6 Milwaukee 1/2 Mahaffey; Schantz (2-5) 9/27 8-14 Milwaukee -1 Bunning (18-7) (Phils lose 7 1/2 games in 7 days; Reds take over 1st, Cardinals 1 1/2 back in 3rd) 9/28 1-5 St. Louis -1 1/2 Short(17-9) (Cardinals take over 2nd place, Phils drop to 3rd) 9/29 2-4 St. Louis -1 1/2 Bennett (12-14) (Reds and Cardinals now tied for 1st) 9/30 5-8 St. Louis -2 1/2 Bunning (18-8) (Cardinals take 1/2 game lead over Reds) 10/1 4-3 Cincinnati -1 1/2 Short; Roebuck (5-3) (Phillies halt 10-game losing streak; Cards lead Reds by 1/2 game) 10/2 Did not play; Cards lose to Mets, Reds tied for 1st, Phils 1 game back 10/3 10-0 Cincinnati -1 Bunning (19-8) (Cards beat Mets, take first by 1 from Reds and Phillies) Whew! what a finish! And the final standings were: W L GB St. Louis 93 69 - Philadelphia 92 70 1 Cincinnati 92 70 1 San Francisco 90 72 3 Now it doesn't appear to me that Phillies pitchers Bunning and Short were really overused, at least by the four-man rotation standard of the day, until well along into the 10-game losing streak, at which time Mauch was probably desperate for a win at any cost because the Phillies substantial lead had evaporated. The way they were used at that time may have made the problem worse, although Bunning had one of his sharpest games of the year in the final day 10-0 shutout of the Reds that cost the Reds a share of the pennant. Bunning pitched a complete game six-hitter, striking out five and walking one. It would be inetersting to see, though, how the total innings for the year for Bunning and Short stacks up against the rest of the league. Also notice that the Phillies played every day from at least September 1 through October 1; while they didn't play substantially more games than the other teams, the other teams each had a couple days off during that stretch.
I am looking for software to run on my brand new Targa+ 16/32. If anyone knows of any sites which have useful stuff, or if you have any yourself you want to give, let me know via mail. Thanks a LOT! Yayayay! jamie@ddsw1.mcs.com
Do I have to be the one to say it? DON'T BE SO STUPID AS TO LEAVE YOUR HELMET ON THE SEAT WHERE IT CAN FALL DOWN AND GO BOOM! That kind of fall is what the helmet is designed to protect against. If you fall with the helmet on and you hit the same spot the helmet landed on during the drop, the helmet may not protect your head as well as it was intended to do. Conservative rec.moto'ers will recommend that you replace the helmet. If you want to be sure that it will protect you adequately, you should. HELMETS GO ON THE GROUND, ON A TABLE, ON A CHAIR, ON A SHELF, OR ON ANY OTHER SURFACE THAT IS LARGE ENOUGH TO SUPPORT THEM SO THAT THEY WILL NOT EASILY BE KNOCKED DOWN. Jeezus. My new Shoei would be $340 to replace. You think I'm going to leave it to chance? Cripe. Later,
[ ... ] Talk about adding insult to injury ... I, for one, believe that the use of civil forfeiture should be abolished by a decent administration, not continued. Instead, it looks like that ill-gotten gain will be used to help pay for wiretap equipment.
yo,yo,yo . the western digital hd will hve it marked either s,m,a put jumper on the s "its printed on the circuitry underkneth it. hope i helped i had the same problem. bye.. later daze. oharad@wanda.waiariki.ac.nz
# Are there any places in the Bible where the commandment "Thou # shalt not kill" is specifically applied? That is, where someone # refrained from killing because he remembered the commandment. No, for the excellent reason that there IS no such commandment. Aside from that, please note that the Abrahamic literary tradition is strong on narrative, light on dialog, and virtually nonexistent w/r/t introspection.
Just as a matter of interest, a self-promo computer graphics sequence that one of the local TV stations used to play quite a lot a couple of years ago showed a 3D flyover of Australia from the West coast to the East. The clouds were quite recognisable as fuzzy, flat, white Mandlebrot sets!!
[...lots of stuff about intellectual errors deleted...] This is cute, but I see no statement telling me why your church is the true church. I do presume that you know or at least believe that yours is true. Attempting to ream my faith without replacing it with something "better" is a real good way to loose a person completely from Christ. This is the greatest reason I see that these attacks are not motivated by love. They only seek to destroy there is no building or replacing of belief. This is not something Christ did. He guided and instructed He didn't seek to destroy the faith He found, He redirected it. This is what I see when people say they "love" <insert favorite group here>. And I have to laugh at the irony.
I recently bought a pack of prospect hockey cards which had various players that were coming into the NHL. I got this particular card of a Russian named Viktor Kozlov. It says "many scouts believe he will be the #1 pick in 1993". Another guy is quoted as saying "He's as good as Mario Lemieux". Anyone know who this guy is?????
: Men Without Hats - "Folk of the 80's (Part III)" - vinyl Anyone out there who is willing to part with their copy of Men without Hats, "Pop goes the world!" album on vinyl...or perhaps CD... please contact me, we wish to purchase it!
/ iftccu:talk.politics.guns / vincent@cad.gatech.edu (Vincent Fox) / 10:34 am Apr 14, 1993 / This isn't rec.guns, so maybe this is getting a bet technical, but I can't resist.... Sometimes..... Depends on WHY it misfired.... I can't imagine doing much combat type shooting single action..... Assuming the cylinder WILL rotate.... Never hurts to err on the side of safety, but if you've got one of those 'new fangled' hammer blocks or transfer bar safeties, it's unnecessarily redundant. I'd rather have the extra round. Quite true. Speed loaders are a little less convenient to pack around than magazines though. True, but this is a training function. Cocked and locked for single actions or hammer down on double actions are the only carry modes that make sense... The 80 series Colt's for example are quite safe to carry this way. Agreed. Now that I've shot off my mouth a bit, let me back some of this up. It is true that a simple misfire on a revolver doesn't cost you much. On the other hand, I've had all sorts of interesting things happen over the years. For example, I've had FACTORY ammunition that has had high primers. A high primer will tie your revolver up somewhere from seconds to minutes while you try to pound the action open to clear the problem. An auto? Jack the slide and continue. I've had bullets come out of the case, keeping the cylinder from turning, see clearing paragraph above. About the WORST that can happen with a semi auto is a double feed. This can be cleared in seconds. Most revolvers are more 'fragile' then semi auto's. There are all sorts of close tolerance parts and fitting involved. Dropping the gun, or a blow to the gun or all sorts of things can take it out of action. Many of the problems that can be cured on the spot with a (quality) semi auto take a gun smith for a revolver. In short a revolver MAY be less likely to malfunction, but as a rule when it does, you're out of the fight. The majority of malfunctions that occur with semi autos does not fall into that category. Vincint makes many good points in this post, but leaves off the opposing view of most of them. A real good starting place is Ayoob's "The Semi Auto Pistol for Police and Self Defense." In general, I'd agree, the revolver is an excellent first gun and self defense weapon for somebody that does not have the time, and inclination that is necessary for the training and practice needed to use a semi auto effectively as a self defense arm. Most cops are notoriously indifferent to firearms. If the department isn't going to train them, they aren't going to take the time on their own. There is no doubt that training is an issue. The amount of training required for effective use of a semi auto is probably several times that of a revolver. Many cops don't bother. For myself, I'd hate to be limited to one or the other. I'd rather pick what fits better with my personal inclination, what I'm wearing that day and so on. Like the Moderator on rec.guns says, buy em all! That said, I have to admit that often my advice to people thinking of buying their first defense arm is (right after taking a class) get a Ruger or Smith revolver.... (Sorry Colt fans. Colt revolvers are ok too!) If this post had gone the other way, I'd be arguing for revolvers. :-)
Probably because everyone (that is, everyone who has cable) can watch every Braves game. They are the only team that has all of its games broadcast nationwide. And if you don't like your local team, or you don't have a local team, the Braves can kind of become your local team because you can watch them every day. --I'm outta here like Vladimir! -Alan
no, sheesh, didn't you know 666 is the beast's apartment? 667 is across the hall from the beast, and is his neighbor along with the rest of the 6th floor. This doesn't seem discordant to you?
SALE: VOICE PROCESSING SYSTEM for IBM compatibles Item: DIALOGIC/41B Multi-line Voice Processing System Description: The DIALOG/41B is a PC XT/AT board that provides processing functions and call progress analysis for four independent phone lines simultaneously. The D/41B features the ability to record, playback, autoanswer, auto-dial, detect and generate DTMF tones, and perform telephone mamagement functions. With this card you can make your computer talk on 4 phone lines simultaneously. You can design your own ANSWERING SYSTEM or by one already programmed. You can build your own DIGITAL PAGER business and open up a business for VOICE MAILBOXES. Comes complete with manuals and demo software and programming libraries for C (UNIX and DOS). PRICE: LIST $1395.00 YOU PAY $795.00 For more info send mail!
Using the VMODE command, all you need to do is type VMODE VESA at the dos prompt. VMODE is included with the Speedstar 24. I have used the VESA mode for autodesk animator pro.
mjs>Well, there are just as many courses here and elsewhere that do *not* mjs>teach the technique, yet seem to be rather successful... Sure. You don't miss what you never had. Those poor sods don't know what they're missing. I guess ignorance is bliss, eh Mike? Mr. Bill
Individual leaders by total points (Final standings) NOTE: Games played and points per games not accurate !! Player Team GP G A Pts ppg Prj PIM +/- M.Lemieux PIT 59 69 91 160 2.71 160 38 53 LaFontaine BUF 82 53 95 148 1.80 148 63 13 Oates BOS 83 45 97 142 1.71 142 32 12 Yzerman DET 83 58 79 137 1.65 137 44 33 Turgeon NYI 80 58 74 132 1.65 132 26 -2 Selanne WIN 82 76 56 132 1.61 132 45 6 Mogilny BUF 75 76 51 127 1.69 127 40 9 Gilmour TOR 81 32 95 127 1.57 127 96 32 Robitaille LA 82 63 62 125 1.52 127 100 16 Recchi PHI 81 53 70 123 1.52 123 95 -2 Sundin QUE 79 47 67 114 1.44 114 96 19 Stevens PIT 71 55 57 112 1.58 112 169 16 Bure VAN 82 60 50 110 1.34 110 67 37 Tocchet PIT 79 48 61 109 1.38 109 240 28 Roenick CHI 82 50 57 107 1.30 107 82 15 Janney STL 82 24 82 106 1.29 106 12 1 Sakic QUE 77 48 57 105 1.36 105 40 -4 Juneau BOS 83 32 70 102 1.23 102 33 21 Hull STL 78 54 47 101 1.29 101 41 -21 Andreychuk TOR 81 55 45 100 1.23 100 56 4 Fleury CAL 82 34 66 100 1.22 100 88 15 Francis PIT 83 24 76 100 1.20 100 68 6 Housley WIN 78 18 79 97 1.24 97 52 -13 Ciccarelli DET 81 41 56 97 1.20 97 81 12 Damphousse MON 82 39 58 97 1.18 97 96 5 Hawerchuk BUF 79 16 80 96 1.22 96 48 -14 Shanahan STL 69 51 43 94 1.36 94 168 9 Muller MON 79 37 57 94 1.19 94 75 9 Jagr PIT 80 34 60 94 1.18 94 69 31 Modano MIN 80 33 60 93 1.16 93 81 -6 Messier NYR 72 25 66 91 1.26 91 70 -3 Sanderson HAR 79 46 43 89 1.13 89 28 -24 Reichel CAL 78 40 48 88 1.13 88 54 23 Bellows MON 80 40 48 88 1.10 88 42 4 Fedorov DET 72 34 53 87 1.21 87 72 33 Thomas NYI 76 37 50 87 1.14 87 109 0 Coffey DET 79 12 75 87 1.10 87 77 16 Kurri LA 81 27 60 87 1.07 88 38 20 Bradley TB 78 42 44 86 1.10 86 90 -22 Brind'Amour PHI 78 37 49 86 1.10 86 87 -9 Ronning VAN 77 29 56 85 1.10 85 30 16 Bondra WAS 80 37 48 85 1.06 85 70 3 Cassels HAR 81 21 64 85 1.05 85 57 -15 Murphy PIT 82 22 62 84 1.02 84 73 42 Bourque BOS 78 19 63 82 1.05 82 40 38 Granato LA 79 37 45 82 1.04 83 165 3 Verbeek HAR 81 39 43 82 1.01 82 180 -11 Ridley WAS 81 26 56 82 1.01 82 38 4 Duchesne QUE 81 20 62 82 1.01 82 57 15 C.Lemieux NJ 75 30 51 81 1.08 81 149 0 Suter CAL 80 23 58 81 1.01 81 112 -1 Lebeau MON 69 31 49 80 1.16 80 20 23 Roberts CAL 57 38 41 79 1.39 79 172 31 Semak NJ 80 37 42 79 0.99 79 70 22 Hatcher WAS 80 34 45 79 0.99 79 110 -12 D.Hunter WAS 81 20 59 79 0.98 79 194 2 Courtnall MIN 82 36 43 79 0.96 79 49 -2 Brown STL 69 25 53 78 1.13 78 56 -4 Ricci QUE 76 27 51 78 1.03 78 121 9 Kisio SJ 77 26 52 78 1.01 78 90 -15 Craven VAN 76 25 52 77 1.01 77 30 0 G.Courtnall VAN 82 31 46 77 0.94 77 167 23 Nolan QUE 72 36 40 76 1.06 76 185 -6 King NYI 74 38 38 76 1.03 76 45 -1 Amonte NYR 80 33 43 76 0.95 76 47 0 Gagner MIN 82 33 43 76 0.93 76 141 -15 Lindros PHI 58 41 34 75 1.29 75 143 25 Hogue NYI 67 33 42 75 1.12 75 106 6 Nieuwendyk CAL 77 38 37 75 0.97 75 52 8 Pivonka WAS 66 21 53 74 1.12 74 51 12 Borschevsky TOR 76 34 40 74 0.97 74 26 32 Dahlen MIN 81 35 39 74 0.91 74 6 -18 Richer NJ 76 38 35 73 0.96 73 44 0 Emerson STL 80 22 51 73 0.91 73 60 -1 Nedved VAN 82 38 35 73 0.89 73 94 18 Chelios CHI 82 15 58 73 0.89 73 282 13 Carson LA 84 37 36 73 0.87 74 30 2 Zhamnov WIN 66 25 47 72 1.09 72 58 5 Kvartalnov BOS 72 30 42 72 1.00 72 14 9 Steen WIN 78 22 50 72 0.92 72 75 -8 Linden VAN 82 33 39 72 0.88 72 60 15 Mullen PIT 71 33 37 70 0.99 70 12 21 Larmer CHI 82 35 35 70 0.85 70 48 22 Donnelly LA 82 29 40 69 0.84 70 45 18 Kovalenko QUE 80 27 41 68 0.85 68 57 10 Gartner NYR 81 45 23 68 0.84 68 55 -2 Khristich WAS 61 31 36 67 1.10 67 26 26 Sheppard DET 70 32 34 66 0.94 66 29 7 Garpenlov SJ 78 22 44 66 0.85 66 56 -25 Iafrate WAS 81 25 41 66 0.81 66 169 15 Gretzky LA 43 16 49 65 1.51 67 6 6 Zalapski HAR 80 14 51 65 0.81 65 86 -32 Graves NYR 81 36 29 65 0.80 65 148 -4 Anderson TOR 74 21 43 64 0.86 64 117 19 Zelepukin NJ 76 23 41 64 0.84 64 66 16 MacIver OTT 78 17 46 63 0.81 63 80 -42 Dineen PHI 80 35 28 63 0.79 63 199 11 Chiasson DET 78 12 50 62 0.79 62 151 15 Ysebaert DET 79 34 28 62 0.78 62 42 19 Galley PHI 80 13 49 62 0.78 62 98 14 McEachern PIT 83 28 33 61 0.73 61 46 21 Nicholls NJ 67 13 47 60 0.90 60 80 -13 Keane MON 75 15 45 60 0.80 60 93 28 Flatley NYI 77 13 47 60 0.78 60 61 3 S.Young QUE 81 30 30 60 0.74 60 20 4 Shannon WIN 82 20 40 60 0.73 60 91 -4 Fedyk PHI 74 21 38 59 0.80 59 48 14 Blake LA 76 16 43 59 0.78 60 152 18 Olausson WIN 66 16 41 57 0.86 57 22 -5 Makarov CAL 70 18 39 57 0.81 57 40 0 Smith CHI 76 10 47 57 0.75 57 212 13 Elynuik WAS 77 22 35 57 0.74 57 66 2 Stevens NJ 79 12 45 57 0.72 57 116 16 Adams VAN 51 25 31 56 1.10 56 14 33 Tucker TB 76 17 39 56 0.74 56 69 -10 MacInnis CAL 48 11 43 54 1.13 54 59 15 Sutter CHI 63 20 34 54 0.86 54 65 9 Bodger BUF 80 9 45 54 0.68 54 87 14 Nemchinov NYR 81 23 31 54 0.67 54 34 15 Driver NJ 81 14 40 54 0.67 54 64 -9 Ruuttu CHI 82 17 37 54 0.66 54 134 14 Yake HAR 63 22 31 53 0.84 53 44 5 Turcotte NYR 68 25 28 53 0.78 53 40 -2 Sandstrom LA 37 25 27 52 1.41 53 51 11 Malakhov NYI 61 14 38 52 0.85 52 59 14 Ward VAN 68 22 30 52 0.76 52 82 32 Otto CAL 74 19 33 52 0.70 52 150 2 Kontos TB 66 27 24 51 0.77 51 12 -7 Leach BOS 78 26 25 51 0.65 51 126 -6 Poulin HAR 78 20 31 51 0.65 51 37 -19 Tkachuk WIN 81 28 23 51 0.63 51 199 -14 Savard MON 62 16 34 50 0.81 50 90 2 Norton NYI 63 12 38 50 0.79 50 45 -6 Cullen TOR 64 18 32 50 0.78 50 109 -23 Cote WAS 74 21 29 50 0.68 50 34 28 Eklund PHI 52 11 38 49 0.94 49 16 8 Olczyk NYR 68 21 28 49 0.72 49 52 -1 Semenov VAN 74 12 37 49 0.66 49 32 16 Davydov WIN 77 28 21 49 0.64 49 64 -2 Miller STL 80 24 25 49 0.61 49 96 0 Poulin BOS 83 16 33 49 0.59 49 62 30 Klima EDM 66 32 16 48 0.73 48 98 -15 Dionne MON 73 20 28 48 0.66 48 55 6 Baker OTT 74 19 29 48 0.65 48 52 -21 Rucinsky QUE 76 18 30 48 0.63 48 51 14 Weight EDM 76 17 31 48 0.63 48 65 5 Zhitnik LA 76 12 36 48 0.63 49 78 -2 MacLean NJ 78 24 24 48 0.62 48 100 -7 Corson EDM 78 16 31 47 0.60 47 207 -16 Sweeney BUF 79 21 26 47 0.59 47 118 4 Simpson EDM 60 24 22 46 0.77 46 36 -14 Hawgood PHI 66 11 35 46 0.70 46 68 -9 Johansson WAS 74 7 38 45 0.61 45 54 0 Miller WAS 81 18 27 45 0.56 45 32 -1 Manson EDM 81 15 30 45 0.56 45 210 -26 Desjardins MON 81 13 32 45 0.56 45 98 19 Schneider MON 58 13 31 44 0.76 44 89 9 Goulet CHI 63 23 21 44 0.70 44 41 10 Leclair MON 70 19 25 44 0.63 44 33 11 Drake DET 71 18 26 44 0.62 44 91 14 Lumme VAN 73 8 36 44 0.60 44 55 29 Gaudreau SJ 58 23 20 43 0.74 43 18 -17 Gill TOR 68 11 32 43 0.63 43 64 4 Turgeon OTT 70 25 18 43 0.61 43 104 -26 Probert DET 79 14 29 43 0.54 43 292 -9 Wood BUF 80 18 25 43 0.54 43 77 7 Ranheim CAL 82 21 22 43 0.52 43 26 -4 Zamuner TB 82 15 28 43 0.52 43 72 -25 Tinordi MIN 69 15 27 42 0.61 42 157 -1 Paslawski CAL 71 18 24 42 0.59 42 12 0 Ruzicka BOS 60 19 22 41 0.68 41 38 -6 Elik EDM 60 14 27 41 0.68 41 56 -4 Kudelski OTT 61 24 17 41 0.67 41 28 -25 McSorley LA 79 15 26 41 0.52 42 393 0 Shaw OTT 79 7 34 41 0.52 41 34 -47 Lidstrom DET 83 7 34 41 0.49 41 28 7 Stastny NJ 60 17 23 40 0.67 40 20 -3 Ellett TOR 68 6 34 40 0.59 40 46 17 Tikkanen NYR 78 16 24 40 0.51 40 94 -22 Niedermayer NJ 78 11 29 40 0.51 40 47 8 Racine DET 79 9 31 40 0.51 40 80 8 McPhee MIN 82 18 22 40 0.49 40 44 -4 Millen LA 40 23 16 39 0.98 40 42 15 Chambers TB 53 10 29 39 0.74 39 34 -23 Holik NJ 59 20 19 39 0.66 39 72 -2 Clark TOR 65 17 22 39 0.60 39 187 3 Khmylev BUF 66 20 19 39 0.59 39 26 6 Creighton TB 81 19 20 39 0.48 39 110 -21 Krushelnyski TOR 82 19 20 39 0.48 39 60 3 Kurvers NYI 49 8 30 38 0.78 38 38 8 Crossman STL 57 10 28 38 0.67 38 28 -6 Kovalev NYR 63 20 18 38 0.60 38 79 -8 Craig MIN 68 15 23 38 0.56 38 106 -10 Krupp NYI 79 9 29 38 0.48 38 67 8 Momesso VAN 82 18 20 38 0.46 38 193 11 Kamensky QUE 31 15 22 37 1.19 37 14 13 Numminen WIN 65 7 30 37 0.57 37 33 4 Pearson TOR 76 23 14 37 0.49 37 196 -2 Graham CHI 82 20 17 37 0.45 37 141 1 Leetch NYR 36 6 30 36 1.00 36 26 2 Ciger EDM 62 13 23 36 0.58 36 8 -14 Beers TB 62 12 24 36 0.58 36 70 -24 Reid BOS 65 20 16 36 0.55 36 10 12 Lapointe QUE 73 10 26 36 0.49 36 98 4 Sjodin MIN 75 7 29 36 0.48 36 30 -25 Weinrich HAR 76 7 29 36 0.47 36 76 -10 Borsato WIN 65 15 20 35 0.54 35 38 -1 Zezel TOR 68 12 23 35 0.51 35 24 -1 Burr DET 79 10 25 35 0.44 35 74 18 Donato BOS 81 15 20 35 0.43 35 61 2 Benning EDM 55 10 24 34 0.62 34 152 -1 Howe DET 59 3 31 34 0.58 34 22 20 Guerin NJ 63 14 20 34 0.54 34 63 16 Hull OTT 67 13 21 34 0.51 34 14 -21 D.Sweeney BOS 83 7 27 34 0.41 34 66 34 Nylander HAR 56 11 22 33 0.59 33 36 -5 Beranek PHI 63 15 18 33 0.52 33 78 -6 Wesley BOS 64 8 25 33 0.52 33 47 -2 Matteau CHI 77 15 18 33 0.43 33 96 6 Broten MIN 80 12 21 33 0.41 33 22 7 Leeman MON 50 15 17 32 0.64 32 24 14 Dalgarno NYI 55 15 17 32 0.58 32 60 16 Mellanby EDM 67 15 17 32 0.48 32 147 -4 Primeau DET 73 15 17 32 0.44 32 152 -6 Gilbert CHI 75 13 19 32 0.43 32 57 5 Mullen NYI 78 18 14 32 0.41 32 28 7 Presley BUF 78 15 17 32 0.41 32 92 5 Leschyshyn QUE 81 9 23 32 0.40 32 55 22 Zubov NYR 46 8 23 31 0.67 31 4 1 Mironov TOR 57 7 24 31 0.54 31 38 -2 Bureau TB 63 10 21 31 0.49 31 111 -12 Brisebois MON 68 10 21 31 0.46 31 77 8 Heinze BOS 72 18 13 31 0.43 31 24 21 Smehlik BUF 78 4 27 31 0.40 31 59 10 Lemieux CHI 79 10 21 31 0.39 31 109 4 Yushkevich PHI 79 5 26 31 0.39 31 71 10 Evason SJ 83 12 19 31 0.37 31 132 -33 McInnis NYI 56 10 20 30 0.54 30 24 7 Noonan CHI 61 16 14 30 0.49 30 82 1 Gallant DET 66 10 20 30 0.45 30 186 20 Kennedy DET 67 19 11 30 0.45 30 46 -1 Hough QUE 77 8 22 30 0.39 30 69 -11 Gusarov QUE 78 8 22 30 0.38 30 57 16 MacTavish EDM 80 10 20 30 0.38 30 110 -15 Buchberger EDM 81 12 18 30 0.37 30 133 -24 Janssens HAR 73 12 17 29 0.40 29 233 -12 U.Samuelson PIT 76 3 26 29 0.38 29 247 37 Sydor LA 78 6 23 29 0.37 29 59 0 Duchesne MIN 82 16 13 29 0.35 29 30 6 Falloon SJ 41 14 14 28 0.68 28 12 -25 Sandlak VAN 59 10 18 28 0.47 28 122 2 Carpenter WAS 65 11 17 28 0.43 28 63 -16 Kron HAR 42 14 13 27 0.64 27 18 7 Ferraro NYI 43 14 13 27 0.63 27 38 -5 Kravchuk EDM 55 10 17 27 0.49 27 32 3 Plavsic VAN 56 6 21 27 0.48 27 51 27 Ron Sutter STL 59 12 15 27 0.46 27 99 -11 Cole TB 65 12 15 27 0.42 27 21 -4 Odgers SJ 65 12 15 27 0.42 27 251 -25 Fitzgerald NYI 74 9 18 27 0.36 27 32 -1 Fetisov NJ 74 4 23 27 0.36 27 158 7 Korolev STL 74 4 23 27 0.36 27 20 -1 Kypreos HAR 75 17 10 27 0.36 27 325 -5 Andersson TB 75 16 11 27 0.36 27 14 -14 Huddy LA 80 2 25 27 0.34 27 62 20 Rich Sutter STL 82 13 14 27 0.33 27 100 -6 Slegr VAN 40 4 22 26 0.65 26 109 16 Svoboda BUF 40 2 24 26 0.65 26 59 3 Patrick NYR 60 5 21 26 0.43 26 61 1 Jones WAS 68 12 14 26 0.38 26 124 16 Lamb OTT 69 7 19 26 0.38 26 62 -40 Osborne TOR 75 12 14 26 0.35 26 87 -7 May BUF 80 13 13 26 0.33 26 238 3 Eagles WIN 82 8 18 26 0.32 26 131 -1 Brunet MON 45 10 15 25 0.56 25 19 13 T.Green NYI 58 7 18 25 0.43 25 43 6 Stern CAL 69 10 15 25 0.36 25 207 2 Lidster VAN 71 6 19 25 0.35 25 36 9 Haller MON 72 11 14 25 0.35 25 117 8 Tippett PIT 73 6 19 25 0.34 25 56 7 Peluso OTT 79 15 10 25 0.32 25 318 -32 DiMaio TB 54 9 15 24 0.44 24 62 0 Brady OTT 55 7 17 24 0.44 24 57 -25 Freer OTT 61 10 14 24 0.39 24 39 -32 Cavallini QUE 66 9 15 24 0.36 24 34 10 Lachance NYI 74 7 17 24 0.32 24 67 -2 Shaw BOS 76 10 14 24 0.32 24 108 9 Berg TOR 78 13 11 24 0.31 24 103 2 Ozolinsh SJ 37 7 16 23 0.62 23 40 -9 Klatt MIN 45 4 19 23 0.51 23 38 6 Loach LA 53 10 13 23 0.43 23 27 3 Todd EDM 55 9 14 23 0.42 23 26 -9 Ashton CAL 56 10 13 23 0.41 23 52 8 McBain OTT 57 7 16 23 0.40 23 43 -35 Gelinas EDM 63 11 12 23 0.37 23 30 2 Bautin WIN 69 5 18 23 0.33 23 92 -2 Krygier WAS 74 11 12 23 0.31 23 60 -14 Johnson MIN 79 3 20 23 0.29 23 105 9 Acton PHI 80 8 15 23 0.29 23 51 -11 Barnes WIN 37 12 10 22 0.59 22 10 -3 Huffman QUE 52 4 18 22 0.42 22 54 0 Sutton BUF 61 8 14 22 0.36 22 30 0 McKay NJ 71 11 11 22 0.31 22 199 1 Konstantinov DET 81 5 17 22 0.27 22 135 23 Pellerin NJ 44 10 11 21 0.48 21 37 -1 Sillinger DET 51 4 17 21 0.41 21 16 0 Volek NYI 56 8 13 21 0.38 21 34 -1 Lindberg CAL 61 9 12 21 0.34 21 18 -4 Evans PHI 65 8 13 21 0.32 21 70 -9 Hamrlik TB 65 6 15 21 0.32 21 65 -20 Gilchrist MIN 68 10 11 21 0.31 21 49 -12 Churla MIN 73 5 16 21 0.29 21 286 -8 Kasparaitis NYI 77 4 17 21 0.27 21 166 14 Loney PIT 81 5 16 21 0.26 21 99 3 Courtenay SJ 38 7 13 20 0.53 20 10 -15 Wilson SJ 42 3 17 20 0.48 20 40 -28 T.Pederson SJ 43 7 13 20 0.47 20 31 -14 Lomakin PHI 48 8 12 20 0.42 20 34 14 Druce WIN 48 6 14 20 0.42 20 37 -5 Hannan BUF 53 5 15 20 0.38 20 41 10 Corriveau HAR 54 8 12 20 0.37 20 12 -20 Bourque NYR 54 6 14 20 0.37 20 39 -9 Hiller DET 60 8 12 20 0.33 20 109 6 Maltais TB 61 7 13 20 0.33 20 35 -19 Burt HAR 62 6 14 20 0.32 20 116 -14 Johansson CAL 75 4 16 20 0.27 20 60 11 Marchment CHI 76 5 15 20 0.26 20 309 13 Diduck VAN 78 6 14 20 0.26 20 163 29 Podein EDM 38 13 6 19 0.50 19 25 -1 Berehowsky TOR 40 4 15 19 0.48 19 61 1 Babych VAN 41 3 16 19 0.46 19 42 4 Audette BUF 42 12 7 19 0.45 19 51 -5 Chorske NJ 50 7 12 19 0.38 19 25 -1 Bassen STL 51 9 10 19 0.37 19 59 -4 Hatcher MIN 65 4 15 19 0.29 19 176 -26 Kucera CHI 70 5 14 19 0.27 19 59 7 Wilson STL 76 8 11 19 0.25 19 44 -7 Macoun TOR 76 4 15 19 0.25 19 55 3 King WIN 77 8 11 19 0.25 19 203 4 Beukeboom NYR 79 2 17 19 0.24 19 153 10 Carkner PHI 80 3 16 19 0.24 19 146 16 Neely BOS 12 11 7 18 1.50 18 25 4 Foligno TOR 54 13 5 18 0.33 18 84 1 Christian CHI 60 4 14 18 0.30 18 12 6 Errey BUF 61 9 9 18 0.30 18 80 1 Gavin MIN 63 10 8 18 0.29 18 59 -4 McLlwain TOR 65 14 4 18 0.28 18 30 -17 Daigneault MON 65 8 10 18 0.28 18 57 24 Ramage MON 74 5 13 18 0.24 18 146 -24 Smith EDM 76 4 14 18 0.24 18 30 -11 Paek PIT 76 3 15 18 0.24 18 64 15 Murphy CHI 17 7 10 17 1.00 17 18 -4 DiPietro MON 27 4 13 17 0.63 17 14 10 M.Pederson SJ 40 10 7 17 0.43 17 24 -20 Nattress PHI 44 7 10 17 0.39 17 29 1 Carbonneau MON 59 4 13 17 0.29 17 20 -8 Yawney CAL 61 1 16 17 0.28 17 65 5 Kasatonov NJ 63 3 14 17 0.27 17 55 7 Roberts BOS 64 5 12 17 0.27 17 103 22 MacDermid WAS 72 9 8 17 0.24 17 80 -13 Odjick VAN 74 4 13 17 0.23 17 360 4 Conacher LA 79 9 8 17 0.22 17 20 -15 Cavallini WAS 79 6 11 17 0.22 17 56 4 Erickson WIN 39 4 12 16 0.41 16 12 2 Straka PIT 41 3 13 16 0.39 16 29 3 Erixon NYR 42 5 11 16 0.38 16 10 13 Murphy BOS 48 5 11 16 0.33 16 60 -14 Ledyard BUF 48 2 14 16 0.33 16 43 0 Butsayev PHI 49 2 14 16 0.33 16 57 2 Ulanov WIN 54 2 14 16 0.30 16 122 6 Carter SJ 55 7 9 16 0.29 16 81 -25 Glynn EDM 62 4 12 16 0.26 16 58 -12 Boschman OTT 68 9 7 16 0.24 16 95 -27 Rumble OTT 68 3 13 16 0.24 16 61 -26 Stanton PIT 76 4 12 16 0.21 16 97 8 Murzyn VAN 77 5 11 16 0.21 16 179 36 Musil CAL 78 6 10 16 0.21 16 129 26 May WAS 80 6 10 16 0.20 16 266 0 Foote QUE 80 4 12 16 0.20 16 168 3 Odelein MON 81 2 14 16 0.20 16 201 35 Andersson NYR 29 4 11 15 0.52 15 16 7 Archibald OTT 42 9 6 15 0.36 15 32 -15 Taylor LA 46 6 9 15 0.33 15 49 2 Lowe NYR 47 3 12 15 0.32 15 58 -1 Domi WIN 59 5 10 15 0.25 15 340 1 McCrimmon DET 60 1 14 15 0.25 15 71 21 Konroyd DET 65 3 12 15 0.23 15 67 -15 Zombo STL 69 0 15 15 0.22 15 78 -4 Butcher STL 82 5 10 15 0.18 15 209 0 Zmolek SJ 83 5 10 15 0.18 15 229 -51 Fergus VAN 36 5 9 14 0.39 14 20 1 Skrudland CAL 38 7 7 14 0.37 14 65 4 Pantaleyev BOS 39 8 6 14 0.36 14 12 -6 Pearson QUE 41 13 1 14 0.34 14 95 3 C.J.Young BOS 43 7 7 14 0.33 14 32 -6 Smail OTT 51 4 10 14 0.27 14 51 -34 Hardy LA 53 1 13 14 0.26 14 89 -1 Broten NYR 58 5 9 14 0.24 14 48 -6 Barr NJ 60 6 8 14 0.23 14 44 3 Taglianetti PIT 71 2 12 14 0.20 14 182 15 Ewen MON 74 5 9 14 0.19 14 191 7 Bergevin TB 76 2 12 14 0.18 14 66 -16 Finn QUE 79 5 9 14 0.18 14 160 -4 Lefebvre TOR 79 2 12 14 0.18 14 90 6 M.Sullivan SJ 81 6 8 14 0.17 14 30 -42 Ojanen NJ 31 4 9 13 0.42 13 14 -2 Reekie TB 42 2 11 13 0.31 13 69 2 Lindsay QUE 44 4 9 13 0.30 13 16 0 Ramsey PIT 44 3 10 13 0.30 13 28 16 Valk VAN 46 6 7 13 0.28 13 73 5 Jelinek OTT 49 7 6 13 0.27 13 52 -21 Needham PIT 55 8 5 13 0.24 13 24 -2 Lowry STL 56 5 8 13 0.23 13 101 -18 Rychel LA 68 6 7 13 0.19 13 293 -14 McGill PHI 70 3 10 13 0.19 13 221 7 Stapleton PIT 78 4 9 13 0.17 13 10 -8 Richardson EDM 80 3 10 13 0.16 13 140 -18 Rouse TOR 80 3 10 13 0.16 13 128 8 Daneyko NJ 82 2 11 13 0.16 13 222 4 Ogrodnick DET 18 6 6 12 0.67 12 2 -3 S. King NYR 24 7 5 12 0.50 12 16 4 Joseph EDM 31 2 10 12 0.39 12 46 -6 Petit CAL 34 3 9 12 0.35 12 50 -6 Williams SJ 39 1 11 12 0.31 12 49 -25 B.Smith MIN 43 5 7 12 0.28 12 8 -6 Bozon STL 52 6 6 12 0.23 12 55 -1 Ronan MON 53 5 7 12 0.23 12 20 6 Dirk VAN 67 4 8 12 0.18 12 146 22 Hunter VAN 72 5 7 12 0.17 12 182 -5 Luongo OTT 74 3 9 12 0.16 12 68 -42 Berube CAL 75 4 8 12 0.16 12 209 -6 Wilson CAL 22 4 7 11 0.50 11 8 10 Vujtek EDM 28 1 10 11 0.39 11 8 -1 Konowalchuk WAS 36 4 7 11 0.31 11 16 4 Snuggerud PHI 39 4 7 11 0.28 11 14 -3 Murray CHI 49 4 7 11 0.22 11 57 -14 Donnelly BUF 58 3 8 11 0.19 11 219 6 Dahl CAL 59 2 9 11 0.19 11 52 9 Kasper TB 66 4 7 11 0.17 11 20 -16 More SJ 73 5 6 11 0.15 11 179 -35 Quintal STL 73 1 10 11 0.15 11 100 -6 Ludwig MIN 76 1 10 11 0.14 11 149 0 Muni CHI 79 0 11 11 0.14 11 73 -15 Lazaro OTT 26 6 4 10 0.38 10 16 -8 Norwood STL 32 3 7 10 0.31 10 63 -5 Featherstone BOS 34 5 5 10 0.29 10 102 6 Murphy OTT 42 3 7 10 0.24 10 28 -18 DeBrusk EDM 49 8 2 10 0.20 10 199 -14 Wells NYR 50 1 9 10 0.20 10 105 -2 Kimble BOS 54 7 3 10 0.19 10 177 4 Corkum BUF 67 6 4 10 0.15 10 38 -2 Dahlquist CAL 73 3 7 10 0.14 10 66 -2 Gordijuk BUF 16 3 6 9 0.56 9 0 4 Hurlbut NYR 23 1 8 9 0.39 9 16 4 Boivin PHI 30 5 4 9 0.30 9 76 -5 Moller BUF 35 2 7 9 0.26 9 83 6 Cunneyworth HAR 36 5 4 9 0.25 9 61 -1 Petrovicky HAR 42 3 6 9 0.21 9 45 -10 McRae STL 45 3 6 9 0.20 9 167 -13 Cirella NYR 52 3 6 9 0.17 9 83 4 Maley SJ 55 2 7 9 0.16 9 143 -27 Daniels PIT 57 5 4 9 0.16 9 14 -6 Hughes BOS 61 5 4 9 0.15 9 191 -5 Lalor WIN 62 1 8 9 0.15 9 74 -13 K.Samuelson PIT 63 3 6 9 0.14 9 106 25 McKenzie HAR 63 3 6 9 0.14 9 202 -9 Kocur NYR 64 3 6 9 0.14 9 129 -9 Loewen OTT 77 4 5 9 0.12 9 145 -25 Houlder BUF 13 3 5 8 0.62 8 6 7 T.Sweeney BOS 14 1 7 8 0.57 8 6 1 Douris BOS 18 4 4 8 0.44 8 4 5 Keczmer HAR 21 4 4 8 0.38 8 28 -2 Greig HAR 22 1 7 8 0.36 8 27 -11 Day HAR 24 1 7 8 0.33 8 47 -8 Werenka EDM 27 5 3 8 0.30 8 24 1 Tatarinov QUE 28 2 6 8 0.29 8 28 6 McDonough SJ 30 6 2 8 0.27 8 6 -21 Hill MON 30 2 6 8 0.27 8 47 -5 K.Brown CHI 31 2 6 8 0.26 8 37 4 Loiselle NYI 38 5 3 8 0.21 8 84 -4 Hudson EDM 39 1 7 8 0.21 8 44 -8 Hedican STL 40 0 8 8 0.20 8 30 -4 Roberge MON 48 4 4 8 0.17 8 140 3 Ahola SJ 49 3 5 8 0.16 8 36 -11 McIntyre NYR 57 3 5 8 0.14 8 82 -14 Anderson WAS 57 2 6 8 0.14 8 18 -1 Houda HAR 57 2 6 8 0.14 8 163 -21 Hartman TB 58 4 4 8 0.14 8 154 -7 Wilkinson SJ 58 1 7 8 0.14 8 96 -48 Hammond OTT 61 4 4 8 0.13 8 104 -40 Barrasso PIT 62 0 8 8 0.13 8 20 0 Kennedy WIN 77 1 7 8 0.10 8 105 -4 Eastwood TOR 12 1 6 7 0.58 7 21 -2 Quintin SJ 14 2 5 7 0.50 7 4 -4 R.Brown CHI 15 1 6 7 0.47 33 33 6 Godynyuk CAL 26 3 4 7 0.27 7 17 7 Rice EDM 26 2 5 7 0.27 7 13 -5 Murray BOS 27 3 4 7 0.26 7 8 -6 Wiemer BOS 27 1 6 7 0.26 7 48 -1 Berezan SJ 28 3 4 7 0.25 7 28 -18 Marois NYI 28 2 5 7 0.25 7 35 -3 Mallette NJ 34 4 3 7 0.21 7 56 3 Hynes PHI 36 3 4 7 0.19 7 16 -3 Gilhen TB 42 3 4 7 0.17 7 12 -13 Chase STL 49 2 5 7 0.14 7 204 -9 Vukota NYI 71 2 5 7 0.10 7 199 4 Zettler SJ 79 0 7 7 0.09 7 150 -48 Lafreniere TB 9 3 3 6 0.67 6 4 -5 Propp MIN 15 3 3 6 0.40 6 0 -8 Belanger MON 18 4 2 6 0.33 6 4 1 Kerr HAR 22 0 6 6 0.27 6 7 -11 Shuchuk LA 23 2 4 6 0.26 6 14 4 Bergland TB 25 3 3 6 0.24 6 11 -9 Vaske NYI 25 1 5 6 0.24 6 30 6 Carney BUF 29 2 4 6 0.21 6 51 2 Dinnen OTT 31 2 4 6 0.19 6 30 -19 Albelin NJ 34 1 5 6 0.18 6 14 -1 Patterson BUF 35 4 2 6 0.17 6 18 -2 Ladouceur HAR 59 2 4 6 0.10 6 107 -17 Russell CHI 66 2 4 6 0.09 6 151 5 Lang LA 11 0 5 5 0.45 5 2 -3 Lipuma TB 13 0 5 5 0.38 5 32 1 Brown NJ 15 0 5 5 0.33 5 2 3 Kozlov DET 16 4 1 5 0.31 5 14 -1 Savage WAS 16 2 3 5 0.31 5 12 -4 Bruce SJ 17 2 3 5 0.29 5 33 -14 Byers SJ 18 4 1 5 0.28 5 122 -2 Conroy PHI 18 3 2 5 0.28 5 17 0 Van Allen EDM 21 1 4 5 0.24 5 6 -2 Richer BOS 23 1 4 5 0.22 5 18 -9 Wolanin QUE 23 1 4 5 0.22 5 49 8 Leach HAR 24 3 2 5 0.21 5 4 -7 Prokhorov STL 26 4 1 5 0.19 5 15 -4 Kruse CAL 26 2 3 5 0.19 5 41 3 Richter NYR 35 0 5 5 0.14 5 2 0 Bawa SJ 41 5 0 5 0.12 5 47 -24 Osiecki MIN 42 1 4 5 0.12 5 19 -20 Matvichuk MIN 51 2 3 5 0.10 5 26 -7 Pedersen HAR 58 1 4 5 0.09 5 60 2 Jennings PIT 58 0 5 5 0.09 5 65 7 Essensa WIN 66 0 5 5 0.08 5 2 0 Ray BUF 68 3 2 5 0.07 5 211 -3 McKim BOS 7 1 3 4 0.57 4 0 2 Faust PHI 8 2 2 4 0.50 4 4 3 Smolinski BOS 8 1 3 4 0.50 4 0 3 Fogarty PIT 12 0 4 4 0.33 4 4 -3 Hervey TB 15 0 4 4 0.27 4 36 -4 Picard SJ 25 4 0 4 0.16 4 24 -17 Reese CAL 25 0 4 4 0.16 4 4 0 Romaniuk WIN 28 3 1 4 0.14 4 22 0 Thompson LA 28 0 4 4 0.14 4 79 -3 Pilon NYI 41 1 3 4 0.10 4 146 -3 Giles STL 48 0 4 4 0.08 4 40 -2 Baron STL 53 2 2 4 0.08 4 59 -5 Cheveldae DET 66 0 4 4 0.06 4 4 0 Hankinson NJ 4 2 1 3 0.75 3 9 2 McDougall EDM 4 2 1 3 0.75 3 4 2 Felsner STL 4 0 3 3 0.75 3 0 0 Ruff TB 8 2 1 3 0.38 3 8 -1 Petrov MON 9 2 1 3 0.33 3 10 2 Black MIN 10 2 1 3 0.30 3 4 0 Morris SJ 14 0 3 3 0.21 3 6 -11 Walter VAN 23 3 0 3 0.13 3 8 -2 Hrivnak WIN 29 0 3 3 0.10 3 0 0 Wakaluk MIN 29 0 3 3 0.10 3 20 0 Dufresne MON 30 1 2 3 0.10 3 30 0 Cronin PHI 34 2 1 3 0.09 3 37 0 Smyth CAL 34 1 2 3 0.09 3 95 3 Hrudey LA 48 0 3 3 0.06 3 8 0 Marsh OTT 57 0 3 3 0.05 3 30 -25 Casey MIN 58 0 3 3 0.05 3 28 0 Berry MIN 61 0 3 3 0.05 3 107 4 Ranford EDM 66 0 3 3 0.05 3 10 0 Belfour CHI 69 0 3 3 0.04 3 28 0 Rivers TB 4 0 2 2 0.50 2 2 -2 Forslund CAL 5 0 2 2 0.40 2 0 0 Capuano TB 6 1 1 2 0.33 2 2 -4 Djoos NYR 6 1 1 2 0.33 2 2 0 Cummins DET 7 1 1 2 0.29 2 58 0 Otevrel SJ 7 0 2 2 0.29 2 0 -6 Kolstad SJ 10 0 2 2 0.20 2 12 -9 Osborne TB 11 1 1 2 0.18 2 8 -1 Wood SJ 12 1 1 2 0.17 2 71 -5 Brickley WIN 12 0 2 2 0.17 2 2 0 Eakins WIN 14 0 2 2 0.14 2 38 2 Simon QUE 15 1 1 2 0.13 2 67 -2 Bennett CHI 16 0 2 2 0.13 2 8 -2 Gillis HAR 18 1 1 2 0.11 2 38 0 Carlyle WIN 22 1 1 2 0.09 2 14 -6 Nylund NYI 22 1 1 2 0.09 2 43 -2 Blue BOS 22 0 2 2 0.09 2 6 0 Watters LA 22 0 2 2 0.09 2 18 -3 Woolley WAS 23 0 2 2 0.09 2 10 0 Whitmore VAN 29 0 2 2 0.07 2 2 0 Stauber LA 30 0 2 2 0.07 2 2 0 W.Young TB 31 0 2 2 0.06 2 2 0 Roussel PHI 32 0 2 2 0.06 2 11 0 Twist QUE 34 0 2 2 0.06 2 64 0 Fiset QUE 37 0 2 2 0.05 2 2 0 Jablonski TB 42 0 2 2 0.05 2 7 0 Soderstrom PHI 43 0 2 2 0.05 2 4 0 Healy NYI 46 0 2 2 0.04 2 2 0 Burke HAR 50 0 2 2 0.04 2 25 0 Hextall QUE 53 0 2 2 0.04 2 56 0 Roy MON 61 0 2 2 0.03 2 16 0 Vernon CAL 63 0 2 2 0.03 2 42 0 Joseph STL 66 0 2 2 0.03 2 8 0 Brown PHI 67 0 2 2 0.03 2 76 -5 Grimson CHI 76 1 1 2 0.03 2 186 2 Barnaby BUF 1 1 0 1 1.00 1 0 0 Ratushny VAN 1 0 1 1 1.00 1 0 0 Zholtok BOS 1 0 1 1 1.00 1 0 1 Sullivan NJ 2 0 1 1 0.50 1 0 -1 Duncanson NYR 3 0 1 1 0.33 1 0 0 Beaufait SJ 4 1 0 1 0.25 1 0 -1 Bowen PHI 4 1 0 1 0.25 1 2 0 MacDonald BUF 4 1 0 1 0.25 1 2 0 Esau QUE 4 0 1 1 0.25 1 2 1 D.Smith MIN 9 0 1 1 0.11 1 2 -2 Vial DET 9 0 1 1 0.11 1 20 1 Brown BUF 10 0 1 1 0.10 1 6 -5 Draper BUF 11 0 1 1 0.09 1 2 0 Karpa QUE 11 0 1 1 0.09 1 13 -6 Tichy CHI 13 0 1 1 0.08 1 30 7 Gosselin HAR 15 0 1 1 0.07 1 2 0 Fortier LA 16 0 1 1 0.06 1 11 -9 Hayward SJ 18 0 1 1 0.06 1 2 0 McGill TOR 19 1 0 1 0.05 1 34 5 Bergeron TB 19 0 1 1 0.05 1 0 0 Potvin LA 19 0 1 1 0.05 1 52 -9 Berthiaume OTT 23 0 1 1 0.04 1 2 0 Racicot MON 25 0 1 1 0.04 1 6 0 Wregget PIT 25 0 1 1 0.04 1 6 0 Ciccone MIN 29 0 1 1 0.03 1 106 3 Puppa TOR 32 0 1 1 0.03 1 0 0 Hackett SJ 36 0 1 1 0.03 1 4 0 Fitzpatrick NYI 37 0 1 1 0.03 1 2 0 Billington NJ 40 0 1 1 0.03 1 8 0 Potvin TOR 46 0 1 1 0.02 1 4 0 Vanbiesbrouk NYR 48 0 1 1 0.02 1 18 0 McLean VAN 54 0 1 1 0.02 1 16 0 Moog BOS 54 0 1 1 0.02 1 14 0 Beaupre WAS 57 0 1 1 0.02 1 20 0 Baumgartner TOR 61 1 0 1 0.02 1 155 -11 Bales BOS 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Burridge WAS 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Chabot MON 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 D'Alessio HAR 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Littman TB 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Parks NYI 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Semchuk LA 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 St. Amour OTT 1 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Cimellaro OTT 2 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 -2 Cote TB 2 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 -1 Marcinyshyn NYR 2 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 -1 O'Neill WIN 2 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Raglan TB 2 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Williams LA 2 0 0 0 0.00 0 10 0 Charron MON 3 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Ciavaglia BUF 3 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Cloutier QUE 3 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Hamr OTT 3 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 -3 Wamsley TOR 3 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Hirsch NYR 4 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 O'Connor NJ 7 0 0 0 0.00 0 9 -4 J.Messier NYR 9 0 0 0 0.00 0 6 0 Knickle LA 10 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Chapdelaine LA 13 0 0 0 0.00 0 12 -6 Shannon TOR 15 0 0 0 0.00 0 11 -2 Agnew HAR 16 0 0 0 0.00 0 68 3 Waite CHI 20 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Langway WAS 21 0 0 0 0.00 0 20 -13 Riendeau DET 22 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Hebert STL 23 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Tabaracci WAS 23 0 0 0 0.00 0 12 0 Tugnutt EDM 25 0 0 0 0.00 0 2 0 Caufield PIT 26 0 0 0 0.00 0 60 -1 Hasek BUF 27 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 Pietrangelo HAR 30 0 0 0 0.00 0 4 0 Irbe SJ 35 0 0 0 0.00 0 10 0 Terreri NJ 47 0 0 0 0.00 0 6 0 Fuhr BUF 56 0 0 0 0.00 0 10 0 Sidorkiewicz OTT 63 0 0 0 0.00 0 8 0 --
I have a Roberto Clemente 1969 Topps baseball card for sale, in near-mint condition (really as close to mint condition as you can get). It lists for $55 in my most recent baseball card pricelist for May. I am offering it for $50 and I'll pay the certified postage to ship it to you.
Ron Roth recommends: "Once you have your hypoglycemia CONFIRMED through the proper channels, you might consider ther following:..." [diet omitted] 1) Ron...what do YOU consider to be "proper channels"...this sounds suspiciously like a blood chemistry...glucose tolerance and the like...suddenly chemistry exists? You know perfectly well that this person can be saved needless trouble and expense with simple muscle testing and hair analysis to diagnose...no "CONFIRM" any aberrant physiology...but then again...maybe that's what you meantby "proper channels." 2) Were you able to understand Dick King's post that "90% of diseases is not thesame thing as 90% of patients" which was a reply to your inability to critically evaluate the statistic you cited from the New England Journal of Medicine. Couldyou figure out what is implied by the remark "Of course MDs are ethically bound to not knowingly dispense placebos..."? 3) Ron...have you ever thought about why you never post in misc.health.alterna- tive...and insist instead upon insinuating your untrained, non-medical, often delusional notions of health and disease into this forum? I suspect from your apparent anger toward MDs and heteropathic medicine that there may be an underlying 'father problem'...of course I can CONFIRM this by surrogate muscle testing one of my patients while they ponder my theory to see if one of their previously weak 'indicator' muscles strengthens...or do you have reservations about my unique methods of diagnosis? Oh..I forgot what you said in an earlier post.."neither am I concerned of whether or not my study designs meet your or anyone else's criteria of acceptance." John Badanes, DC, CA romdas@uclink.berkeley.edu
Well, a student body president can't exactly campaign on the stand that he's "tough on crime". Their job is to listen to what people want and fund things that make sense. Condoms and marijuana aren't exactly the worst things to have available either...
So, we should ban the ammunition? Why not get rid of the guns? It is worse than others? The National Anthem? Should it be changed too? God Bless America? The list goes on... Then you'd be no better than the people you despise. Oh? An endorsement, or an acknowledgement? I think gods are things that people are proud of, but I don't think the motto encourages belief. Is it? [...] Would you approve of such a motto? And removing the tool will solve the problem? Or will it increase the problem?
You ask where we are. I would echo that question. I'm not trying to be contentious. But assuming that the Pope has universal jurisdiction and authority, what authority do you rely upon for your decisions? What prevents me from choosing ANY doctrine I like and saying that Papal disagreement is an error that will be resolved in time? This is especially true, since Councils of Bishops have basically stood by the Pope. The ultimate question is the traditional theology of the Church. This is the *only* thing that it is possible to resist a Pope for: his departure from the traditional doctrine of the Church. If commands from *any* authority conflict with Tradition, the commands must be disobeyed. My own view on this is that this conflict could only happen in a major way. God would never allow a hair-splitting situation to develop; it would be too complex for people to figure out. I don't view the present situation in the Church as anything extremely complicated. Run through a list of what has happened in the last 30 years in the Catholic Church, and any impartial observer will be aghast. It appears that much of what lies at the heart of this matter is disagreements over what is tradition and Tradition, and also over authority and discipline. The problems stem from a general widespread ignorance of the Catholic Faith, in my opinion. Most Catholics know about zilch about the Catholic Faith; this leaves them wide open for destruction by erring bishops. It's basically the Reformation part II. There is not even a question in my mind that in some respects the shards of the Catholic Church are currently being trampled upon by the Catholic hierarchy. I could go on listing shocking things for an hour, probably. Take the situation in Campos, Brazil, for example. I'm reading a book on what happened there after Vatican Council II. The bishop, Antonio de Castro-Mayer, never introduced all the changes that followed in the wake of Vatican II. He kept the traditional Mass, the same old catechisms, etc. He made sure the people knew their faith, the Catholic theology of obedience, what Modernism was, etc. He innoculated the people against what was coming. Well, one day the order came from Rome for his retirement. It came when the Pope was sick. Bishop de Castro-Mayer waited until the Pope recovered, then inquired whether this command was what the Pope really wanted, or something that some Liberal had commanded in his absence. The Pope confirmed the decision. So the good bishop retired. The injustice that followed was completely incredible. A new bishop was installed. He proceeded to expel most of bishop de Castro-Mayer's clergy from their churches, because they refused to celebrate the New Mass. The new bishop would visit a parish, and celebrate a New Mass. The people would promptly walk out of the church en masse. The bishop was *enraged* by this. He usually resorted to enlisting the help of the secular authorities to eject the priest from the church. The priests would just start building new churches; the people were completely behind them. The old parishes had the New Mass, as the bishop desired -- and virtually no parishioners. The prime motivation for all this was completely illegal, according to canon law. No priest can be penalized in any way for saying the traditional Mass, because of legislation enacted by Pope Saint Pius V. Nor is there any obligation to say the New Mass. During all this process, the people of Campos, not just private individuals, but including civil authorities, were constantly sending petitions and letters to Rome to do something about the new Modernist bishop. NOTHING was ever done; no help ever arrived from Rome. Eventually 37 priests were kicked out, and about 40,000 people. My question to the supporters of SSPX is this: Is there ANY way that your positions with respect to church reforms could change and be conformed to those of the Pope? (assuming that the Pope's position does not change and that the leaders of SSPX don't jointly make such choice.) If not, this appears to be claiming infallible teaching authority. If I adopt the view that "I'm NOT wrong, I CAN'T be wrong, and there's NO WAY I'll change my mind, YOU must change yours", that I've either left the Catholic Church or it has left me. If the Pope defines certain things ex cathedra, that would be the end of the controversy. That process is all very well understood in Catholic theology, and anyone who doesn't go along with it is an instant non-Catholic. The problem here is that people do not appreciate what is going on in the Catholic world. If they knew the Faith, and what our bishops are doing, they would be shocked! We sould argue from now until the Second Coming about what the "real" traditional teaching of the Church is. If this were a simple matter East and West would not have been separated for over 900 years. This isn't the case in the Catholic Church. There is a massive body of traditional teaching. The Popes of the last 150 years are especially relevant. There is no question at all what the traditional doctrine is. I thought that the teaching magisterieum of the church did not allow error in teachings regarding faith and morals even in the short term.` I may be wrong here, I'm not Roman Catholic. :-) That's heresy, more or less. Although they have done a great job since the Reformation, the last 30 years have seen so many errors spread that it's pitiful. Infallibility rests in the Pope, and in the Church as a whole. In the short term, a Pope, or large sections of the Church can go astray. In fact, that's what usually happens during a major heresy: large sections of the Church go astray. (The Pope historically has been much more reliable.) Everything will always come back in the long run. What would be the effect of a Pope making an ex cathedra statement regarding the SSPX situation? Would it be honored? If not, how do you get around the formal doctrine of infallibility? Again, I'm not trying to be contentions, I'm trying to understand. Since I'm Orthodox, I've got no real vested interest in the outcome, one way or the other. Yes, it would be honored. Infallibility is infallibility. But what is he going to define? That the New Mass is a better expression of the Catholic Faith than the old? That sex education in the Catholic schools is wonderful? That all religions are wonderful except for that professed by the Popes prior to Vatican II? It does if the command was legitimate. SSPX does not view the Pope's commands as legitimate. Why? This is a VERY slippery slope.
Robert C Hite writes I think the only Phillies in effect here are Philly Blunts. Of course, if this all becomes true, I'll be the first to smoke one myself.
It's always possible, but if this is the case, I think that there is some blatant discrimination going on here. Clearly Selig is allowing the opposition to use pre-1920 baseballs against the Dodgers. And almost more impressive was that he also got an intentional walk. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length paula@koufax.cv.hp.com Paul Andresen Hewlett-Packard (503)-750-3511
This doesn't sound right to me. Don't Quadras use the 53C96? If so, the Mac has nothing to do with the SCSI timing. That's all handled by the chip. About the only the timing could be wrong is if Apple programs the clock registers wrong on the 96. That, however, should only really hurt synchronous transfer, which is not used by the Mac SCSI Manager. Furthermore, disabling blind writes should be meaningless on a Quadra. On Macs that used the 5380, which is a much lower level SCSI chip, the Mac was responsible for the handshake of each byte transferred. Blind mode affected how the Mac handled that handshake. On the 5396, the handshake is entirely handled by the chip.
I had exactly the same problem with a 1981 Horizon. Third gear would just disengage. Engine would rev up. Kind of disconcerting. I sold that car quite a few years back but the memory of that tranny sticks with me. It also had a clutch chatter in first that the dealer could not fix. If the lemon law had been in place then, that car would have been covered. I have had several Jap cars since then (figuring the Horizon was my contribution to the American Auto Companies), and have never seen any bad behavior with the exception of a Toyota Tercel with a bit of clutch chatter that they did fix on the first try. Anyway, from that day forward, I have sworn that I would never purchase another American car with a standard. American manufacturers don't have a clue on how to manufacture five speed transmissions and have been doing the automatics much longer and on many more cars. However, I hate automatics, so I am still buying Jap cars. Not sure this is any help, but other cars do this too. Cheers, Larry -- @@ Larry Rogers * @@@ larry_rogers@dg.com * Big Brother @@@ &&& larry@boris.webo.dg.com * is Watching @@ && Data General 508-870-8441 * The opinions contained herein are my own, and do not reflect the opinions of Data General or anyone else, but they should.
please e-mail me too, thanks ...howard hfeldman@infoserv.com ---------------------------------------------------------------
My vote goes for the ('75?) Indians with their all-red uniforms. Boog Powell once said he felt like a big red blood clot.
So how much would it cost as a private venture, assuming you could talk the U.S. government into leasing you a couple of pads in Florida?
But why do you characterize this as a "flight of fancy" or a "fantasy"? While I am unfamiliar with the scientific context here, it appears obvious that his speculation (for lack of a better or more neutral word) was at least in significant part a consequence of his knowledge of and acceptance of current theory coupled with his observations. It would appear that something quite rational was going on as he attempted to fit his observation into that theory (or to tailor the theory to cover the observation). This does not seem like an example of what most would normally call a flight of fancy or a fantasy. Well, I think someone else in this thread was the first to use the word (also, "extra-scientific", etc.). Nor am I prepared to give a general account of rationality. In terms of examples, there is some danger of beginning to quibble over what a "surprising" experiment is, what counts as "surprising", etc. The same may be said about "logical grounds". My point is that quite frequently (perhaps even most frequently) the roots of a new theory can be traced to previously existing theories (or even to previously rejected hypotheses of some other theory or domain). I would offer some rather well known examples such as Toricelli's Puy de Dome experiment done for the sake of his "sea of air" hypothesis. Was this theory (and the resulting experimental test) "surprising"? Well, given the *prior* explanations of the phenomena involved it certainly must be counted as so. Was the theory constructed (and the experiment designed) out of "perfectly rational grounds"? Well, there was a pretty successful and well know theory of fluids. The analogy to fluids by Toricelli is explicit. The novelty was in thinking of air as a fluid (but this was *quite* a novelty at the time). Was the theory interesting? Yes. Was it "new"? Well, one could argue that it was merely the extension of an existing theory to a new domain, but I think this begs certain questions. We can debate that if you like.
I don't mean to be disrespectful to your concerns, but it seems to me that you're getting all wound up in a non-issue. As many knowledgeable people have pointed out, msg is a naturally occurring substance in a lot, if not most, foods. When food manufacturers add it to a preparation, they do so because it's a known flavor enhancer. Your wife's theory, that MSG is added to food to stimulate appetite, may well be true. But I don't believe it's ALWAYS the reason it's added. People are (largely, for the most part) in charge of their own appetites. You don't know much about cats, do you? Cats will Take Advantage of You. Resign yourself: you will never understand a cat. Their tastes are whimsical. I also suspect, though it's been a while since I've checked ingredients on commercial cat food, that there are much more stringent requirements on pet food additives than human. See, the FDA has this stupid idea that human beings have the intelligence to look out after their own interests.
In this giant bally-ho over this Clipper chip I noticed a rather disturbing trend in some of the E-mail and posts I've tossing back and forth. Somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this. The reason is very simple: How many people do you want to die in a riot? In a new Civil War? Everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it, and I'm worried that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens and paper. Can people work within the system before trying to break it? Examine your history books, and find out how many armed revolutions led to Democratic (or Democratic style) governments. I think you'll only find one in over five thousand years of written history. That's not very good odds. Somebody once said something like: "Armed Violence is meant only to be used in response to an armed attack. It is not meant to be used in agression. This is the difference between self-defence and murder." Let's try to avoid killing things, eh? There's enough blood shed in the world, without adding a couple of riots, Civil Wars, etc. I'm probably overreacting. But what I've read scared me a lot. I don't want my children growing up in a War Zone.
Tony- While I honestly believe you believe you are doing a "good thing" by posting that piece of propaganda, I believe the more people believe that the more they will feel justified in their blatant persecution of gay oriented people. I have seen the film called "The Gay Agenda" and along with my church we found it to be horrifying. Not because of what was actually shown (cleaver use of editting can create any image one wants to portray), rather becaseu we are familia familiar with how widely it was actively distributed and how many naive people are actually believing the garbage found within it. The truth is that neither you nor I can fully speak for anyone who calls themself gay, but knowing as many as I do and knowing their testimonies and witnessing thier faith and life I have to say that the report you posted is a very biased report, something obviously claimed against gays as well. The truth is that unless YOU are innately gay you cannot know what harm you are causing. I speak as an abolitionist who supports affirming gay rights in our society. I do not support wild sex or any other misrepresentations perpetrated by Christian Fundamentalist extremists, but I know people who are not the sexual deviants your report paints them to be. It is no mistake that the APA removed homosexuality from it's list of mental illnesses, it is also no mistake that there are many Christians and homophobes who long to bring it back to the list. I do not feel threatened by gays, I don't understand why others are. The following is an article concerning two of the more popular ex-gay min- istries: Exodus International & Homosexuals Anonymous. THE FOUNDER OF AN "EX-GAY" SUPPORT GROUP CHOOSES HOMO OVER HETERO by Robert Pela (from Gay oriented magazine ADVOCATE) In December 1985, David Caligiuri received one of The Advocate's homophobia rewaa awards: the A Prayer A Day Keeps the Lust Away citation. As director of FREE INDEED, a national ex-gay ministry, Caligiuri was singled out for offering discontented gays and lesbians "a way out of the homosexual death-style" through prayer. "I'd like to give the award back," Caligiuri now laughs, "I'm no longer deserve it." Caligiuri's eight year involvement with the national "ex-gay" movement peaked with his founding of the Phoenix chapter of Homosexuals Anonymous (HA) as well as Free Indeed. He has since abandoned his pulpit and now says that the ex- gay movement is a fruitless effort based on deception. "There's no reality in it," he says, "I was selling a product, and my product was a lie." Headed up by national ministries like Exodus International and Courage, the organizations of the ex-gay movement rely on the tenents of born-again Christianity to convince disatisfied homosexuals -- usually young gay men who are just coming out -- that they can shed their sexuality by suppressing their sexual urges and embracing Christianity. "We offer support to people who are seeking to leave the sin of homosexuality," explains Bob Davies, director of Exodus. He ventures that "about 80% of those seeking to abandon their homo- sexuality are men." "Anybody who is involved in the ex-gay ministry is misguided and is wasting their time," says Lisa Seeley, a former "redeemed lesbian" who worked with Caligiuri as HA and appeared with him on the Sally Jessy Raphael show. "These organizations are for people who are spiritually and emotionally wounded." "It's possible to change your identity or your behavior," says sex educator Brian McNaught, author of _On Being Gay_. "But it's really impossible to change your orientation. These people are no longer calling themselves gay, but they continue to have same-sex erotic feelings." Caligiuri says he founded Free Indeed after an ominous week in 1981 when all hell broke loose in his personal life. A few days after his lover ended both their romance and their business partnership, Caligiuri was sexually assaulted by a man he picked up in a bar. "I was really drunk," he recalls, "and I went home with this guy. He tied me up and raped me. He left me tied up all night, and the next morning he raped me again." When Caligiuri was eventually freed by the attacker, he returned home to the home he shared with his ex-lover. "He had another man there with him," Caligiuri recalls. "I thought at this time, 'If this is what being gay is about, I don't want to be this way anymore." Caligiuri vowed that if he could find a way out, he would share his discovery with others. He organized an antigay contingent to demonstrate at Phoenix's gay pride parade in June 1985, and a few months later Free Indeed held its first public protest. At a meeting to promote a gay civil rights ordinance, Free Indeed members loudly blasted gays, telling them ther were sinners headed for hell. Free Indeed began receiving about a hundred telephone calls a week, thanks in part to a deceptive listing in the local yellow pages. "We were listed under Lesbian and Gay Alternative Services," Caligiuri says, "so people thought we were a gay information switchboard. People would call to find out where the local bars were, and we'd preach to them about the sins of homo- sexuality." Ruses like this are typical of the movement, Caligiuri says, adding, "They'll do anything to reach these people." "David used to go on radio and say really stupid things," recalls Peter Kelly, a counselor at Phoenix's Catholic diocese AIDS program, "like that he knew he was gay when he started wearing pastel colors." Caligiuri's family first found out about his ministry when they saw him on Raphael's syndicated talk show in 1985. "They were relieved," he recalls. "They figured that if they had to have a gay person in the family, better that I should be a 'reformed' gay person." But Caligiuri was hardly reformed. "By the time I appeared on Sally's show," "I'd started having sex with men again. Men would call our hotline and tell me about thier latest sin: sex with their pastor, sex with their father. I was horny all the time." Unable to risk going to gay bars, where he might be recognized from his numerous television appearances, Caligiuri says he "used to go to bookstores and get blowjobs." When he wasn't working the bookstores, he was sleeping with other "reformed" homosexuals. "I didn't realize it at first, but a lot of the HA leaders were having sex with one another," Caligiuri says. "We'd go to conferences in other cities, and we'd be paired up in hotel rooms. Everybody was sleeping with everybody else." By the time he appeared on 'AM Philadelphia' television show in May 1988, Caligiuri was having anonymous sex a couple times a week. When the show's host asked him if he ever "acted on temptation," his answer was a lie. Caligiuri's duplicity began to take it's toll on him, however. He was suffering from chrinic fatigue syndrome and candidiasis, a dibilitating yeast infection, and this led to his escape from the sect. "I was too sick to go to church," he explains. "The more time I spent away from those people the more I began to feel like myself. I began to remember who I used to be." Late in 1991, Caligiuri turned Free Indeed phone lines over to a local church and closed the ministry's doors. "I'd convinced myself that there is no need in the world for ex-gay people," he says. Today, Caligiuri, 31, is studying alternative spiritualities ("I'm interest- ed in belief systems that aren't judgemental."), considering romance ("But not with a CHristian!"), and searching for a new project to devote himself to. "I feel compelled to commit myself to gay causes," he says. "I want to eventually stop feeling guilty about what I did and make up for the damage I may have brought to our community." ---end article--- Caligiuri's tory is by no means unique and I have read several other articles of former leaders and founders of 'ex-gay' ministries who have said very similar th similar things. Fortuantely not all of them have left Christianity, but have come to realize that God loves them despite the attitudes of others. Some, like Chris Glaser, director of the Presbyterian "Lazarus Project" of West Hollywood Presbyterian Church have actually been working with the gay community to bring them into the sheepfold of Christ and encouraging real ethical values of sexuality within the sphere of being gay. I have also, as I said talked and become and become close friends with many who once attended such groups as "Love In Action" and others, who either once claimed to have been "reformed" or who were too honest with themselves to live a lie, no matter who was disappointed in them. Some were even encouraged to marry as a way of "sealing" their new heterosexuality, only to eventually start hitting the bars, bathhouses and bookstores, since these were usually activities under the concealment of night and one-night-stands of promiscuous behavior meant no continuous "sin" through a committed relationship. This is a horrible trap which the CHurch has dumped on the backs of the truly gay oriented people, and the very inno- cent victims in these cases are the wives and children of such marriages. Yet the church insists that there are only two options they are willing to allow gay people: 1) heterosexuality or 2) celebacy. This is sad. What is also mrtifying, is in the cases of those who cannot suppress their desires and fear for thier sanity in such a mixed up confusion that the church forces on them, they may even opt for 'suicide' or surgical dampering of the brain functions. In the past lobotomies and heavey drug suppressants were common- place. There are now becoming available more and more literature on the threat of coercive Christianity toward gays, such as Sylvia Pennington's _"Ex-Gays? There Are None_. and others. There are also a great many fact based books being written to help people trapped in this confusion such as Maury Johnston's _Gays Under Grace_, and Chris Glaser's _Come Hom!_. I seriously recommend those for people seeking help for this persecution and self-acceptance.
K(> K(> RR> OTOH, who are we kidding, the New England Medical Journal in 1984 K(> RR> ran the heading: "Ninety Percent of Diseases are not Treatable by K(> RR> Drugs or Surgery," which has been echoed by several other reports. K(> RR> No wonder MDs are not amused with alternative medicine, since K(> RR> the 20% magic of the "placebo effect" would award alternative K(> RR> practitioners twice the success rate of conventional medicine... K(> K(> 1: "90% of diseases" is not the same thing as "90% of patients". K(> K(> In a world with one curable disease that strikes 100 people, and nine K(> incurable diseases which strikes one person each, medical science will cure K(> 91% of the patients and report that 90% of diseases have no therapy. K(> K(> 2: A disease would be counted among the 90% untreatable if nothing better than K(> a placebo were known. Of course MDs are ethically bound to not knowingly K(> dispense placebos... K(> K(> -dk Hmmm... even *without* the ;-) at the end, I didn't think anyone was going to take the mathematics or statistics of my post seriously. I only hope that you had the same thing in mind with your post, otherwise you would need at least TWO ;-)'s at the end to help anyone understand your calculations above... --Ron--
Kevin Mitchell's sacrifice fly in the eighth off Brett Saberhagen plated pitch runner Cesar Hernandez to give the Reds a 2-3 come-from-behind victory over New York. Hernandez ran for pinch-hitter Cecil Espy, who got the inning started with a solid single to right, moved to second on "Bob" Kelly's infield sneaker down the third-base line, and to third on Jeff Branson's well-placed bunt--a rare show of excellent execution by the recently hapless Reds offense. Cincinnati trailed 2-0 after starter Tim Pugh blinked in the fifth. He had only given up one hit in the first four innings, a fourth-inning lead-off double by Vince Coleman. Coleman was left stranded at third by Bobby Bonilla after Joe Orselak popped to short. Orselak was pinch-hitting for Eddie Murray who argued plate umpire Kellogg's inside strike by "drawing the line" (really, he should know better than that). Murray, and later manager Jeff Torborg ended up getting tossed. The Mets' fifth started with a Howard Johnson's first-pitch homer. Pugh must have been slightly shaken, as he was popped on the next pitch by Jeff Kent's single, then a Ryan Thompson liner to left was (surprise) misplayed by Mitchell and turned into a RBI triple. Catcher Hundley's grounder to the drawn-in Branson failed to bring Thompson in, then the play of the game occured: Saberhagen was due up, so Reds pitching coach Larry Rothschild met with the infield to discuss the possibility of a suicide squeeze. They called it perfectly: Thompson was hung out to dry after Pugh's first-pitch pitch out and the threat ended. (Isn't the NATIONAL LEAGUE great??) The Reds picked up 2 runs in the seventh to knot up the game. After Barry Larkin's ground out, Mitchell, Chris Sabo, and Randy Milligan got back-to-back-to-back singles--the third scoring Mitchell. Reggie Sanders then plated Sabo with a long fly to center. A double by Oliver might have scored runner Dan Wilson, but third base coach Dave Bristol threw up the stop sign too late--Wilson himself was hung out to dry killing the Reds rally. Rob Dibble came on in the ninth and pitched shakily. With two outs and a runner on second Bonilla came to the plate and all I could think of was the Sunday game in late August last year when Bonilla's three-run dinger slapped a loss on Dibble and spelled the beginning of the end for Cinci's season. Bonilla ended up walking, and HoJo flied out to left to give the Reds their first win in a week, and earned Dibble his third save in as many opportunities. The win went to Steve Foster (1-2) who got in what must be an ego-boosting two perfect innings work, striking out three. Saberhagen (2-1) got the loss--though I'm a bit surprised he even pitched in the eighth. I'll take it, though. The Reds are now 3-9, still the worst team in baseball with the Royals victory today. The Mets are 6-5. The Line: New York Mets AB R H K BB LO -----------------------------------------------|---------------------------- Coleman lf 4 0 1 0 0 0 Fernandez ss 4 0 0 1 0 0 Murray 1b 1 0 0 0 0 0 Orselak ph/rf 3 0 1 0 0 0 Bonilla rf/1b 3 0 0 2 1 1 Johnson 3b 3 1 1 1 0 2 Kent 2b 3 1 1 1 0 0 Thompson cf 3 0 1 1 0 0 Hundley c 3 0 0 2 0 0 Saberhagen p 3 0 0 0 0 0 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Totals 30 2 5 8 1 3 HR-Johnson (off Pugh, leading off fifth, 0-0 pitch) 3b-Thompson (off Pugh, in fifth, 0 out, 1 RBI, picked-off) 2b-Coleman (off Pugh, in fourth, 0 out, 0 on, stranded at third) RBI-Johnson, Thompson Cincinnati Reds AB R H K BB LO -----------------------------------------------|---------------------------- Kelly cf 4 0 1 0 0 0 Branson 2b 3 0 1 0 0 0 Larkin ss 3 0 0 0 1 0 Mitchell lf 3 1 1 0 0 0 Dibble p 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sabo 3b 4 1 1 1 0 2 Milligan 1b 3 0 3 0 0 0 Wilson pr/c 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sanders rf 2 0 0 0 0 1 Oliver c/1b 3 0 1 1 0 1 Pugh p 1 0 0 1 0 0 Roberts ph 1 0 0 1 0 0 Foster p 0 0 0 0 0 0 Espy ph 1 0 1 0 0 0 Hernandez pr/lf 0 1 0 0 0 0 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Totals 28 3 9 4 1 5 (*) (*) Oliver was stranded in the seventh after his double when Wilson was run down. 2b Oliver (off Saberhagen, 2 out, runner on first, stranded) RBI-Milligan, Sanders, and Mitchell Sac-Branson SF-Sanders and Mitchell IBB-Larkin GDP-Larkin New York 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 ---- 2-5-0 Cincinnati 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 x ---- 3-9-0 Pitching IP R ER H K BB NEW YORK Saberhagen (L 2-1) 8 3 3 9 4 1 CINCINNATI Pugh 6 2 2 4 4 0 Foster (W 1-2) 2 0 0 0 3 0 Dibble (S 3) 1 0 0 1 1 1 PB- Wilson Ejected-Murray, Torborg Umps-Kellogg/Relliford/Runge/DeMuth Attendance 32,435 T- 2:23 Coming up: The Reds travel to Pittsburgh for three then continue on into Chicago for three. Next game is Tuesday at 7:35, expected to pitch are Belcher (0-1) vs. Tomlin (0-0).
I have the following equipment for sale: 1. Kenwood TH-28A 2mtr HT $250.00 2. RF Concepts 2mtr Amp (45in->170out) $275.00 3. Hamtronics Class C Continuous Duty 440mhz 10watt-in ~40watt-out amp $250.00 All prices include shipping/insurance. For additional information, contact me at the address below. Dave
I read about the development of EISA-2 some time ago but dismissed it in light of the intense interest in VESA and PCI. However, I recently was disheartened to hear that ISA cannot address more than 16mb of RAM, a limit that too many of us will hit all too soon. I recall that EISA-2 will support 64-bit transfer among other enhancements. Is there such a standard being developed?
Where do insparations/Miracles fit in? I was a new reader to the bible and Qu'ran at the same time in my life and I can tell you that I would have drifted in my faith if Those books were not exposed to me.
I don't think anyone is arguing that there would be no effect. But there would be no _net_ _positive_ effect. You also have to consider the negative side: Law abiding citizens, armed with fireamrs (pistols for the most part), prevent between 80,000 (National Crime Survey) and 1,000,000 (Dr. Kleck) crimes each year. (Those are the extremes. Most studies find the number to be 500,000 to 600,000.) About 1% of those crimes are homicides, so private ownership of firearms _saves_ approximately 5,000 lives each year. There are roughly 12,000 criminal homicides and fatal accidents involving guns each year. For there to be any net benefit, you would have to show that gun control measures would disarm over 40% of the criminals currently using guns. That would be very hard to do: According the the federal BATF, only 8% of criminals buy their guns over the counter. Since gun control laws, by their very nature, only effect legal sales, such a law would remove all the benefits of armed, law-abiding citizens while having only a minimal effect on armed criminals (who, by and large, get their guns illegally.) That doesn't sound like a net benefit to me. Since most were with licensed weapons, I assume you are not supporting "reasonable" laws (i.e. waiting periods, background checks, licenses, etc...). Since only a complete ban would alter the statistic you refer to, I assume that's what you are supporting. By the way, 1135 people dies in 1986 from falling down stairs. 250 accidental handgun deaths isn't significant next to other household accidents. 1080 children under the age of 10 died by drowning, 69 from drinking poisonous household chemicals (like Drano), 139 from falls. If the real goal is to reduce the tragic, accidental deaths of children, wouldn't a ban on drain cleaners be a better palce to start? (Or, perhaps, restricting ownership to professionals like plumbers?) While you might call it "emphasis", refering to completely two statistics in the same sentence _implies_ a comparison. If it isn't valid, and you put the numbers together to convince people you are right, the kindest thing I could call it is propaganda.
Well, I'm amazed at how successful this exercise was. I received 20 responses and 4 requests for summary. Thanks to everyone who made it possible. On my own I was able to find out about Codebase, Accsys, and Q+E. Codebase and Accsys are C libraries without SQL. Q+E is a Windows application that can be communicated through Windows DDE calls, where you send a SQL string and receive the results. Most people wrote to tell me about the Paradox Engine from Borland. Other products mentioned were: Microsoft's ODBC, Accsys, Quadbase, Codebase, RBASE, and Q+E. Only ODBC, Quadbase, RBASE, and Q+E have SQL. For myself, I decided on Codebase, mostly because it has an ANSI C portability version that runs under DOS, UNIX, etc, and includes the source code, and portability is important in my application. It works with DBASE, FoxPro, or Clipper files. However, I feel that Microsoft's ODBC looks very promising. It's mostly a formalisation of building and submitting SQL queries, and formatting query results. As the responses say, it's available via ftp, except it's effectively unusuable without two manuals: the "ODBC Programmer's Reference" and the "ODBC SDK Guide". Moreover, ODBC doesn't actually interpret SQL and liase with databases, that's up to drivers that should be provided by database manufacturers. Also, it's Windows only (it's actually an extension to the Windows SDK). Nevertheless, it's a start at a SQL interface standard, and should make life interesting in the future. Here's my original post, followed by the responses, separated by a line of asterisks (*). **************************************************************************** Borland has a product called Paradox Engine that does just what you want. The current version is 3.0, which is fully compatible with (ack) Paradox 4.0. (Why the versions are different, I don't know. PD Engine 2.0 was compatible with Pdox 3.0 and 3.5...). It consists of a rather broad library of functions for accesing database files from both Pascal (I think turbo Pascal 5.5 and up) and C (I think either Microsoft or Borland). Now.. reading the box... it's "Borland Paradox Engine & Database Frameworks". Works with any Borland C/C++, Mocrosoft C 6.01 or later, Turbo C++ for Windows, Turbo Pascal 6.0 or later, TP for Windows 1.0 or later. For Framework applications, BC++ 3.0 or later or MS C/C++ 7.0. It does have support for object useage... I haven't had a real chance to really use it myself... but it looks fairly complete... I'm planning to use it this summer. -Rick -- +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ **************************************************************************** Borland has a product which is called Paradox Engine. I do not know about MS. The paradox engine I know very well, and it definitiely not a replacement for SQL, but it will enable you to save and restore records, has locking, et al. Supposedly the Paradox for Windows was impemented on top of it. --------------------------------------------------------- Charles Parker Phone.(800) 669 9165 Technical Support (617) 498 3321 CenterLine Software, Inc. Fax.(617) 868 6655 cparker@centerline.com cyberspace momma, don't let yer children grow up to be ^ cowboys ... --------------------------------------------------------- **************************************************************************** I know Borland has a library of routines for accessing PARADOX from within a C program. They recently came out with version 3.0. This works with both Borland and Microsoft's C compiler. shailesh bhobe (708) 979-7101 att!psp!smb2 **************************************************************************** MS has put their ODBC SDK into the public domain; it's _big_ (I believe 1.8 MB), but worth downloading over a fast link. Look at ftp.uu.net in vendor/microsoft/odbc-sdk. Also some companies are starting to provide SQL engines; I just got one for RBASE, not exactly cheap at $450, but it allows programs in C or VBASIC (under DOS or Windows) to talk to data bases using SQL functions in your code. hth Walter Knopf Fermilab knopf@fnal.fnal.gov **************************************************************************** Check out the ODBC toolikt from Microsoft. It is available on ftp.uu.net:vendor/microsoft/odbc-sdk. This is the way that we've chosen to access databases from all of our apps. mj -- +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+ +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+ **************************************************************************** Borland sells the "Paradox Engine" which is a C language interface to Paradox, dBase, Btrieve, ans ASCI files. They also sell "Database Frameworks" which includes the engine plus a collection (with source) of C++ classes for using the engine. -- Earl Roethke eroethke@ems.cdc.com **************************************************************************** I actualy have Paradox Engine. It is a library of functions (large model) for accessing the Paradox's databases. It seems to be working fine, but I never did try it thouroughly. It costs ~200$. Hope it will help you... From: David Lefebvre <david@hp817.speedware.com> **************************************************************************** Borland provides a database lib called Paradox Engine which can access and use the database files aswell as many other things. Gary. -- ``````````` bell@nellads.cc.monash.edu.au ````````````````````````````````````` **************************************************************************** Paradox Engine is the library for Paradox . Artur Babecki artur@ii.uj.edu.pl **************************************************************************** Borland sells the Paradox Engine -- which has all the Paradox calls in it. Its hardly SQL though. You can do searches on key fields and on indivual fields, but no comparison operators like <, >=.... so its pretty painful (in my opinion) do do anything besides simple retrieval and inserts/updates. I'm currently using it (I have an eval copy..) and I've linked it in to some entry screens I've written. The Engine library adds about 100K to the size of the program, but you can load it as an overlay using Borland's VROOM manager. Now Borland claims that later versions of the engine will have SQL support but they don't really expect it till late in the year... or even next year They are trying to get thrid parties to help out.. If you have any other questions -- let me know... Mike Kamlet mike@vpnet.chi.il.us **************************************************************************** Yes, borland sells their Paradox Engine separately. It has C, C++, and Pascal interfaces, although the underlying interface is in 'C'. Well at least for version 2.0 of the Engine which I have (costed $99 at Egghead). They now have version 3.0 of the engine, and a separate C++ class package for it. -- Michael D. Kersenbrock ADC Kentrox - Portland, Oregon michaelk@kentrox.com uunet!kentrox!michaelk **************************************************************************** I've used AccSys for Paradox (new version is almost ready for Paradox 4.0) to access Paradox files from C. Its pretty good. Not SQL though. Have heard of Borland Paradox Engine or some such which is supposed to do likewise, but not sure of what it is exactly. Hope this helps, good luck! chris From: fernand@slinky.cs.nyu.edu (Christopher Fernandes) **************************************************************************** Borland sells their "Paradox Engine (3.0)". It's a library of functions for accessing paradox DB files. It comes with libraries for: MS C 7.0 BCC 3.1 Turbo Pascal (v??) and I believe it comes with Turbo Pascal/Win libraries as well. The C libraries come in both DOS and Windows flavors (the win stuff being dll's). When I got it, it also came with Crystal Reports which is a graphical report generator. It allows you to create a generic form and use it within a compiled program using Pdox Engine. I don't know if they still offer it or what the current price is, I paid something like $50-$60 for an upgrade from the earlier version though... Hope this helps... -David Taylor --- **************************************************************************** If you want to do SQL from within your programs, check out QuadBase. I don't have their address oops -- yes I do! : QuadBase Systems, Inc. 790 Lucerne Dr #51 Sunnyvale, CA 94086 (USA) phone: 408-738-6989 (voice) 408-738-6980 (fax) Ask for the SQL/Win demo disk. It looked good to me (I have a background in embedded SQL in Ingres -- this looked real similar). It's a little expensive, but if you order the demo and then just wait they will probably send you a special offer that'll probably run about $500 US. Good luck! Best, Tom DeLosh From: delosh@emunix.emich.edu (Tom Delosh) **************************************************************************** Borland has the Paradox Engine library. It has libraries for both C and Pascal to access Paradox files under DOS/Windows. But for Paradox, I believe you'd have buy have the SQL Link since Pdox itself isn't SQL compliant. I've used the engine for over a year now and have been pretty satisfied with it. Under DOS, it's a real pig. It tacks on about 120K to the size of your programs. tim ma associate programmer university of utah email: tim@src.cppa.utah.edu **************************************************************************** I don't know about Microsoft, but Borland sells the Paradox Engine for C/C++ & Pascal (in one package). And if you want dBase compatible files there is a library called CodeBase from Sequiter software that works with C/C++. From: davidr@rincon.ema.rockwell.com (David J. Ray) **************************************************************************** We're using Q+E database libraries to do what you describe. It's a set of DLL's accessed through a common API to talk to most of the major database formats. We're using it to build an application that queries several databases using SQL queries. _All_ access using Q+E is done using SQL. The package is available through Microway in Melbourne. I believe it is produced by Pioneer Systems in the US. We have no association with Microway or Pioneer Systems other than being satisfied customers. Feel free to mail me for further information. Chris (Programming for NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Chris Hutchinson Box U302 Research Programmer University of New England chris@sulaw.law.su.OZ.AU Armidale NSW 2351 (067) 727 014 **************************************************************************** Paradox Engine 3.0 provides a complete set of C libraries for accessing Paradox tables. However, it seems that it supports only Borland/Turbo C and MicroSoft C. When I tried to compile the engine's sample applications with the Waterloo WATCOM C/C++ (32-bit) compiler, it complains that the library file LLIBCE.LIB is missing even though I am quite certain that the file is NOT part of WATCOM C or the engine. Anybody have any success with other C compilers? Ron.K.Ng@hydro.on.ca -------------------- **************************************************************************** I'm currently developing an app. with Borland's "Paradox Engine for C" (it also comes in Pascal), which has recently gone to version 3.0 (I.e., PX Engine 3.0 is compatible with Paradox 4.0, and downward compat. w/3.5). There are indeed C libs for Fox access, but I can't think of the names offhand - I'm sure someone has already written you in that regard - (I think I just saw an add for a Fox lib in the "C Users Journal", which is a good place to look for this type of package in general, by the way). I've been paying my dues to learn a lot of the quirks of PX Eng. over the past year - wouldn't recommend it for a complex multiuser app.--but I'm staying with it for now--it's like a bad marriage: I've got too much time invested in learning and work-arounds! But if your interest is limited to a simple single-user interface (you want to build your own SQL engine, I take it), PX Engine will do the job easily - it doesn't sound like you'll be bumping into any of the gotchas. If you do, write me; I may be able to point you in the right direction. From: raymond@cruzio.santa-cruz.ca.us (raymond) **************************************************************************** Borland has a "Paradox Engine and Database Framework 3.0" which gives you a "C" (and assembler?) API to Paradox databases. This is part of "BOCA" -- Borland's Object Component Architecture. They have technical briefs on BOCA, PdoxEng, and other products of theirs. From: jdm@jumbo.Read.TASC.COM (James D. McNamara) ------------------- James D. McNamara | TASC -------------------- 55 Walkers Brook Drive | Reading, MA 01867-3238 | 617-942-2000x2948 ****************************************************************************
> If you know the Latin, one really beautiful way to hear the > Passion is its being chanted by three deacons: the Narrator > chants in the middle baritone range, Jesus chants in the bass, > and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor. This is done in English (same music as the traditional Latin) in many Anglican parishes. I should expect that many RCC parishes would do likewise. The ST MATTHEW PASSION and ST JOHN PASSION of J S Bach are direct offshoots of this tradition
Gannon, why don't you tell the readers of these newsgroups how you hail Nazism on your BBS, and post long articles claiming non-Whites are inferior? # THE U.S. HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM: A COSTLY AND DANGEROUS MISTAKE The Museum is entirely funded by private donations, but don't expect this fact to deter "Maynard". BTW, Gannon's ideological fathers also had a passion for constructing museums and collections, some of which served to educate the public about the racial supremacy of the Aryans. One such collection was that of skeletons, and there was no lack of these around: Letter from SS-Standartenfuehrer Sievers to SS-Obersturmbannfuehrer Dr. Brandt, November 2 1942 ["Trial of the Major War Criminals", p. 520] ------------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Comarade Brandt, As you know, the Reichsfuehrer-SS has directed that SS-Hauptsturmfuehrer Prof. Dr. Hirt be supplied with everything needed for his research work. For certain anthropological researches - I already reported to the Reichsfuehrer-SS on them - 150 skeletons of prisoners, or rather Jews, are required, which are to be supplied by the KL Auschwitz. However, the good Doctor needed some more items to complete his research: Testimony of Magnus Wochner, SS guard at the Natzweiler Concentration Camp ["The Natzweiler Trial", Edited by Anthony M. Webb, p. 89] -------------------------------------------------------------------- ... I recall particularly one mass execution when about 90 prisoners (60 men and 30 women), all Jews, were killed by gassing. This took place, as far as I can remember, in spring 1944. In this case the corpses were sent to Professor Hirt of the department of Anatomy in Strasbourg.
I think I should also point out that the mystical DES engines are known plaintext engines (unless you add a ton of really smart hardware?) The 'plaintext' is digitized voice, and exists for a very short time, probably in a couple inches of copper, tops. It's flatly not available -- your bug in my office can hear my voice, and even digitize it, but it's going to get a different bitstream. It is horribly naive to suppose that regular folks can figure out how to crack skipjack, or clipper based telephones. I'm certainly not devoting a great deal of thought to it.
(MODERATOR: THIS IS A REPLACEMENT FOR AN EARLIER, MORE CLUMSILY WORDED SUBMISSION ON THE SAME TOPIC WHICH I SUBMITTED A FEW MINUTES AGO.) I think we need to distinguish etymology from meaning. Regardless of how the word 'Easter' *originated*, the fact is that it does not *now* mean anything to Christians other than 'the feast day of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ'. The meaning of a word is _only_ what people understand it to mean. And the same goes for other cultural practices. The festival of Easter may possibly have some historical association with some pagan festival, but *today* there are, as far as I know, no Christians who *intend* to honor any kind of "pagan goddess" by celebrating Easter. It is nonsense to say "this word (or this practice) 'really' means so- and-so even though nobody realizes it." Words and practices don't mean things, people do. (This is basic semantics; I'm a linguist; they pay me to think about things like this.) -- :- Michael A. Covington, Associate Research Scientist : ***** :- Artificial Intelligence Programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu : ********* :- The University of Georgia phone 706 542-0358 : * * * :- Athens, Georgia 30602-7415 U.S.A. amateur radio N4TMI : ** *** ** <><
please tell me where you where you FTP'd this from? I would like to have a copy of it. (I would have mailed you, but your post indicates you have no mail address...)
KS> From: keith@actrix.gen.nz (Keith Stewart) KS>My wife has become interested through an acquaintance in Post-Polio Syndrome KS>This apparently is not recognised in New Zealand and different symptons ( eg KS>chest complaints) are treated separately. Does anone have any information I'm not sure that this condition is "recognised" anywhere (in the sense of a disease with diagnostic criteria, clear boundaries between it and other diseases, unique pathologic or physiologic features, etc), but here goes with what many neurologists agree on. Post-polio syndrome patients have evidence of motor neuron disease by clinical examination, EMG, and muscle biopsy. The abnormalities are mostly chronic (due to old polio) but there is evidence of ongoing deterioration. Clinically, the patients complain of declining strength and endurance with everyday motor tasks. Musculoskeletal pain is a nearly universal feature that doubtless contributes to the impaired performance. The examination shows muscle weakness and atrophy. The EMG shows evidence of old denervation with reinnervation (giant and long-duration motor unit action potentials) *and* evidence of active denervation (fibrillation potentials). The biopsy also shows old denervation with reinnervation (fiber-type grouping) *and* evidence of active denervation (small, angulated fibers with dense oxidative enzyme staining) - but curiously, little or no group atrophy. Post-polio patients do not have ALS. In ALS, there is clinically evident deterioration from one month to the next. In post-polio, the patients are remarkably stable in objective findings from one year to the next. Of course, there are patients who had polio before who develop genuine ALS, but ALS is no more common among polio survivors than among people who never had polio. The cause of post-polio syndrome is unknown. There is little evidence that post-polio patients have active polio virus or destructive immunologic response to virus antigen. There is no solid evidence that patients with post-polio have anything different happening to the motor unit (anterior horn cells, motor axons, neuromuscular junctions, and muscle fibers) than patients with old polio who are not complaining of deterioration. Both groups can have the same EMG and biopsy findings. The reason for these "acute" changes in a "chronic" disease (old polio) is unknown. Possibly spinal motor neurons (that have reinnervated huge numbers of muscle fibers) start shedding the load after several years. There are a couple of clinical features that distinguish post-polio syndrome patients from patients with old polio who deny deterioration. The PPS patients are more likely to have had severe polio. The PPS patients are *much* more likely to complain of pain. They also tend to score higher on depression scales of neuropsychologic tests. My take on this (I'm sure some will disagree): after recovery from severe polio there can be abnormal loading on muscles, tendons, ligaments, bones, and joints, that leads to inflammatory and/or degenerative conditions affecting these structures. The increasing pain, superimposed on the chronic (but unchanging) weakness, leads to progressive impairment of motor performance and ADL. I am perhaps biased by personal experience of having never seen a PPS patient who was not limited in some way by pain. I do not believe that PPS patients have more rapid deterioration of motor units than non-PPS patients (i.e., those with old polio of similar severity but without PPS complaints).
Yes, and of course the Kinsey Report taken 50 years ago in much more liberal times regarding homosexuality......... Or smart enough to realize that that argument would have to apply to every survey regarding homosexuality. Therefore, they would look stupid. (Actually, Idid see Bryant Gumble bring that point up. Hee, hee).
Just heard on the news that Mike Keenan formerly of the Blackhawks, Flyers, and General of a Siberian Prison has just signed to coach the Rangers. The Rangers, who won the President's Cup last year have slipped just a bit at the end of the season and are destined to finish last behind the lowly Flyers. The Flyers' fans are going to be disappointed on Keenans decision, because they were very interested in him. Oh well. Go CAPS!!!!!!! Connin
I'm looking to find some people interested in getting some cd-rom's. Below is a list with their prices. If you are interested in any of these, send me some mail and I can guarantee this price. If you are not local their will be a shipping cost, and cod cost if you prefer it to be shipped that way. Marcus Updated prices from last post. American Business Phonebook DOS $20.00 Animals DOS $30.00 Animals MPC $18.00 Audoban Birds DOS $20.00 Audoban Mammals DOS $20.00 Barney Bear Goes to School DOS $30.00 Bible Library DOS $45.00 Bibles and Religion DOS $15.00 Book of Lists DOS $30.00 Britannicas Family Choice DOS $23.00 Britamrica Select DOS $24.33 Business & Economics DOS $19.00 Business Backgrounds DOS $20.00 Business Master DOS $20.00 Carmen San Diego (Where is ...) MPC $22.00 CD PLay/Launch DOS $25.00 CD ROM Software Jukebox DOS $20.00 CIA Vorld Taur DOS $35.00 Chess Master 3000 MPC DOS $20.00 CLassic Collection DOS $40.00 CLipert Goliath DOS $15.00 Colossal Cookbook DOS $15.00 DeLorme's Atlas USA WIN $25.00 Desert Storm MPC $25.00 Deathstar Arcade Battles DOS $15.00 Dictionaries & Language DOS $15.00 Education Master DOS $20.00 ELectronic Home Library DOS $35.00 Family Doctor DOS $16.00 Family Encyclopedia by Comptons DOS $49.00 Family Encyclopedia by Comptons MPC $49.00 Game Master DOS $15.00 Game Pack II DOS $25.00 Golden Immortal DOS $25.00 Great Cities of the World DOS $25.00 Greet Cities of the World MPC $30.00 Great Cities of the World II DOS $25.00 Great Cities of the World II MPC $30.00 Groliers Encyclopedia DOS $40.00 Groliers Encyclopedia MPC $40.00 Guiness Disc 1992 DOS $13.00 Ham Radio DOS $15.00 Information USA DOS $35.00 Islands Designs DOS $20.00 Jets & Props DOS $18.00 Jones ... Fast Lane DOS/MPS $17.00 KGB/CIA World Fact Book DOS $25.00 Kings Quest 5: DOS/MPC $20.00 Library of the Future DOS $90.00 Loom DOS $22.00 MPC Wizard MPC $15.00 MacMillan Kids Dictionary MPC $48.00 Magazine Rack DOS $25.00 Majestic Places DOS $20.00 Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing MPC $35.00 Mixed Up Mother Goose DOS/MPC $18.00 Money,Money,Money, DOS $20.00 Monkey Island DOS $22.00 Oak CD Stand DOS $15.00 Our Solar System DOS $15.00 Presidents DOS $85.00 Publish It v 3.0 DOS $20.00 Reference Library DOS $35.00 Secret Weapons/Luftwaffe MPC $22.00 Shereware Games DOS $35.00 Shereware Overload DOS $15.00 Sher Holmes/Consul Det MPC $35.00 Sleeping Beauty DOS $20.00 Strd. CD Software Bundle - 4 Titles N/A $90.00 Stellar 7 DOS/MPC $17.00 Story Time - Interactive DOS $14.00 The CD ROM Collection DOS $15.00 Time Magazine Almanac Current DOS $22.00 Time Table of Hist/Sci/Innovation DOS $25.00 Tons & Gigs DOS $49.00 Too Many Typefonts DOS $15.00 Total Baseball DOS $30.00 US Atlas/w Automap DOS $22.00 US History DOS $28.00 US/World Atlas DOS/MPC $18.00 US Wars:Civil War DOS $25.00 Wild Places DOS $20.00 Wing Com/Ultima VI DOS/MPC $22.00 World View DOS $25.00 @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ E-Mail mkbaird@david.wheaton.edu -- mkbaird%david.bitnet@uunet.uu.net -- Voice 708-752-8847 - Internet 192.138.89.15 -- mkbaird%david@uunet.uu.net
I do not think it is at all unlikely that Clinton ro his policy wonk facilitators arranged the Waco raid as a display piece for the Gun War on the Constitution. Look at what the Bush administration did to get material for the Drug War on the Constitution--remember that baggie of crack George waved at the cameras? They took a dealer from the ghetto and brought him to the White House so they could say drugs had been dealt onb the White House Lawn. And I don't think anybody could honestly think Clinton would have any moral qualms about the raid... The only really worrisome thing is that the BD's heroic defense of their ranch will make Clinton's Gun War on the Constitution _more_ successfull--exactly as he wanted. The media and politicians will filter this so that the general public will think the BD's are bad guys! Don't help them. Stand up for the BD's with your friends and family adnd in public anytime you can--their supposed moral qualms are not important to the issue. They are heroes in the fight against oppressive government; it could just as well have been you. -watkins@earth.eecs.uic.edu (Brian E Watkins)
You have done no such thing. An Islamic bank is a bank which operates according to the rules of Islam in regard to banking. This is done explicitly by the bank. This was not the case with BCCI. This is crap. BCCI was motivated by the same motives as other international banks, with perhaps an emphasis on dealing with outlaws and the intelligence services of various governments. Back to childish propaganda again. You really ought to get a life rather than wasting bandwith on such empty typing. There are thousands of Islamic banks operating throughout the world which no-one ever hears about. If you want to talk about corrupted banks we can talk about all the people who've been robbed by American banks.
I'm totally p*-o'd, too! Vancouver-Winnipeg is great west-coast hockey - fast-paced and loads of talent. What I've seen so far is hardly entertaining, with the exception of the odd shift every now & then (of course I missed Calgary-LA & Pitts-Jersey...) Amen... That's cheaper than what I do - PHONE CALLS. (There must be a better system - one ring, Adams to Linden, he SCORES; two rings Bure rushes up the ice, he SCORES, etc etc :-))
My brother is in the market for a high-performance video card that supports VESA local bus with 1-2MB RAM. Does anyone have suggestions/ideas on: - Diamond Stealth Pro Local Bus - Orchid Farenheit 1280 - ATI Graphics Ultra Pro - Any other high-performance VLB card Please post or email. Thank you! - Matt
So was it on CNN or not? What proof. You said above: "was it not reported..." and "someone please give full details if they can remember". Hear say is not proof. Yes, like the 700 or more Palestinians brutally murdered by their brothers.
And now, I interrupt your regularly scheduled news reading to bring you another message sponsored by the Department of Really Mundane Statistics: I passed the final individual player stats posted here the other day through a filter to average out games, goals, assists, points, and penalty minutes for the mythical average NHL pro who played in the league this season. (Why? Because it's Monday and I didn't feel like writing any REAL code...) Anyway, after I wiped out the 60-odd goalies in the list, I came up with: NHL average: 55 GP 11 G 19 A 30 Pts 69 PIM Then I passed the list through a second time to come up with the players who had the smallest percentage difference in each of the categories. Marty McInnis (NYI) 56 GP (1%) 10 G (9%) 20 A (5%) 30 Pts (0%) 24 PIM (65%) Igor Kravchuk (EDM) 55 GP (0%) 10 G (9%) 17 A (10%) 27 Pts (9%) 27 PIM (53%) These two are close in games, goals, assists, and points, but are too far off in PIM. This leaves, as the most average player in the NHL: Bobby Carpenter (WAS) 65 GP (18%) 11 G (0%) 17 A (10%) 28 Pts (6%) 63 PIM (8%) What an honor. I also passed the list through with the goalies still included. Kravchuk and Carpenter were still in the top three, but Rob DiMaio came flying up from behind to take the title: NHL average: 53 GP 10 G 17 A 27 Pts 64 PIM Igor Kravchuk (EDM) 55 GP (3%) 10 G (0%) 17 A (0%) 27 Pts (0%) 27 PIM (50%) Bobby Carpenter (WAS) 65 GP (22%) 11 G (10%) 17 A (0%) 28 Pts (3%) 63 PIM (1%) Rob DiMaio (TB) 54 GP (1%) 9 G (9%) 15 A (11%) 24 Pts (11%) 62 PIM (3%) It's all really kind of underwhelming when you think about it. -SG
Give out the address, I'll drive by and take a look myself, then post.
Approximately four months ago, I purchased a Quantum 240LPS HD from La Cie for $649. After two months, the drive started having problems. First, there were intermittent freezes, then corrupted files and resources, then Silverlining 5.41 wouldn't even recognize the drive. So I got an RMA from La Cie and exchanged the new drive for a reconditioned one. Well, about a month has passed now and the second drive is having problems. Often, when I boot up my IIsi I get the flashing question mark. Sometimes, if I then insert the Silverlining (5.42) program I can get it to recognize the drive by making it scan over and over for drives. At that point I can restart the IIsi and boot from the HD. I've called La Cie again and they've given me another RMA. Their tech support people tell me that if Silverlining doesn't see the drive there's a definite hardware problem. Given that this is the second bad drive in four months, I asked La Cie to send me a *new* one, but they said "no." Also, within three weeks after I purchased my original drive, La Cie dropped the price on it by over $100. I can accept that a drive (or two) may be bad. And I know that hardware vendors make a practice of sending reconditioned replacements when they do repairs. And I understand that the nature of the computer industry lends itself to sudden price fluctuations. Nevertheless, taken together, the convergence of these facts/events have left a bad taste in my mouth. (I should have added above that when I asked La Cie to transfer the contents of my current drive to the one they will send_I think the data is still in good shape and I'll have to again reinstall everything from floppies_they said it would cost me $250 for data recovery.) It seems to me that reconditioned hardware should be sold as reconditioned at a discounted price, and that replacements for new hardware gone bad (still covered under a 90-day warranty) should be new. I feel a little helpless about all this. I don't mean to necessarily flame La Cie_their support staff have always been friendly and sometimes even helpful. But c'mon. Sometimes a little extra customer service goes a long way. (I sent a letter to La Cie's customer service when the first drive was returned and I asked them for a credit on the price difference since I had purchased the drive three weeks before they slashed the price. I told them I would like to apply the credit toward the purchase of another La Cie product. They didn't even have the courtesy to reply one way or the other.) What's the moral of this story? I'm not sure. But I do know I won't buy any other products from La Cie in the future. Bill Krauthammer f2ehg786@umiami.ir.miami.edu
At the cost of repudiating the FAQ, I think too much is made of the strong vs weak atheism issue, although in the context of alt.atheism, where we're continually attacked on the basis that strong atheists "believe" in the non-existence of god, I think the separation is a valid one. To cover my arse, what I'm trying to say is that there is an infinitely grey area between weak and strong, as well as between strong and the unattainable mathematical atheism (I wish!). Whereas I _logically_ can only support the weak atheist position, in effect I am a strong atheist (and wish I could be a mathematical one). To justify my strong atheist position I believe I need only show that the evidence presented in favour of any of the gods under scrutiny is faulty. If I read the FAQ correctly, no argument for the existence of god (generic, as represented by mainstream theologians) has ever been found to be unassailable. To me this is adequate evidence that the _real_god_ is undefinable (or at least no definition has yet been found to be watertight), which in turn I accept as sufficient to base a disbelief in each and every conceivable god. I'm a little fuzzy on the edges, though, so opinions are welcome (but perhaps we should change the thread subject).
Not quite. 66MHz Pentium - 65 SPECint92, 57 SPECfp92 . 66MHz MC98601 - 50 SPECint92, 80 SPECfp92 . Note that SPECint is more important for most real world applications. As far as the 486DX2-66 goes - 32 SPECint92, 16 SPECfp92 . Intel chips have traditionally been faster than their Motorola "equivalents" although the significance of chip speed in real world application performance is something that is highly debatable. -- Ravikumar Venkateswar rvenkate@uiuc.edu
The Cold War has not ended. The only thing that has happened is that the two sides have exchanged roles. The USA has a higher imprisonment rate (400 per 100,000 population) than any country in Europe by a factor of 10 or so. In California, it is over 600 per 100,000 population. The prison population in California is now over 100,000, a quadrupling since 1980. Most of these inmates were convicted under the drug prohibition laws. Police now confiscate property, without trial, under a "good faith probable cause" standard, in the name of depriving the horrible ghastly drug dealers of their ill-gotten gains. Conduct an opinion poll, and a majority will answer "yes" if you ask them whether civil liberties and due process should be diluted in order to Send Our Young People The Message That We Are Serious About Winning The War On Drugs. I don't know whether anyone has measured such a figure among gun owners, but I would expect the same result. They certainly seem to vote that way. According to Jack Herer's book _The Emperor Wears No Clothes_, over TWELVE MILLION YEARS of prison time have been served under the marijuana prohibition laws, by people who were minding their own business and causing no harm to others (and less harm to themselves than users of tobacco, with 400,000 confirmed kills/year). Under the "War on Drugs" campaign of "zero tolerance" due process protections have eroded, and mandatory sentences of ten years without parole have proliferated. By and large, gun owners have voted for the politicians who favor such measures. And now, all the precedents--not only legal, but political: "My fellow Americans, we must send our young people the message that we are serious about winning the War On Murder"--are going to be applied to the oncoming wave of gun prohibition laws. Gun owners are about to get a taste of the medicine they voted for believing it would be used only on those with different tastes in recreational drugs. What goes around comes around.
From article <1993Apr15.092101@IASTATE.EDU>, by tankut@IASTATE.EDU (Sabri T Atan): There were a couple millions of Greeks living in Asia Minor until 1923. Someone had to protect them. If not us who?? Compromise on what, the invasion of Cyprus, the involment of Turkey in Greek politics, the refusal of Turkey to accept 12 miles of territorial waters as stated by international law, the properties of the Greeks of Konstantinople, the ownership of the islands in the Greek lake,sorry, Aegean. There are some things on which there can not be a compromise. Any person who supports the policies of the Turkish goverment directly or indirecly is a "bad" person. It is not your nationality that makes you bad, it is your support of the actions of your goverment that make you "bad". People do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you are. You are a supporter of the policies of the Turkish goverment and as a such you must pay the price. You do not need brainwashing to turn people against the Turks. Just talk to Greeks, Arabs, Slavs, Kurds and all other people who had the luck to be under Turkish occupation. They will talk to you about murders,rapes,distruction. You do not learn about Turks from history books, you learn about them from people who experienced first hand Turkish friendliness.
[snip] [stats deleted - we've all seen them by now] I nominate this last bit for "Anti-Stathead Quote of the Week". Alomar only has a 50 point advantage in the most important offensive category, while Baerga, who studied in the Joe Carter School of Out-Burning, has more impressive mediot stats, largely due to opportunities rather than quality. The lines are fairly close in value, but edge to Alomar. Now Baerga ain't chopped liver, but Alomar is still the man to beat among AL second basemen... --Craig
I don't think we need to argue about this. Yes, but also many people who are not trying to make government recognize Christianity as the dominant religion in this country do no think the motto infringes upon the rights of others who do not share their beliefs. And actually, I think that the government already does recognize that Christianity is the dominant religion in this country. I mean, it is. Don't you realize/recognize this? This isn't to say that we are supposed to believe the teachings of Christianity, just that most people do. If you agree with me, then what are we discussing? No, but I hear quite a bit about Christmas, and little if anything about Jesus. Wouldn't this figure be more prominent if the holiday were really associated to a high degree with him? Or are you saying that the association with Jesus is on a personal level, and that everyone thinks about it but just never talks about it? That is, can *you* prove that most people *do* associate Christmas most importantly with Jesus? I think the numbers *do* matter. It takes a majority, or at least a majority of those in power, to discriminate. Doesn't it?
Could some kind soul please email ma a response since i don't have much time to read this group. Question: I have a 170 MB hard drive which currently has 10 MB left. How much space will DoubleSpace allow me to have?? I have a 486 50 w/ 4 MB Ram if it matters. Thanks in advance Jason -- Jason Brown cs1442au@decster.uta.edu
What 4 or more com port boards are available for PCs? We want standard com ports, so no need to mention the expensive coprocessed ones. They should either be able to share IRQs or be able to use IRQs 8-15.
+>The Golan Heights is a serious security problem, and Israel obviously +>will have to keep part of it and give up part of it. (One should +>remember that the Golan Heights had been part of the area that was to +>be in Britain's Palestine Mandate, slated to become part of the Jewish +>state, until Britain traded it to France for other considerations. In +>other words, it is an historical accident that it was ever part of +>Syria.) The Palestine mandate had no borders before the borders were negotiated and drawn. The most the Golan may have been is on the list of what territories Britian would have liked to see in the palestine mandate. Until the mandates came into existance, there were no defined boundaries between any of the various territories in the region.
[ Article crossposted from temple.forsale ] [ Author was Ray Lauff (ray@astro.ocis.temple.edu) ] [ Posted on Wed, 21 Apr 1993 01:04:27 GMT ] Regular CBS/FOX release of the wide screen edition of the movie The Abyss for sale, asking $30, including postage. I want to purchase the new director's cut and would like to unload this LaserDisc if possible. Two discs, unopened, 132 minutes, letterbox. Email me if interested. ray@astro.ocis.temple.edu Ray -- Ray Lauff | Temple University Computer Services | ray_lauff@astro.temple.edu
Hi there, Does anyone know about any greek database/word processor that can do things like count occurrences of a word, letter et al? I'm posting this up for a friend who studies greek. Thanks, Nico. P.S. Can you email as I seldom look into usenet nowadays. -- +--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ +--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
04/19/1993 0000 Lezghis Astir By NEJLA SAMMAKIA Associated Press Writer GUSSAR, Azerbaijan (AP) -- The 600,000 Lezghis of Azerbaijan and Russia have begun clamoring for their own state, threatening turmoil in a tranquil corner of the Caucasus. The region has escaped the ethnic warfare of neighboring Nagorno-Karabakh, Abkhazia and Ossetia, but Lezhgis could become the next minority in the former Soviet Union to fight for independence. Lezghis, who are Muslim descendents of nomadic shepherds, are angry about the conscription of their young men to fight in Azerbaijan's 5-year-old undeclared war with Armenia. They also want to unite the Lezghi regions of Azerbaijan and Russia, which were effectively one until the breakup of the Soviet Union created national borders that had been only lines on a map. A rally of more than 3,000 Lezghis in March to protest conscription and demand a separate "Lezghistan" alarmed the Azerbaijani government. Officials in Baku, the capital, deny rumors that police shot six demonstrators to death. But the government announced strict security measures and began cooperating with Russian authorities to control the movement of Lezhgis living across the border in the Dagestan region of Russia. Visitors to Gussar, the center of Lezhgi life, found the town quiet soon after the protest. Children played outdoors in the crisp mountain air. At the Sunday bazaar, men in heavy coats and dark fur hats gathered to discuss grievances ranging from high customs duties at the Russian border to a war they say is not theirs. "I have been drafted, but I won't go," said Shamil Kadimov, gold teeth glinting in the sun. "Why must I fight a war for the Azerbaijanis? I have nothing to do with Armenia." More than 3,000 people have died in the war, which centers on the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh, about 150 miles to the southeast. Malik Kerimov, an official in the mayor's office, said only 11 of 300 locals drafted in 1992 had served. "The police don't force people to go," he said. "They are afraid of an uprising that could be backed by Lezghis in Dagestan." All the men agreed that police had not fired at the demonstrators, but disagreed on how the protest came about. Some said it occurred spontaneously when rumors spread that Azerbaijan was about to draft 1,500 men from the Gussar region, where 75,000 Lezghis live. Others said the rally was ordered by Gen. Muhieddin Kahramanov, leader of the Lezhgi underground separatist movement, Sadval, based in Dagestan. "We organized the demonstration when families came to us distraught about draft orders," said Kerim Babayev, a mathematics teacher who belongs to Sadval. "We hope to reunite peacefully, by approaching everyone -- the Azerbaijanis, the Russians." In the early 18th century, the Lezhgis formed two khanates, or sovereignties, in what are now Azerbaijan and Dagestan. They roamed freely with their sheep over the green hills and mountains between the two khanates. By 1812, the Lezghi areas were joined to czarist Russia. After 1917, they came under Soviet rule. With the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the 600,000 Lezghis were faced for the first time with strict borders. About half remained in Dagestan and half in newly independent Azerbaijan. "We have to pay customs on all this, on cars, on wine," complained Mais Talibov, a small trader. His goods, laid out on the ground at the bazaar, included brandy, stomach medication and plastic shoes from Dagestan. "We want our own country," he said. "We want to be able to move about easily. But Baku won't listen to us." Physically, it is hard for outsiders to distinguish Lezhgis from other Azerbaijanis. In many villages, they live side by side, working at the same jobs and intermarrying to some degree. But the Lezhgis have a distinctive language, a mixture of Arabic, Turkish and Persian with strong guttural vowels. Azerbaijan officially supports the cultural preservation of its 10 largest ethnic minorities. The Lezghis have weekly newspapers and some elementary school classes in their language. Autonomy is a different question. If the Lezghis succeeded in separating from Azerbaijan, they would set a precedent for other minorities, such as the Talish in the south, the Tats in the nearby mountains and the Avars of eastern Azerbaijan.
None. You need to buy 2 80ns 256k VRAM SIMMs. They cost about $30 each from your favorite memory distributor. The 512k is soldered to the logic board. There are 2 SIMM slots for expansion.
It's there.....
According to the official documentation, failure to use the IIfx terminator can not only affect SCSI bus performance but can also damage the bus. Whether this is your problem or not I don't know. I have had sporadic SCSI problems with my IIfx since I bought it. (I cannot connect more than three devices, fourth one causes major problems). First thing to do is to try to reformat your drive on someone elses system. If you continue to get errors it is probably the drive. If it formats fine then I would try to format it on your system with no externals. If this fails then the SCSI controller on your IIfx needs repair/replacement. Hope this helps.
What group is this? This is not a MAC group. Why the spec list again? We are talking SCSI on a PC, not on a MAC or a UNIX box. And we are talking ISA bus, or possibly EISA or VLB. This isin't comp.periphs.SCSI. Tell me what the performance figures are with a single SCSI drive on a PC with an ISA (or EISA or VLB) bus. Theoretical performance figures are not relevant to this group or this debate. I'm sure that there are some platforms out there that can handle the 40 megs/sec of SCSI xyz wide'n'fast, but the PC isin't one of them.
Hi, has anyone more info about the XGA-2 chipset? HW-funcs, TrueColor, Resolutions,... Any boards with XGA-2 out yet? thanks Rainer -- Rainer Leberle rleberle@sparc2.cstp.umkc.edu University of Kansas City, MO
[flame-bait, pure and simple]
Ok, someone is fundamentalist, someone else is not. What defines a fundamentalist (Not who!!!!!!!!!). That is an essential question which nobody has agreed upon an answer, at least to what literature / discussion / news i've seen..
All right. Not saying I know any more than the average salesguy, I'll give your question a shot. The key issue that I bought my BJ-200 on was ink drying speed. You really have to try awful hard to get the BJ-200 ink to smear. The HP DeskJets need 10-15 seconds to completely dry. In both cases, however, do not get your pages wet. Unlike laser printers, the material on your pages is INK, not toner. But that should go without saying. My PC has very little memory (only 2Meg RAM), so the BJ-200 takes a little while to print ----- but every application I use takes a while to run. Once the computer is solely printing, it purs like a kitten and puts pages out every 15-30 seconds, depending on how detailed your graphics are. The BJ-200 can do Windows soft fonts. I'm assuming that the DeskJet can, or HP wouldn't sell many...... Size is another factor. The BJ-200 is much smaller, but the HP is built like a tank. I bet the BJ-200 would get damaged first. Finally, the print quality. I LOVE the BJ-200's resolution. It looks like a good laser quality print. The HP's I've used.....they look like ink. Not as impressive.
That's okay: it's what all the rest of them who come on here say... This isn't the guy who was a lawyer was he? Could you give more info on this guy (never mind- I'm sure there will be PLENTY of responses to this post, and it will appear there) This is true. Make sure it is true for ALL cases. Why not both? ;) Why not die for a lie? If you were poverty stricken and alunatic, sounds perfecetly reasoable to me. As to whether the societal dregs he had for followers would be able to tell if he was a liar or not, not necessarily. Even if he died for what he believed in, this still makes him completely selfish. Like us all. So what's the difference. People There is no historical proof of this (see earlier threads). Besides, he (or at least his name), have been the cause of enough deaths to make up for whatever healing he gave. SIEG HEIL!! Who is David Koresh? I am curious. Therefore since he wasn't a liar or a lunatic, he must have been the How does this follow? Your definition of lunatic (and "disproof" thereof seem rather... uhhh.. SHAKY) Good idea. Naturally, those or not TRUE Christians, right? ;) Someone else handle this, I don't know if it's worth it... *sigh*
But what about second sources for pin-compatible non-Clipper algorithm chips that also have escrowed keys? If a "reputable firm" produces a chip (with escrowed key) that is a pop-in replacement for the Clipper chip in my phone, and uses an algorithm that is widely known and evaluated and "trusted," then what's the problem? The Clipper is going to be reverse engineered anyway by any organization with sufficient resources (can you say "billions of cocaine dollars?") so those drug dealers they're so worried about will be slipping through the cracks. We law-abiding (non-incredibly-wealthy) citizens, naturally, will not have this recourse. But claiming that the algorithm can't be released to prevent people from using non-key-escrowed chips is plain deceitful... analysis of the chip output will provide information on the necessary headers and whatnot, so the "bad guys" could build chips using a *different* algorithm and still not escrow their keys. Or, they could just buy bunches of cheap phones at K-mart every week, and play Swap-the-Clipper-Chip with their cellular phone every day.
If given a definite definition of "God", it is sometimes possible to falsify the existance of that God. But, when one refuses to give an immutable definition, one can not. --- " Whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. "
[Text deleted, no value judgement implied] More than shocking. What this says to me is no less than that government is very interested in monitoring the public. This does more than scare me, it mortifies me. PGP and RIPEM must become widespread enough to resist what Mr. Finney has [IMHO correctly] identified as the next logical step. What was once an academic discussion with regard to concealing cyphertext, has now become a real consideration. The rhetoric that the clinton administration seems obsessed with, harmony, either or propositions, tension, tells me that they know how difficult it will be to sell this proposition. The phrase I hear more and more is "I can't believe this is actually happening here." Call me conserative, Clinton was a huge mistake that we'll all be paying for tommorow and many years from now. Have we approached the age of speakeasy public key depositiories? uni (Dark)
John Berryhill, Ph.D. writes umm, please don't lump us all together. It's those blatant, fundamentalist pickers that give the rest of us a bad name. Some of us try very hard to be discreet and stay alert.
I'm not sure who the "original respondent" was but to reiterate cones respond to particular portions of the spectrum, just as _rods_ respond to certain parts of the visible spectrum (bluegreen in our case, reddish in certain amphibia), just as the hoseshoe crab _Limulus polyphemus_ photoreceptors respond to a certain portion of the spectrum etc. It is a common misconception to confound wavelength specificity with being color sensitive, however the two are not synonymous. So in sum and to beat a dead horse: (1) When the outputs of a cone are matched for number of absorbed photons _irrespective_ of the absorbed photons wavelength, the cone outputs are _indistinguishable_. (2) Cones are simply detectors with different spectral sensitivities and are not any more "color sensitive" than are rods, ommatidia or other photoreceptors. (3) Color vision arises because outputs of receptors which sample different parts of the spectrum (cones in this case) are "processed centrally". (The handwave is intentional) I've worked and published research on rods and cones for over 10 years so the adherence to the belief that cones can "detect color" is frustrating. But don't take my word for it. I'm reposting a few excellent articles together with two rather good but oldish color vision texts. The texts: Robert Boynton (1979) _Human Color Vision_ Holt, Rhiehart and Winston Leo M. Hurvich (1981) _Color Vision_, Sinauer Associates. The original articles: Baylor and Hodgkin (1973) Detection and resolution of visual stimuli by turtle phoreceptors, _J. Physiol._ 234 pp163-198. Baylor Lamb and Yau (1978) Reponses of retinal rods to single photons. _J. Physiol._ 288 pp613-634. Schnapf et al. (1990) Visual transduction in cones of the monkey _Macaca fascicularis_. J. Physiol. 427 pp681-713. -- Edwin Barkdoll barkdoll@lepomis.psych.upenn.edu eb3@world.std.com
It is good to remember that every translation is to some extent an interpretation, so (as you point out below) one must really go back to the original Arabic. Regarding the verses relevant to nature, I prefer to use Dr. Maurice Bucaille's translations (in his book, "The Bible, the Qur'an and Science") for in general his translations are more literal. Maurice Bucaille translates the portion of the verse you are addressing as "...Each one is travelling with an orbit in its own motion." (Also note that "the celestial bodies" in the first translation quoted by you above is the translator's interpolation -- it is not existent in the original Arabic, which is why it is included in brackets.) You're right, what the verses _do_ contain isn't all that remarkable. However, Dr. Bucaille (a surgeon, that's how he's a "Dr.") thinks it is significant that the above verse contains no geocentric ideas, even though geocentrism was all the rage up until the 17th century (?) or so. (And this goes for the rest of the Qur'an as well, which has about 750 verses or so regarding nature, I think I remember reading once.)
(forgive any inaccuracies, i deleted the original post) isn't this the same person who wrote the book, and was censured in canada a few years back?
The docs say that it's a SCSI Manager bug, if this changes things at all...
You should be able to pick up an ADB cable at any computer wiring store... I'd give you the address of Alberta Computer cable in Calgary, but a: I'm in Victoria (B.C., Canada) and b: I don't think an address in Calgary would help you too much....basically however I just phoned them up, and they charged me approx. $15 cnd for a custom made ADB extension cable for my mouse. Hope this helps...
sandvik@newton.apple.com (Kent Sandvik) writes... KS, I see you're wanting Malcolm's response. Allow me one last inter- jection then please: Distinguishing among the religious Jews, you've excepted the Messianic for obvious reasons. Specifically, are you saying it's these religious Jews, who trace their lineage back to Abraham by blood and orthodoxy, rather than by faith, who won't agree? Orthodox Jews? As to the a/a (if I understand your direction), the issue remains unproven I suspect, considering how atheists and agnostics so often look to reason. Atheist, it is reasonable to conclude will not agree. For agnostics, a poll seems in order. Who knows? Myself, I'm not so sure the atheists can be counted out. For the orthodox, I wonder how many would follow Moses, or Abraham, or David in accepting God's Word? Is the particular covenant to which one adheres, more important than God promisimg? I reckon for many it depends on the ongoing dialogue. Under these considerations, you might understand why I think it's premature to assert who will and won't agree.
Somewhere, someone told me that Satan was the angel in charge of music in heaven, and on top of that, he was the most beautiful of the angels. Isn't it funny that these days how MTV has become the "bible" of music and beauty these days. MTV controls what bands are popular, no matter how bad they are. In fact, it is better to be politically correct - like U2, Madonna - than to have any musical talent. Then of course, you have this television station that tells us all how to dress. Think about it, who started the retro-fashion craze?? MTV and Madonna. Gag. Anyway, just food for thought. It is really my own wierd theory. If Revelation was to come true today, I think MTV would the "ever changing waters" (music and fashion world) that the beast would arise from, and Madonna will be the whore of Babylon, riding the beast and drinking the blood of the martyrs. Hmmmm....great idea for a book/movie.....
Will someone tell an ignorant physicist where the term "Level 5" comes from? It sounds like the RISKS Digest equivalent of Large, Extra Large, Jumbo... Or maybe it's like "Defcon 5..." I gather it means that Shuttle software was developed with extreme care to have reliablility and safety, and almost everything else in the computing world is Level 1, or cheesy dime-store software. Not surprising. But who is it that invents this standard, and how come everyone but me seems to be familiar with it?
You're kidding, right? This is Flame bait in the extreme. V-max handling? Har har har har....
George. It's called a democracy. The majority rules. sorry. If ytou don't like it, I suggest you modify the constitution to include a constitutional right to Dark Skies. The theory of government here is that the majority rules, except in the nature of fundamental civil rights. If you really are annoyed, get some legislation to create a dark sky zone, where in all light emissions are protected in the zone. Kind of like the national radio quiet zone. Did you know about that? near teh Radio telescope observatory in West virginia, they have a 90?????? mile EMCON zone. Theoretically they can prevent you from running light AC motors, like air conditioners and Vacuums. In practice, they use it mostly to control large radio users.
There are actually only two of us. I do Henry, Fred, Tommy and Mary. Oh yeah, this isn't my real name, I'm a bald headed space baby.
From: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker) > Oh great. Wonderful news. Nobody can listen in--except the feds. Hey, it's better than the status quo. I am far less worried about "the feds" tapping my phone than high school scanner surfers who get their kicks out of eavesdropping on cellular and cordless phone calls. I'm a political dissident. I'm scared shitless of the feds listening in on my calls. My opinions are the sort that would get me "disappeared" in a slightly less free society -- and who knows what sort of society we will be in in five or ten years? I have friends who have had their phones tapped -- none of this is theoretical to me. As for "its better than the status quo", well, first of all, you can get a cryptophone from companies like Cylink today -- and they work well. In addition, a number of groups are now working on building software to turn any PC into a privacy enhanced phone right now -- and they are all working in overdrive mode. And yes, I'd rather just see all crypto restrictions lifted, but this is at least an incrememental improvement for certain applications... There ARE no crypto restrictions... yet. You can use anything you want RIGHT NOW. The point is to maintain that right. -- Perry Metzger pmetzger@shearson.com
I am going to be getting a C650 soon, but I don;t want Apple to come out with the Cyclones and the Tempest in a month and have the price drop on the system I want. I have negotiated a good deal with a supplier for a C650 8/80 and I would like to jump on it, but, again, I don't want the price drop to smuther me. BTW, the deal I have is a C650 8/80 with mouse for $2295... does anyone know of a better deal? thanks,
Unless there has been a _major_ change in the law, there's no such beast as a "classified patent." Patents exist to encourage communications and develop the state of the art. (The 17-year lock is a nuisance, but historically has been pretty trivial. It's only in an industry which doubles performance every three years (or 18 months, for some hardware) that 17 years is an eternity). The same thing applies in civilian development: you can't patent something _and_ declare it a "trade secret." However, you can (and should) mark all software (including proprietary code) "unpublished copyright" so that it ever does get exposed you still have some legal protection. (Post-Berne this isn't required, since everything is "born copyrighted." But it takes a while for people to learn the new rules).
Crullerian. Crullerian photography isn't educational, except in a purely satiric sense. Crullerian photography involves putting donuts between grease-covered hot metal plates while illuminating them with a Krypton Stroboscope. Through a unique iteration involving the 4th-dimensional projection of a torus through the semi-stochastic interactions of hot monomolecular lipid layers covering the metal plates (the best metal is iron since it repels Vampires and Succubi) the donuts start developing flutes, and within moments actually become poly-crenellated hot greasy breadtubes. Some people believe that food is the way to a man's heart, but most psychics agree that there is nothing like hot Crullers for breakfast; the chemical composition of crullers is a mystery, some thought evidence of Charles Fort's channeling in Stevie Wonder's production of "The Secret Life of Plants" when played backwards in the theatre of unnaturally fertile Findhorn Farms has deduced that they are complex carbohydrates ordinarily only found by spectoscopy in the Magellenic Clouds. I called Devi on my Orgone Box and asked her if this was really the case, and she TM levitated me a letter across the Atlantic to tell me it was indeed not just another case of misunderstanding Tesla, though the Miskatonic University hasn't confirmed anything at all. At least the Crullers taste good; I got the recipe from Kaspar Hauser.
There is a new version of the RTrace ray-tracing package (8.2.0) at asterix.inescn.pt [192.35.246.17] in directory pub/RTrace. Check the README file. RTrace now can use the SUIT toolkit to have a nice user interface. Compile it with -DSUIT or modify the Makefile. SUIT is available at suit@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu I have binaries of RTrace with SUIT for SUN Sparc, SGI Indigo and DOS/GO32. Please contact me if interested. **************************************** The MAC RTrace 1.0 port is in directory pub/RTrace/Macintosh Thanks to Reid Judd (reid.judd@east.sun.com) and Greg Ferrar (gregt@function.mps.ohio-state.edu). **************************************** Small changes were done since version 8.1.0, mainly: 1. Now it is possible to discard backface polygons and triangles for fast preview... 2. The support program scn2sff has been reworked to use temp files. **************************************** Here goes a short description of current converters from CAD/molecular/chemistry packages to the SCN format. The package programs are related as below (those marked with * have been modified) irit2scn IRIT ----------------| | NFF (nffclean, nffp2pp) sol2scn | | ACAD11 ---------------| | nff2sff | | mol2scn v scn2sff* v rtrace* ALCHEMY -----------> SCN -----------> SFF ----------> PIC or PPM ^ cpp | pdb2scn | picmix PDB -----------------| picblend | ppmmix* chem2scn | ppmblend* CHEMICAL --------------| | 3ds2scn* | 3D STUDIO --------------| | iv2scn* | IRIS Inventor -----------| **************************************** The DOS port of RTrace is in pub/RTrace/PC-386 (rtrac820.arj, utils820.arj and image820.arj). See the README file there. Requires DJGPP GO32 DOS extender (version 1.09 included), which can be found in directory pub/PC/djgpp (and in many sites around netland). There are also demo scenes, manuals and all the source code... **************************************** Please feel free to get it and use it. Hope you like it.
Did anyone notice the words "NOT FOR BASEBALL" printed on the picture of Joe Robbie Stadium in the Opening Day season preview section in USA Today? Any reason given for this? Also, I just noticed something looking at the Nolan Ryan timeline in the preview. On 8/22/89, Rickey Henderson became Nolan's 5000th strikeout. On 6/11/90 he pitched his 6th no-hitter against Oakland. I believe the last out in the game was made by Rickey Henderson. And on 5/1/91, Nolan pitched his 7th no-hitter on the same day a certain someone stole his 939th base, which overshadowed it. It seems that Nolan is having a lot of publicity at Rickey's expense. IMO, Rickey deserves it, and it seems as most of the net agrees with me from what I've seen on it lately. They are both great players, but IMO, Nolan has outclassed Rickey, both in playing and more importantly, in attitude. Just my thoughts.
For sale in the Baltimore - DC Area One Mac 2X 8/80 with Radius 24 Bit Color Dual Page display and adapter Microtek 300Z color scanner QMS ColorScript 10 Color Postscript Printer 2400 Baud Modem Dyanfile with 360 K and 1.2Meg Floppies 30 Software packages including Pagemaker, Quark Express, Style, Photoshop, etc $7000 OBO One Compaq LTE 286 with internal modem and 1.5 Meg ram 20 Hard drive $750 OBO One Compaq SLT 286 with 5 Meg ram and 40 Meg Hard drive $950 OBO One Compaq 386N motherboard only Make an offer this has just returned from Compaq Service. Six Muxes with 9600 Baud modems built in. Make an offer 20 S-100 CPU from a Multi-user TurboDos system Offer
Hello, I am not sure if this is the right conference to ask this question, however, Here I go.. I am a commercial fisherman and I fell about 3 weeks ago down into the hold of the boat and broke or cracked a rib and wrenched and bruised my back and left arm. My question, I have been to a doctor and was told that it was best to do nothing and it would heal up with no long term effect, and indeed I am about 60 % better, however, the work I do is very hard and I am still not able to go back to work. The thing that worries me is the movement or "clunking" I feel and hear back there when I move certain ways... I heard some one talking about the rib they broke years ago and that it still bothers them.ÿ. any opinions? thanx and cheers
Here's a list of 800 numbers I have compiled from other sources... anybody got anything to add? It's formatted for Alpha, and looks fine for me, so don't complain if it doesn't look good to you. * Adobe 1-415-961-0911 FAX info 1-800-235-0078 * Aldus 1-206-622-5500 * Alladin 1-408-685-9175 * Altsys 1-214-680-2060 * APDA 1-800-282-2732 (Apple Prog Dev Assoc) * Apple Computer 1-408-996-1010 * Apple Customer 1-800-776-2333 Non-Tech assistance * APS 1-800-233-7550 (Alliance Peripheral Sys) * ASD Softwae 1-714-624-2594 FAX 1-714-624-9574 * Berkeley Systems 1-415-540-5535 * Cayman Systems 1-800-473-4776 * CE Software 1-515-224-1953 * Claris 1-408-727-8227 1-408-727-9054 Claris Software 1-800-3CL-ARIS * Compatible Systems 1-800-356-0283 * Computer Associates C.A 1-408-648-4000 * Connectix 1-800-950-5880 * DataViz 1-203-268-0300 * Dayna 1-801-972-2000 * DeltaPoint 1-800-367-4334 * Deneba 1-305-594-6965 * Dr.Mac: 1-800-825-6227 * Fifth Generation 1-800-873-4384 * GreatWave 1-408-438-1990 * ICOM Simulations 1-708-520-4440 * MacAvenue: 1-800-926-6221 * MacConnection: 1-800-334-4444 * MacLand: 1-800-888-8779 * MacroMind 1-415-442-0200 * Mac's Place: 1-800-367-4222 * MacWarehouse: 1-800-255-6227 * Microcom 1-919-490-1277 * Microsoft 1-800-426-9400 Educational: 1-800-227-4679 General: 1-206-882-8088 Sales and Services: 1-800-426-9400 Then punch: 1 Technical Assistance 2 University * Shiva 1-617-864-8100 * Silicon Beach 1-619-695-6956 * Symantec 1-800-441-7234 * The Mac Zone: 1-800-248-0800 * Chip Merchant 1-800-426-6375 * ClearPoint Computers 1-800-253-2778 * ClubMac 1-800-CLU-BMAC * Delta Research Labs 1-800-999-1593 * Diamond 1-800-541-7126 * Dynamic Electronics 1-800-845-8228 * ETC 1-800-882-2863 * Global Village Telecom. 1-800-736-4821 Mac ADB modems * Lifetime Memory 1-800-233-6233 * LLB 1-800-848-8967 * Macproducts USA 1-800 MAC DISK * MacProducts: 1-800-MAC-USA1 * Megabyte Memory 1-800-748-5766 Products * Memory International 1-800-266-0488 * Memory Plus 1-800-388-PLUS * Micro Electronic Tech 1-800-766-7466 * Newer Technology 1-800-678-3726 * Peripheral Outlet 1-800-332-6581 * PSI 1-800-622-1722 * Quadmation 1-800-733-7887 * Shecom Computers 1-800-366-4433 * SII Micros 1-800-424-1126 * South Coast Electronics 1-800-289-8801 * Stratum Technologies 1-800-533-1744 * Technology Works 1-800-688-7466 * Texas Macstuf 1-800-MAC-STUF * Third Wave Computing 1-800-284-0486 * Third Wave 1-800-284-0846 * Turbo Technologies 1-800-542-7466
Well my last two motorcycles have been shaft driven and they will wheelie. The rear gear does climb the ring gear and lift the rear which gives an odd feel, but it still wheelies.
Well, simply put, drinking is irrelavent. Driving drunk is indefensable and unforgivable. There is a large differnece. But, then, with an attitude like yours, I expect you'll be dead soon. I just hope you don't take a human being out with you.
1. There is a similar idea here in ex-USSR about how many militioners it needs to place a new electric lamp. The answer is nine: one stays on a table and holds the lamp, four hold the table and turn it and yet four run around the table in opposite direction not to make the first feel bad (when being turned). Pitily, it lacks this kind of dark humour as Nick's msg does. 2. To my mind the signature should be smth like: / _ __ / . /_______/_/_______________ /________ /____/ /___ / _ / Albert
Alan, you can start by teaching your children that the perpetrators of crimes no more represent the "Black community" than racist hateful Whites represent the majority culture (although there are many ethnic minorities who have fallen into the very trap that you are struggling with, and believe otherwise). The trap is the easy way out. For yourself, I think it would be a good idea to realize that the demographics related to the crimes you speak of have less to do with race, and much to do with socioeconomic status and disenfranchisement. You're going to find higher crime within *any* community comprised of *any* ethnic group or subgroup that has become dysfunctional, whatever the factors leading to that dysfunction. With ethnic minorities it is more usually than not, as I said, socioeconomic disenfranchisement. If, for example, you lived in an area where there were very few Blacks, but quite a few poor-for-generations Whites, you'd see the crime statistics reflecting the dysfunction of those White people. Would you then worry about whther your children would begin to see Whites as undesireable or whatever? The trap springs into action when our innate compunction to define "us" and "other" raises its little voice. The trap becomes dangerous when we stop to listen to that little voice and stop thinking like rational humans. It's interesting that Blacks are traditionally seen as *the* or the *most* criminal element in many of our urban areas. I don't know the racial makeup of Phoenix, so I can't speak to your situation. However, I live in San Francisco, a city that loves to tout its "ethnic diversity". Here, we have Black gangs, Hispanic gangs, Asian (yes, the "model minority") gangs, and even a few White gangs. The Asian gangs have become a particularly troublesome element for law enforcement here, mainly due (I think) to their propensity for engaging in organized criminal activities. But ask people on the street and they'll, 8-out-of-10 times, tell you that Black gangs and crime are what they most fear. During the "disturbance" in Los Angeles last year many of the rioters and looters were not Black. Some were even White! I remember being amazed at television news scenes that showed looting mobs where there were maybe one or two Blacks at most! My perceptions, gleaned from TV news, were further corroborated by numerous friends and relatives that live in Los Angeles. This may have been the country's first truly multi-ethnic riot. Yet I know from face-to-face and online discussion that in the minds of America the popular perception is that it was a *Black* riot! In closing, I'd like to say that you raise some interesting points that really need discussion. Our country has spent too long ignoring the racism (and its attendant ills) that is very much a part of our culture. As a people, we are afraid to face up to some hurtful truths, and the problem becomes compounded *daily*. We cannot afford to do it much longer. I truly believe that the well-being of ALL OF US depends on changing our current course of denial and repression. I wish you and your children, and all other people, of *all* colors, luck in avoiding the "trap". Peace, my brother. m. --
: > until...and more Saturn retailers are built(like 2 in the same city), : ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ : ...most medium and large cities have...a small handful of Saturn dealers now Sacramento has two Saturn dealerships. : Mihir Shah
It seems to deter those who are executed from future criminal activity. Why don't you compare the rates at which blacks and whites commit crimes? Blacks commit crimes disproportionately, so in a perfectly fair penal system, blacks would be disproportionately represented. (Note: black vs. white crime rates is not a racial thing. It's probably an economic thing: poor people are more likely to commit crimes, and blacks are more likely to be poor. The way to reduce the proportion of minorities in prison is to increase the wealth of minorities.)
I have found that this isn't a very effective argument. Most atheists are perfectly willing to acknowledge the existence and ministry of Jesus--but are quite capable of rationalizing the miracles and the resurrection into misunderstandings, hoaxes, or simple fabrications. They can always make an analogy with the _Iliad_, a book that tells the story of the historical Trojan War, but also talks about gods and goddesses and their conversations. I don't think it's possible to convince atheists of the validity of Christianity through argument. We have to help foster faith and an understanding of God. I could be wrong--are there any former atheists here who were led to Christianity by argument?
Stupid me. I believed the Democrats stood for principles of personal privacy while it was the Neanderthal Republicans that wanted into every aspect of our lives. Clinton is just more clever than the other guy. Looks like gun control for privacy technology. One small step at a time. Remember "Defend Firearms - Defeat Dukakis", followed by Bush's soon-after- election support for gun-control? This is the Democrats' version "Defend Free Speech - Reject Republicans" followed by speech control. Wait a minute.... Let me think about this. Hmmm, I feel better now. I believe the White House when they tell us this first step is, in fact, the final step. All is OK. We've nothing to fear. They're here to help us. God bless America. Hey, like the grrreat J.R. "Bob" Dobbs says, you've got to pull the wool over your *own* eyes!
I'm posting this for a friend that runs a BBS. I'm not sure if its under DOS or Windows. He is interested in a board that has 16 ports on it. In another post, someone suggeted a DigiBoard, but didn't have too much info on it. Could someone give me information on any boards that they know of with the before mentioned configuration. Models. Specifications. Prices. Manufacturers. Thanks, Rob --
"Put not your trust in princes" is the Biblical proverb. The modern analog is governments. At the time of the founding of the US, the idea that citizens had rights above those of the government was not that common, but was explicit in the writings of the founders. To a considerable extent, Englishmen also had those rights. Yes, times change, and technology changes. The possibility of a few governments enserfing all of mankind was not possible until quite recently. In the feudal system, the lord was almost as restricted as the serfs, so having the people enserf themselves does not make anything better; most feudal lords, and even most slaveowners, did not mistreat those under them. Freedom of speech and freedom of religion are under real attack NOW.
Ashok, Is WinTrumpet available anywhere via anonymous ftp?
I just got out of the Army. Go signal corps or Intelligence; photointelligence interpretation. If you go ADA you might get to play with rockets but space will look pretty far away dug in the mud next to a grunt protecting the foward troops from low flying objects. Good Luck
Joint Press release ESA/UN No 18-93 Paris, 19 April 1993 UN/ESA joint training course on satellite applications to be held in Italy, 19-30 April The United Nations and the European Space Agency (ESA) are jointly organising a training course on the applications of satellite data gathered by the European Remote Sensing Satellite (ERS-1), to be held in Frascati, Italy, from 19 to 30 April. The training course will discuss the applications of satellite data concerning natural resources, renewable energy and the environment. The training course, organised for the benefit of francophone African experts, will be hosted by ESRIN, the European Space Agency's establishment in Frascati, which is responsible for coordination with the users of data from ESA's remote sensing satellite. Twenty-four experts in the field of remote sensing, selected from 19 francophone countries from northern, western and central Africa, and three regional African centres, will attend the two-week session. The course will focus on remote sensing techniques and data applications, particularly ERS-1 data. The ERS-1 satellite, developed by ESA and launched in 1991 with the European Ariane launcher, carries an advanced radar instrument and is the first in a series of radar remote sensing missions that will ensure availability of data beyond the year 2000. The aim of the training course is to increase the potential of experts using the practical applications of radar remote sensing systems to natural resources, renewable energy and the environment, with particular emphasis on applications to geology and mineral prospecting, oceanography and near- coastal areas, agriculture, forestry and meteorology. The education and practical training programme was developed jointly by the United Nations and ESA. The facilities and the technical support, as well as lecturers and information documents for the training course, will be provided by the Agency. Lecturers at the training course will include high-level experts from other European and African organisations active in remote sensing applications. Funds for the training course are being provided by the United Nations Trust Fund for New and Renewable Sources of Energy; the primary contributor to that Fund is the Government of Italy.
But what if the geologists are wrong and these people are warning of a non-existent danger? Analogies can only push an argument so far (on both sides). Both Melinda's and yours assume the premises used to set up your respective analogies are true and thus the correct conclusion will arise. The important point to note is the different directions both sides come from. Christians believe they know the TRUTH and thus believe they have the right (and duty) to tell the TRUTH to all. Christians can get offended if others do not believe (what is self-evidently to them) the TRUTH. Non-christians do not believe this is the TRUTH and get offended at them because they (christians) claim to know the TRUTH. (BTW this argument goes for anyone, I am not just bagging christians) Neither side can be really reconciled unless one of the parties changes their mind. As Melinda pointed out, there is no point in arguing along these lines because both approach from a different premise. A more useful line of discussion is WHY people believe in particular faiths. Personally, I don't mind what anyone believes as long as they allow me mine and we can all live peacefully.
... And send him a shift key too...
I just got a Quadra 800 8/230 and I've noticed that I can't change the desktop color from the beautiful gray. I thought maybe I should reinstall the OS using the "Install Me First, Macintosh Centris, Quadra..." diskette because the system file on this diskette is more recent than the one on the hard disk. The easy install selects "Macintosh Cnetris System Software". Does anyone know if I should use this or customize and use "System Software for any Macintosh"? Or does it matter? THANKS in advance for any suggestions...
I heard that Eli is selling the team to a group in Cinninati. This would help so that the O's could make some real free agent signings in the offseason. Training Camp reports that everything is pretty positive right now. The backup catcher postion will be a showdown between Tackett and Parent although I would prefer Parent. #1 Draft Pick Jeff Hammonds may be coming up faster in the O's hierarchy of the minors faster than expected. Mike Flanagan is trying for another comeback. Big Ben is being defended by coaches saying that while the homers given up were an awful lot, most came in the beginning of the season and he really improved the second half. This may be Ben's year. I feel that while this may not be Mussina's Cy Young year, he will be able to pitch the entire season without periods of fatigue like last year around August. I really hope Baines can provide the RF support the O's need. Orsulak was decent but I had hoped that Chito Martinez could learn defense better and play like he did in '91. The O's right now don't have many left-handed hitters. Anderson proving last year was no fluke and Cal's return to his averages would be big plusses in a drive for the pennant. The rotation should be Sutcliffe, Mussina, McDonald, Rhodes, ?????. Olson is an interesting case. Will he strike out the side or load the bases and then get three pop outs? You never know. The way I see the AL East this year (with personal biases mixed in) Baltimore New York Toronto Milwaukee Cleveland Boston Detroit (The top 4 are the only true contenders in my mind. One of these 4 will definitely win the division unless it snows in Hell/Maryland :). I feel that this Baltimore's season to finally put everything together.) __________________________________________________________________________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Strictly speaking, you're right - we can't repent _for_ somebody else, for what they've done. I guess I don't think it's out of line to talk about a generalized repentence for our contribution to or participation in "The sins of society" , or for our tacit approval (by our silence) of sinful attitudes or practices....it may be that we're also just plain begging for mercy, hoping God will withhold his hand of judgement on our whole country for the sake of a few, much as Abraham sought to do for the sake of Lot. (Hmmm, the results there were pretty cautionary...) A few times lately when I've observed some either out-and-out sinful activity, or just some self-destructive activity, I've gotten a strong impression that many folks really don't know any better. Christ's pity on the crowds as being "like sheep without a shepherd" rings true to me. If these folks don't have a clue, do I bear _any_ responsibility for my not having communicated a better way? Worse still; have I expressed judgement and disgust at their doings, and thus alienated them from any positive relationship whereby I might pass along anything positive? I _know_ I've got something to repent about on that score. Anyway, it's a real interesting question.
: {much deleted] : : : The fact that this happened while eating two sugar coated cereals made : by Kellog's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to : something in the coating or the cereals. Of the four of us in our : immediate family, Kathryn shows the least signs of the hay fever, running : nose, itchy eyes, etc. but we have a lot of allergies in our family history : including some weird food allergies - nuts, mushrooms. : Many of these cereals are corn-based. After your post I looked in the literature and located two articles that implicated corn (contains tryptophan) and seizures. The idea is that corn in the diet might potentiate an already existing or latent seizure disorder, not cause it. Check to see if the two Kellog cereals are corn based. I'd be interested.
Someone Else, could you please comment on that. I have just bought a Twincom 14.4DFi, which has a Rockwell chipset. It wasn't cheap so I would like to hear of problems I'm likely to run into. Phew, I was lucky! The Twincom internal version has a 550A and one of the Rockwell chips is marked RC144DP. But still I would like to hear more of the above mentioned firmware problems.
I recently purchased a Diamond Stealth 24 Video card and received the wrong drivers. Does anyone know where I can ftp the proper drivers? The dstlth file at cica does not work with this video card. Please respond to doug@sun.sws.uiuc.edu
I agree. So why is Cylink the only (and expensive) game in town? Note: I think Cylink is great, and if my boss would double my salary, I'd buy a bunch of their stuff :). One thing that Clipper offers is interoperability, at a higher degree of security than we currently have in non-proprietary voice encryption systems. This means it will be cheaper than anyone's proprietary scheme, and easier to deploy. This is, of course, either a bug or a feature depending on how you look at it :). Great! Where can I buy it? Another note: If "Clipper" increases the incentive to bring stronger encryption to the mass market, all the better. It's far overpriced at the moment. I don't care where we *need* to get it from, I care where we *can* get it from, and whether it will interoperate with everyone else. You can build them right now as long as you don't want to export (a restriction I firmly oppose). The only thing stopping people from making cheap encryption is greed: they want a lock on the market. Oh, come on. Only if you trust it farther than it deserves. A Clipper phone *IS NOT* a substitute for a Cylink phone, or a STU-III. It's a substitute for the "voice scramblers" advertised in the back of Radio Electronics. I disagree. Modulo ITAR, it's not the government that has sabotaged the market. Can you tell me where exactly we have given up that right?
I strongly disagree that absolute truth would not require interpretation. That's because truth may be absolute, but it may not be obvious. Like so many things, the truth is always subject to misinterpretation. I strongly suspect that we are reaching an impasse here, which is why I deign from commenting much further. Now hold it. I never said that Christians cannot be arrogant. Indeed, as many other Christians on SRC have stressed before, this is a trap that Christians must always be wary about. However, this does not mean that if you believe in the absolutes established by the Bible, you are necessarily being arrogant. A Christian can believe that the Word of God is absolute, but he or she should not expect this to be immediately evident to everyone. Not quite. You say that according to my stance, we cannot *reliably* determine what is true. That is not what I said. I say that as fallible human beings, we cannot discern the truth with 100% certainty. The distinction is subtle yet important. When a scientist performs an experiment, he can claim that his results are reliable, without claiming that absolutely no mistake whatsoever could have been made. In other words, he can admit that he could be mistaken, without sacrificing his convictions. Nobody can establish what absolute truth is with 100% certainty. Throughout the centuries, philosophers have argued about what we can know with complete certainty and what we cannot. Descartes made a step in the right direction when he uttered, "Cogito, ergo sum," yet we have not advanced much beyond that. Do you believe that other people aside from you exist? Do you believe that the computer terminal you are using exists? If so, can you be absolutely certain about that? Are you sure it is not some grand illusion? Of course, you have no such assurance. This does not mean, however, that for all practical purposes, you can be certain that they exist. So it is with Christianity. The most mature Christians I know have deep convictions about absolute morality, yet they acknowledge that there is a non-zero probability that they are wrong. This does not, however, mean that they should (or do) abandon these absolutes. As I said, we can never be absolutely certain that we are correct. This does not mean that we cannot be certain enough, in light of the evidence, to render all doubts unreasonable.
A "fuel injector cleaning" at the dealer is probably little more than them opening your gas tank, dumping in a bottle of fuel injector cleaner, and sending you on your merry way $59 poorer. Go to KMart and buy the cleaner yourself for $1.29. Just because you dealer sez you need it, don't mean it's necessarily so. Be suspicious.
At least we got somebody the Flyers wanted ;-) Is this really true? I have not been keeping up with any news. If it is, what's the deal with Neil Smith? Is he gone, too? -- Keith Keller LET'S GO RANGERS!!!!! LET'S GO QUAKERS!!!!! kkeller@mail.sas.upenn.edu IVY LEAGUE CHAMPS!!!!
% % Request for opinions: % % Which is better - a one-piece Aerostitch or a two-piece Aerostitch? % Like most everyone else, I ended up getting two different sizes for the top and bottom. My top is a 46L and the bottom is a 48L. For the bottom, the waist is far too large, but the thighs fit just right (the 46 had a better waist, but cut off the circulation in my legs, I have large, muscular thighs, and no, I didn't use the thighmaster to get them :-). The jacket fits me ok in the chest, slightly snug at the waist, and too small in the arms. I can't imagine finding a one-piece size that would have fit correctly, as even the 2 piece has it's problems (strange, since my V-Pilot jacket fits great all over, and when I tried the matching pants, they fit like a glove as well). I can only assume the models Aero Design uses to design its suits are in some way different from us real folks. Also, even though it's related to convienience, you look pretty damn wierd walking around with the tops and bottoms while running errands. I've gotten some really suspicious looks, and sweated a lot while in a store wearing the whole suit, since you can't fit the top and bottom in any motorcycle storage device yet devised (except the trunk in my sidecar rig :-). With the two piece, I unzip the pants (I generally leave the two pieces zipped together, primarily because the pants fall down unless I pull the cheesy elastic belt-type band real tight), stuff them in one of my spacious BMW saddlebags (the pants just fit), and run errands just wearing the jacket. Actually, if I know I'll be running errands, I just wear my V-Pilot jacket, but that's just me... As far as crash protection, I'd say that both suits are probably equal. It seems that for weather protection, if anything the 2 piece provides a little more because of the jacket overlapping the pants by 3 inches. The 2 piece is probably a little less comfortable around the waist, just because of the extra layer of stuff, but maybe not. So I'd have to vote for the two piece. Despite the slightly odd fit, I still find the suit the most versatile piece of riding clothing I own. Wouldn't go long distance without it. Ken Wallich <wallich@ncd.com> ken@wallich.com ~ kmw@al.org ~ [...]decwrl!vixie!amber!ken
Try postmaster@norton.com or postmaster@symantec.com --
ddavis@cass.ma02.bull.com (Dave Davis) II. The deuterocanonicals are not in the canon because they are not quoted by the NT authors. That is not quite accurate. Otherwise we would have the book of Enoch in the canon (as Dave noted). One can say that the apocrypha are not quoted by Christ. III. The deuterocanonicals are not in the canon because they teach doctrines contrary to the (uncontroverted) parts of the canon. then I answer: These is a logically invalid *a priori*. Besides, we are talking about OT texts- which in many parts are superceded by the NT (in the Xtian view). Would not this same principle exclude _Ecclesiastes_? This principle cannot be consistently applied. I have to reject your argument here. The Spirit speaks with one voice, and he does not contradict himself. The ultimate test of canonicity is whether the words are inspired by the Spirit, i.e., God-breathed. It is a test which is more guided by faith than by reason or logic. The early church decided that the Apocrypha did not meet this test--even though some books such as The Wisdom of Ben Sirach have their uses. For example, the Lutheran hymn "Now Thank We All Our God" quotes a passage from this book. The deutero-canonical books were added much later in the church's history. They do not have the same spiritual quality as the rest of Scripture. I do not believe the church that added these books was guided by the Spirit in so doing. And that is where this sort of discussion ultimately ends.
I don't know about the specific problem mentioned in your message, but I definitely had SCSI problems between my Q700 and my venerable Jasmine Megadrive 10 cartridge drives. My solution was to get Silverlining. None of the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives; in fact the only loop that worked was the "Macintosh Software" loop (whatever that means).
I'm looking for a used/inexpensive audio mixer. I need at least 4 channels of stereo input and 1 channel of stereo output, but I would prefer 8 or more input channels. Each channel needs to have at least a volume control. I'll consider buying broken equipment. The mixer needs to be fairly small (I haven't got a lot of space for it).
7. Massacre of Jews in WWII: 6.3 million 8. Massacre of other 'inferior races' in WWII: 10 million 9. Communist purges: 20-30 million? [Socialism is more or less a religion] 10. Catholics V Protestants : quite a few I'd imagine 11. Recent goings on in Bombay/Iodia (sp?) area: ?? 12. Disease introduced to Brazilian * oher S.Am. tribes: x million The Desert Brat
To following up my own note: : : : : It looks like everything works as advertised but I am disappointed : : with the speed. I'm using an Intel 400 internal 14.4k modem in the PC : : with Telebit 14.4k on the Unix end, which are currently limited to : : 19.2Kbits by the Unix com link. To get a quantitative comparison, I : : did 'cat file' where "file" is 20 kbyte uncompressed ascii text, and : : it took 75 seconds to scroll through an X window over the modem link, : : 270 chars/sec. Using the identical hardware and Procomm+FW the same : : "cat file' takes 11 seconds, 1820 chars/sec. BTW, I use NCD PC XView : : on my PC at work (HP) every day for the same Unix access from a PC over : : a LAN and like that just fine. The same 'cat file' scrolls by in : : ~2 seconds on the LAN connection. I just tried a few experiments. I cat'd a 20261-byte file (471 lines) under various scenarios: PC-Xview for DOS in a full-screen OS/2 window (1024x768x16): 18 sec Telix (DOS) in an OS/2 window (1024xs768x256): 107 sec! Telix (DOS) is a full-screen OS/2 window (standard VGA): 11 sec Telix (DOS) in a Windows 3.1 window (1024x768x256): 30 sec UW/WIN in a seamless OS/2 window (1024x768x256): gave up after 4 min! UW/WIN in Windows 3.1 (1024x768x256): faster, but gave up after 2 min UW/WIN in a seamless OS/2 window using pg 30 sec, could have been a little faster (I had to keep hitting the space bar) I was using an ATI Wonder XL video card, by the way. So PC-Xview for DOS looks pretty good (and the line-by-line scrolling in OS/2 desktop looks pathetic, although full-page redraws are pretty good). I tried it under PC-Xview using my normal (9x15bold or 10x20) font, and with a very small font, and there was no difference in the times. The modem receive light was on pretty solidly, so it looks like the bottleneck was the 9600-baud modem, not the screen drawing.
The package is called Sun and Sand, it includes: --5 days/ 4 nights(2+2) accommodations in Orlando and Daytona beach; --hotels are selected from major hotel chains and family resorts; --two adults and up to three children; --fully transferable; --expires at 09/93, $20 for extention of one more year; --it needs a 45 days advance reservation (esp. for peak season), the reservation department will offer a coupon book which may give you saving up to $150. --price: I bought it for $199, which is a good deal for peak seasons. For now, I will not turn down any reasonable offers. must sell. It doesn't include transportation. And you have to pay $3/day for hotel tax.
Actually, if I were one of the survivors and wanted to institute a civil rights violation lawsuit against the Treasury Dept., I would claim that the BATF/FBI itself was to blame for any mass hysteria/insanity...
I don't think this is the case, at least not on all jetskis. On my friend's jetski, bars turn left to go left. Anyway, all you're doing there is changing the yaw of the jets, so the relationship between the handlbars and the rear-mounted jets is completely arbitrary (simple linkage could make it work either way). It seems to me that jetskis are even more irrelevant to this discussion than snow skis. But it *has* been an amusing digression. Hey Ed, how do you explain the fact that you pull on a horse's reins left to go left? :-) Or am I confusing two threads here?
Can somebody point out to me where I can find the specs for .GL and .FLI files found on PC's?
You mean they aren't already? Could have fooled me.
Here is a letter I sent to David Skaggs, (Dem, CO). Before anybody says something, yes the letter is a bit "sharp" in tone. I have been writting reasonable and polite letters to him for years, and all I get in return in the HCI party line. Since he already is NRA F rated, I don't think that upsetting him will harm the cause. Sorry if you disagree, but recent events in Texas REALLY have me pissed. ------------------- April 20, 1993 Representative Skaggs, Recently I wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, (BATF), in Texas. In your response you stated that "Events in Texas underscore the need for stricter gun control legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the Branch Davidians. My question to you is, "what grounds would you use to deny them access to firearms?" Best I can tell this statement underscores your apparent total ignorance of the subject, and highlights your personal bias against firearms. I say this because there are only two possible paths of "gun control" which you could have been referencing. Either: 1) You were talking about their access to semi-automatics firearms. In this case I should point out that semi-automatic firearms are legal in most areas of this Country, including Texas and Colorado. In addition the members of the "cult" have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability to purchase these weapons. So under what grounds would you deny them these guns? Their religion? The fact they they live in a large group alone by themselves? Because you consider them to be a cult? Maybe I consider your Church to be a cult! This line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of "thought crimes." You and Pat Robertson should really get along. 2) You were referring to the ALLEGED FULLY automatic weapons possessed by the "cult." Under current US law, FULLY automatic weapons have been covered by some of the strictest gun control laws in this Nation. So if David Koresh illegally possessed them, he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest laws we have. How will more laws help? By the way, it has been reported that David Koresh possessed a Federal Firearms License which would have permitted him to possess FULLY automatic weapons. If true, the 85 people who perished Monday in the fire, died so that the Federal government could collect a couple hundred dollars in taxes on guns David Koresh didn't declare. I have heard claims that they were "stockpiling weapons." Yet considering the number of people in the complex, even 200+ weapons would not have been out of line with gun ownership statistics for all of Texas. What's next? A siege of Dallas/Ft Worth for alleged "stockpiling?" Face it David Skaggs, You have voted for virtually EVERY gun control law that has passed through Congress, yet you claim that you are only for "reasonable" restrictions. Bull****! Handgun Control Inc. is struggling to maintain 250,000 PAID members, while the NRA has just exceeded 3,000,000 members. They are still growing at a rate of 2,000 new members per day. Driving around YOUR district I see NRA stickers every day. In eight plus years of living here I have only seen ONE HCI bumper sticker. When you vote for your "reasonable" gun control laws, are you really representing your district, or are you representing Sarah Bradys'? Thank You, William J. Vojak April 20, 1993 Representative Skaggs, Recently I wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, (BATF), in Texas. In your response you stated that "Events in Texas underscore the need for stricter gun control legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the Branch Davidians. My question to you is, "what grounds would you use to deny them access to firearms?" Best I can tell this statement underscores your apparent total ignorance of the subject, and highlights your personal bias against firearms. I say this because there are only two possible paths of "gun control" which you could have been referencing. Either: 1) You were talking about their access to semi-automatics firearms. In this case I should point out that semi-automatic firearms are legal in most areas of this Country, including Texas and Colorado. In addition the members of the "cult" have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability to purchase these weapons. So under what grounds would you deny them these guns? Their religion? The fact they they live in a large group alone by themselves? Because you consider them to be a cult? Maybe I consider your Church to be a cult! This line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of "thought crimes." You and Pat Robertson should really get along. 2) You were referring to the ALLEGED FULLY automatic weapons possessed by the "cult." Under current US law, FULLY automatic weapons have been covered by some of the strictest gun control laws in this Nation. So if David Koresh illegally possessed them, he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest laws we have. How will more laws help? By the way, it has been reported that David Koresh possessed a Federal Firearms License which would have permitted him to possess FULLY automatic weapons. If true, the 85 people who perished Monday in the fire, died so that the Federal government could collect a couple hundred dollars in taxes on guns David Koresh didn't declare. I have heard claims that they were "stockpiling weapons." Yet considering the number of people in the complex, even 200+ weapons would not have been out of line with gun ownership statistics for all of Texas. What's next? A siege of Dallas/Ft Worth for alleged "stockpiling?" Face it David Skaggs, You have voted for virtually EVERY gun control law that has passed through Congress, yet you claim that you are only for "reasonable" restrictions. Bull****! Handgun Control Inc. is struggling to maintain 250,000 PAID members, while the NRA has just exceeded 3,000,000 members. They are still growing at a rate of 2,000 new members per day. Driving around YOUR district I see NRA stickers every day. In eight plus years of living here I have only seen ONE HCI bumper sticker. When you vote for your "reasonable" gun control laws, are you really representing your district, or are you representing Sarah Bradys'? Thank You, William J. Vojak --------------------------- Bill Vojak vojak@icebucket.stortek.com NRA, ILA, Colorado Firearms Coalition ------------------------------------------------------------ The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER NOT!) The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER BIASED!)
Two thoughts. - I think that psychologically it will be easier for the next generation to accept genetic manipulation. It seems that people frown upon 'messing with Nature', ignoring our eons-old practice of doing just that. Any new human intervention is 'arrogance and hubris' and manipulation we routinely do is 'natural' and certainly 'not a big deal'. - Most interesting human traits will probably be massively polygenetic and be full of trade-offs. In addition, without a positive social environment for the cultivation of genetic gifts, having them won't be the advantage it's made out to be. Some people will certainly pursue it as if it is the Grail, but we know how most of those quests turn out.
Is anyone familiar with Doug Sturm?
John, The problem here is that you have taken one peice of my response, without bothering to connect it with the other parts. I have repeatedly noted that one needs to take the problematic historcity of acts and then examine the work of John Dominic Crossan and Burton Mack. Once you have taken the time to examine recent developments in biblical scholarship, I think you will grasp more clearly what I am saying. Certainly this is an issue as I think the situation in Waco shows most clearly. If all that is required is that people are willing to die for a belief for it to be true, then surely David Koresh is the son of God. No, the spurrious arguement that the resurrection had to be true for people to be willing to die must be put to rest. The other problem is that it is so monologocentric. Even if the resurrection was a big deal (which it doesn't seem to have been for either Q, Thomas, or even John to a certain degree) there are a lot of other things which the Early Christians could have been doing together that would have been worth dying for. It is my belief that even the idea of a mixed race community, which brought down regional/national boundaries in the name of koinonia could have been enough for people to be willing to die. Radical communties do that (e.g. Jonestown, Waco, Warsaw, etc) But my original point was that roman persecution (which is the only persecution we have documented proof of) was not about whether a carpenter came back from the dead. Such a claim was not unique nor particularly abhorent to the roman or greek mind. My point is that avoidance of military and civic duty (i.e. emperor worship) would have been much more problematic -- which has nothing to do with the resurrection at all. When nero used christians as human torches to light up his dinner party it wasn't because the believe in a risen savior, it was because they were supposedly involved in incest and cannablism. The argument that christians were martyred for the resurrection just cannot stand up to critical examination.
Does anyone know what hardware is required and where I could find it for sound recording on the Mac Portable. Thanks
I believe we still remember Masada, where Jews killed themselves rather than being captured by the Romans. While I do not agree with the Davidians, I must admire their willingness to die for what they believed, which Jews have had to do often.
It is called 'The Justice'. We also demand that the x-Soviet Armenian Government admit its responsibility for the Turkish and Kurdish Genocide, render reparations to the Muslim people, and return the land to its rightful owners. The recognition of the Genocide has become an issue which cannot be delayed further, and it is imperative that artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed. Are you the 'truelove' or 'falselove' of 'Arromdian' of the ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangle? "If Turks had behaved like Christians to use force to convert to Islam the nations which they brought under their power, to which no one could have opposed, today there would be no Eastern problem. But Turks did not do so. They obeyed the word of the Koran to permit everybody "to worship in their own way" centuries before Frederick the Great pronounced his famous dictum. Thus, in an age when the Christian Europe itself shed Christian blood and when people in Europe enjoyed inflicting inhuman tortures upon those whose beliefs differed from theirs, the Ottoman Empire became the sole country where the inquisition did not exist, where deaths at the stake were unheard of and where accusations of witchcraft were not made. And the barbarian (!) Turkey was the only country where the Jews persecuted and chased away everywhere by the Christians, could find asylum. These facts demonstrate that Muslim countries provided spiritually far better living conditions than Christian countries."[1] "The Turks, who are a conquering nation, did not Turkify the nations that came under their rule; instead, they respected their religions and traditions. It was a stroke of luck for Romania to live under Turkish rule instead of Russian or Austrian rule. Because otherwise there would not have been a Romanian nation today" (Popescu Ciocanel). "Turks rule over people under their administration only externally, without interfering with their internal structures. On account of this, the autonomy of minorities in Turkey is better and more complete than any in the most advanced European countries."[2] "...human beings hate each other on account of religious differences. This flaw is older than Islam and Christianity. But there has never been any examples of this adjuration in Turkey because Turks never oppress anybody on account of his religion. If enmity on the basis of religion had been such a case of simple contempt among us too, or if it did not keep translating itself into action, many nations in our Europe would probably have considered themselves happy!" (A. de Mortraye).[3] "Turkey never became a scene for religious terror or for the cruelty of the inquisition. On the contrary, it served as an asylum for the unfortunate victims of Christian fanaticism. If you look into history, you will see that in the fifteenth century thousands of Jews who were expelled from Spain and Portugal found such a good asylum in Turkey that their descendants have been living there very calmly all through these approximately three hundred years, and are only forced to defend themselves in some countries against the cruelty of Christians, especially that of the Orthodoxes. No Jew is able to appear in public during Easter celebrations in Athens, even today. In Turkey, however, if the Israelites are insulted by the Greek and Armenian communities, local courts immediately take them under their protection." "In that vast and calm country of the sultan, all religions and nations are living together peacefully. Although the mosque is superior to the church and the synagogue, it does not replace them. Because of this, the Catholic sect is more free in Istanbul and Smyrna compared with Paris and Lyon. In addition to the fact that no law in Turkey prohibits the open-air ceremonies of this sect, neither does any law imprison its cross in the church. While the dead are being taken to the graves, a long line of priests bear processional candles and chant Catholic hymns. When all the priests in all the churches in the Galata and Beyoglu districts go into the streets and form clerical processions during the Eucharist celebrations, chanting hymns and bearing their crosses and religious banners, a detachment of soldiers escorts them which forces even the Turks to stand in respect around the group of priests." (A. Ubicini).[4] [1] Ah. Djevat, "Yabancilara Gore Eski Turkler," 3rd ed. (Istanbul, 1978), pp. 70-71. [2] Ibid., p.91. [3] Ibid., pp. 214-215. [4] Ibid., pp. 215-216. Serdar Argic
# #From the Santa Rosa (Cal.) Press-Democrat, April 15, 1993, p. B2: # # # # Male sex survey: Gay activity low # # # # A new natonal study on male sexual behavior, the most thorough # # examination of American men's sexual practices published since # # the Kinsey report more than four decades ago, shows about 2 # # percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and # # 1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual. # # # # The figures on homosexuality in the study released Wednesday # # by the Alan Guttmacher Institute are significantly lower than # # the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional # # wisdom since it was published in the Kinsey report. # # 1) So what? Homosexuals lie about the 10% number to hide the disproportionate involvement of homosexuals in child molestation. They also lie about "10%" to keep politicians scared. # 2) It will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers # gather in Washington DC. After all if there are only 6million of # us then this is an event unprecidented in history... But many of the people who will be marching aren't homosexuals, but other members of the leftist agenda. # #The article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners. # #The median number of sexual partners for all men 20-39 was 7.3. # # Don't forget that 25% had 20 or more partners.... Not surprising. Remember, that study includes homosexuals as well. # #Compared to the table I have already posted from Masters, Johnson, # #and Kolodny showing male homosexual partners, it is apparent that # #homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general # #male population. # # And what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those # who said they where homosexual? Or is that number to inconvient for # you.... It wasn't published. # #It's a shame that we don't have a breakdown for # #straight men vs. gay/bi men -- that would show even more dramatically # #how much more promiscuous gay/bi men are. # # Fuck off Typical homoseuxal response.
I have one original SAM (Symantec AntiVirus for Macintosh) V3.0 for sale. It comes with three program discs and one user manual. Will work with 800K and 1.4MB disc drives. Selling for $17.90 (make an offer) which includes postage. Respond to:
Check out Image Pals v1.2 from U-Lead (until May, special $99 intro price, 310-523-9393). It has the basic image processing tools for all major formats, does screen grabbing, and allows all your image files to be calalogged into a thumbnail database. It's great!
But only in NY,NJ, Philadelphia, and Chicago. Everywhere else, the only reason SportsChannel was available was for local baseball broadcasts. And local baseball pre-empted the NHL playoffs. Thus far into this playoff season, ESPN/ABC has given me more hockey in 2 days (1 game) than SportsChannel did (0 games). If people want hockey on TV, they should watch hockey on TV. I bet the ratings for hockey on Sunday on ABC went into the toilet. Next week, there will be far fewer ABC affiliates with hockey. Someone in this thread said that he wouldn't watch the games even if they were on TV, and this is a r.s.h. regular contributor! Xenophobes north of border needn't fear the US-Americanization of "our" game, because US-Americans will never figure out how to market hockey here. Support your team; support your game.
> Well, the two nifty letters giving concrete proof that the >Income Tax is voluntary and giving specific procedures for stopping >withholding, et cetera have been out there for a while now. > There has been no refutation to date. Have the nay-sayers >finally given up as defeated? Sure would like to hear there reasons >for disbelief at this point. Probably because you have yet to respond to the refutation I've posted. Teel, it's bad enough you post this bs, it's even worse that you don't even try to defend it when it gets torn to pieces, but then posting that no one's looked at it and gloating when all facts point to the contrary point to a severely deluded mind. What I found interesting about Conklin's letter is the 6 cases he has won against the IRS. Now, assuming that these cases really exist and were one by him (anyone checked?) they may have nothing to do with his major tax claim. The IRS fought one of his deductions. Defending your deductions seems puny when you believe that there is no need to file in the first place!
#Compared to the table I have already posted from Masters, Johnson, #and Kolodny showing male homosexual partners, it is apparent that #homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general #male population. Did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing to admit to being a member sexual minority (homosexuality) are more willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority (highly promiscious)? I didn't think that you did.
I read this morning that Sid Fernandez left last nights' game with stiffness in his shoulder. Does anyone have any information as to the extent of the injury (if indeed there is one), or weather the cold air in Colorado just got his joints a little stiff? Thanks for the help...
If all of these things have been detected in space, has anyone looked into possible problems with the detectors? That is, is there some mechanism (cosmic rays, whatever) that could cause the dector to _think_ it was seeing one of these things?
If a person gives a well-balanced reasoned argument, Tammy, then all are happy to discuss it with him. If he makes astounding claims, which are not backed up with any evidence then he must be expected to substantiate them. If the original author had said that everything was his own opinion and not supportable then people would have simply ignored him. He did not. He claimed many things and his logic was seriously flawed. His argument was for christianity in an effort to try to convince atheists like myself to believe him and his message. I for one will not take things as read. If you told me that pink fluffy elephants did the dance of the sugar plum fairy on the dark side of Jupiter then I would demand evidence! Adda
[and quotes a lot of stuff unnecessarily] Ain't got a pair of fatigues... and I don't blast people wandering aimlessly, I ask them what they're doing there... I only blast people who display obvious violent intent... like black-clad men with weapons climbing thru second-story windows, or people who break down the door instead of knocking. Or people who knock my house down with tanks and set it afire. Sound familiar yet? Riddle me this: Why the hell are the CONVICTED CRIMINALS in Ohio getting the kid glove treatment, and the BD's are burned alive without a trial? Put aside who started the blaze, I still think any decent shyster can make a case for cruel and unusual punishment, playing the sounds of tortured rabbits over the loudspeakers (where's the SPCA in all this?)... Oh, and that's Mister gun-toter SIR to you, bucko. Just because you choose to abandon your rights, leave mine the hell alone, thankyouverymuch.
:|> >wrong about the whole guns-for-protection mindset, it ignores the :|> :|> Why? If you're not a threat, you're not affected at all. :|> : :Aha. That's the part that makes me nervous too. Who gets to decide if :I am a threat? Based on appearance? Would someone feel more threatened : Actions determine whether someone presents a threat... and I don't carry a gun so much for people, cause I tend to fade if there are any about, but due to several encounters with formerly domestic dogs... these critters ain't scared of folks, and can get aggressive. :on staying at and saw someone sitting there cleaning his gun. Softly I backed :away, and hiked another 5 miles to get *out of there*. I'll freely admit it here: :I'm not afraid of guns; I'm afraid of people that bring them into the backcountry. : I'd count that as a fear of guns... somebody having the sense to keep their weapons maintained isn't as likely to present a threat. The Army taught me to clean any weapons DAILY, since they usually need it, regardless of whether they've been used... You'd be amazed how sweaty a holster can get, or how much trail dust will get in it. And I guess you'd be scared of me and my former Explorer Post... seems the advisors were National Guard Special Forces grunts, and considered it heresy to be out in the woods without a weapon... course, usually you wouldn't notice 'em... :) They tended to avoid public scrutiny... :Of course, that may be the way to solve the solitude problem. Just carry a gun :and display it prominently, and one probably won't see most of the other hikers :out there, who will be hiding in the woods. 1/2 :-) : : - Dania My 9mm goes in a hip holster, mixed in with magazine pouches (hold lotsa stuff in them), canteens, knives, compasses, and such... Not so easy to notice, in the off chance I decide to be visible... I prefer not to be, since walking quietly away from active areas increases the number of non-human type critters I see... James
I would doubt that you would be able to use the hard drive. XT drives usually came in MFM or RLL flavors. I bet your 386SX has IDE drives. The two are not compatible on the same controller. However, you might be able to use the drive *with its controller* in your 386SX. You should be able to plug your 360K drive into your existing 386SX controller (I think). You might have to use the floppy controller that was used in the XT.
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary _________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 15, 1993 AMERICAN UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT JOSEPH DUFFEY NAMED TO HEAD USIA, MICA TO CHAIR BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING Washington, D.C. - President Clinton today announced his intention to nominate American University President and former State Department Assistant Secretary Joseph Duffey to be Director of the United States Information Agency. The President also designated Daniel Mica Chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting. "Joe Duffey's expertise in the fields of education, communications and foreign affairs is vast and will serve him well as he takes the helm at USIA and works to promote the ideals of democracy and freedom abroad," the President said. President of American University in Washington, D.C. since 1991, Duffey previously served nine years as Chancellor and President of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. In 1977 he served as Assistant Secretary of State, Education and Cultural Affairs in the State Department. Duffey served as Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities under both Presidents Carter and Reagan. In 1978 and 1980, Duffey served as a United States delegate to the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. In 1991, Duffey served as joint head of the U.S. Delegation observing national elections in Ethiopia. USIA, which celebrates its 40th anniversary this year, is an independent foreign affairs agency within the executive branch that explains and supports U.S. foreign policy and national security interests abroad through a wide range of information programs. Among the agency's programs are the Fulbright academic program, Voice of America, the Worldnet satellite television system and a network of overseas libraries and cultural centers. The agency has more than 210 posts in more than 140 countries. (more) Press Release pg. 2 Mica becomes Chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting after serving as a member of the board since 1991. "Dan Mica has done an excellent job on the Board of International Broadcasting and I expect he will continue as chairman to promote the cause of democracy abroad," the President said. Biographical sketches of the appointees follow: Joseph Duffey has served as President of American University since 1991. Prior to his tenure at American, Duffey served as Chancellor and President of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst (1982 - 91) and as a Guest Scholar at the Brookings Institution (1982). He served as Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities from 1977 - 82 and as Assistant Secretary of State, Education and Cultural Affairs with the Department of State in 1977. Duffey holds 14 honorary degrees from American colleges and universities. In 1980 he was named Commander of the Order of the Crown by the King of Belgium and he has been a member of the Council of Foreign Relations since 1979. Duffey received a BA from Marshall University in 1954, a BD from the Andover Newton Theological School in 1958, a STM from Yale University in 1963 and a Ph.D. from the Harvard Seminary Foundation in 1969. Duffey is a member of the National Business- Higher Education Forum and a founder and co-chairman of the Western Massachusetts Economic Development Conference. Duffey is married to Anne Wexler and has four sons. Daniel Mica is a former U.S. Representative from the 14th District of Florida and has served on the Board of International Broadcasting since 1991. During his tenure in Congress from 1979 - 89 he served on the House Committee on Foreign Relations and was appointed by President Reagan as the Congressional Representative to the United Nations.
I'm looking for any leads to the source of a good Windows Meta File converter or interpreter. I need this for use outside the Windows environment. PD sources preferred, but not a requirement. Please reply to the address below.
In the South Lebanon area, only Israeli (and SLA) and Lebanese troops are present. Syrian troops are deployed north of the Awali river. Between the Awali river and the "Security Zone" only Lebanese troops are stationed. That is your opinion and the opinion of the Israeli government. I agree peace guarantees would be better for all, but I am addressing the problem as it stands now. Hopefully a comprehensive peace settlement will be concluded soon, and will include security guarantees for both sides. My proposal was aimed at decreasing the casualties in the interim period. In my opinion, if Israel withdraws unilaterally it would still be better off than staying. The Israeli gov't obviously agrees with you and is not willing to do such a move. I hope to be be able to change your opinion and theirs, that's why I post to tpm. As I explained, I contend that if Israel does withdraw unilaterally I believe no attacks would ensue against northern Israel. I also explained why I believe that to be the case. My suggestion is aimed at reducing the level of tension and casualties on all sides. It is unfortunate that Israel does not agree with my opinion. That is too bad. Because Israel is not occupying the "Security Zone" free of charge. It is paying the price for that. Once Israel withdraws it may have lost a bargaining chip at the negociating table but it would save some soldiers' lives, that is my contention. If Lebanon were willing to agree to That is completely untrue. Hizbollah is now a minor force in Lebanese politics. The real heavy weights are Syria's allies. The gov't is supported by Syria. The Lebanese Army is over 30,000 troops and unified like never before. Hizbollah can have no moral justification in attacking Israel proper, especially after Israeli withdrawal. That would draw the ire of the Lebanese the Syrian and the Israeli gov'ts. If Israel does withdraw and such an act (Hizbolllah attacking Israel) would be akin to political and moral suicide. Basil
I can only comment on thermal recalibration in general. Some new drives perform it in order to increase overall integrity of data writes. Basically, the firmware instructs the actuator to perform a test to see if the data tracks are within a certain physical tolerance, since when the media heats up or cools down, *some* track drift is inevitable, and the drive has to monitor it. This becomes especially critical at very high recording densities, and so was used primarily on very large-capacity mechanisms, but it seems to be finding its way into more smaller drives as a way of boosting the drive's long-term reliability and MTBF ratings. I first became aware of thermal recalibration when it was pointed out that the technique conflicts with prolonged write times when digitizing, say, audio or video to hard disk. Some manufacturers explicitly state that drives with thermal recalibration are NOT to be used for applications that have prolonged disk writes. Hope this helps.
Depends on in what context you want it commented on. It handles great compared to some bikes, not so good compared to others. What would you like it compared to? (Yes, I've put a few miles on one, although I've never owned one). Randy Davis Email: randy@megatek.com ZX-11 #00072 Pilot {uunet!ucsd}!megatek!randy DoD #0013
If Comet Shoemaker-Levy 1993e is in Jovian orbit, and if the comet is still hanging around when Galileo arrives, then I'm sure it will be added to the list of targets. We'll have by then over two years of Earth-based observations to help narrow down the positions of the pieces of the comet. It probably won't be too much different than what was done with Gaspra. Galileo did not image Toutatis. That came from Earth-based radar.
Nutrasweet is a synthetic sweetener a couple thousand times sweeter than sugar. Some people are concerned about the chemicals that the body produces when it degrades nutrasweet. It is thought to form formaldehyde and known to for methanol in the degredation pathway that the body uses to eliminate substances. The real issue is whether the levels of methanol and formaldehyde produced are high enough to cause significant damage, as both are toxic to living cells. All I can say is that I will not consume it. Phenylalanine is nothing for you to worry about. It is an amino acid, and everyone uses small quantities of it for protein synthesis in the body. Some people have a disease known as phenylketoneurea, and they are missing the enzyme necessary to degrade this compound and eliminate it from the body. For them, it will accumulate in the body, and in high levels this is toxic to growing nerve cells. Therefore, it is Only a major problem in young children (until around age 10 or so) or women who are pregnant and have this disorder. It used to be a leading cause of brain damage in infants, but now it can be easily detected at birth, and then one must simply avoid comsumption of phenylalanine as a child, or when pregnant.
As John Gilmore has pointed out repeatedly, if you produce the infrastructure that would permit a police state to function, all that is required to suddenly find yourself living in one is a change of attitude on the part of the government. Our constitution was built by men who had to risk their lives to ensure freedom in our country. They designed the system to make it difficult for tyranny to arise. For instance, one of the reasons the fourth amendment was put there was to make it harder for the government to try to make smuggling a crime. Think I jest? John Hancock made all his money smuggling rum, which is, after all, a drug. Think about it. The government has everyones keys in escrow, and the FBI gets their pet "wiretap without leaving the office" scheme. There is a coup, which happens every day all around the world. Within hours, everyone in the country who might oppose the tyrants is being monitored more closely than ever before possible. Without the tools being in place, a tyranny cannot stand. With tools like this in place, a tyrannical dictatorship could actually be successfully imposed. Why give the government tools with which to enslave you? Maybe you can trust Bill Clinton, but are you willing to tell me that you can trust EVERY government that will ever arise in the U.S. hereafter? I am not willing to make that leap of faith. I'm a political dissident. As such, I am acutely aware of what happens to political dissidents in most of the world. In most of the world, I could be killed for my beliefs. Call Amnesty International some time to find out what happens to dissidents in most of the world. All that seperates the U.S. from most of those places is a thin piece of parchment in the National Archives thats being constantly more and more eroded by such farces as the war on drugs. Coups have happened in countries that have had stable democracies for over a hundred years. Governments throughout history have fallen. No government has lasted for more than a few hundred years. Often, they are replaced by dictatorships. Do you really believe so intensely that it could never ever ever happen here that you are willing to bet your own life and the lives of your children and other loved ones on it? If we construct the tools with which tyranny could be enforced, we make it orders of magnitude more likely that it could happen, because if it happened with the tools already in place it could actually stick. Naive fools such as our leadership believe they can protect us where hundreds that have gone before have failed. Thriving democracies led by men far more skillfull than Bill Clinton have fallen to dictatorship. Rome had a thriving republic run by exquisitely skilled men before they became a tyranny. I, for one, am unwilling to trust that it could never happen here. Only hubris would allow us to believe we are immune to what has happened elsewhere. -- Perry Metzger pmetzger@shearson.com
... ... Some other owners on the ford-probe@world.std.com mailing list have commented about this problem, but I haven't seen it happen on my 3 month old '93 Probe GT. I think this may be something that Ford has corrected since the initial batch of cars. Also, someone said that Ford has issued a service bulletin to inform dealers about how to correct this problem, so you may be able to get your dealer to fix it. Haven't seen any of these problems, nor have I seen these mentioned on the mailing list, so these might just be having bad luck with these. Definitely! No problems like these either. I haven't been able to find any obvious places where they screwed up. Hmmm! I got two keys with my car. Something tells me you got stiffed by your dealer on this. (Actually, if you count the "credit card" key that came in the owner's binder, I got 3 keys, but since the credit card key doesn't have any teeth cut in it yet, I guess I won't count it. :-)) The latter is probably because of the air bag. It's pretty much takes up all the space where you'd expect to find the horn. Speaking of the horn, I was surprised to find that the Probe comes with one of those nice 'merican sounding horns instead of the Japanese sounding kind. The previous Probes had Japanese horns. Yeah, not very badly, but enough to be annoying sometimes. I agree strongly with all of the above, especially about the engine. The interior is very, very nice too. Very pleasing to the eye, and ergonomically sound. ... Yes, this car's stiff suspension isn't for everyone. I personally like it, but if you find it a little harsh but otherwise like the car, I'd strongly suggest looking into the MX-6. The problem with the back seat is that there's no leg room. Plenty of head room, though. Shorter people fit back there without any complaints, so long as the seat they are sitting behind is pulled forward a bit to give them a place to put their feet. The power moonroof can greatly improve the ventilation throughout the car. :-) I really enjoy the moonroof, by the way, but then I've always been a sucker for open air driving. No leakage problems or anything like that...yet! I haven't heard about this one. I know that some of the very early Probes ('89 and maybe '90) had problems with prematurely rusting mufflers (which Ford will replace at no charge), but I haven't heard about anything like this concerning the '93 Probes. I haven't had any real trouble with this car outside of a CV joint boot that was leaking, but the dealer took care of that promptly, and even gave me a free rental car for the day and a half that I was without my car. I was quite happy with the way they handled...especially considering that I was expecting the worst from them! From what I've heard, it sounds like Ford/Mazda had some QC problems with the Probe (and probably MX-6) when they first went into production, but I think these problems have mostly been corrected at this point. That's almost always to be expected with a completely new car like this, though. Hope this helps, -chuck-
Hello, I am about to embark on a bible study on ACTS. I have online bible software with me. I would like to know the the background of the authors of its various topics articles and about the author of the People's New Testament. I need to know how realible is the articles in the Online Bible software. Specifically (for your convenience) I want to know about the : 1. Darby Translation ( I have never heard of this one) 2. Young's Literal Translation (I have also never heard of) 3. The realiability of the Hebrew/Greek Lexicon 4. The authors (from which denomination etc) of the articles in the TOPICS modules. 5. The realiability of the Treasury of Scripture Knowlege ( as I have never heard of too) 6. Who are the commentators, Scofield and B.W. Johnson who wrote the Scofield Reference Bible and the People's New Testament respectively 7. The realiability of the Strong numbers. I will be most happy to receive a reply of any of you who knows about the above. Also, please 'qualify' yourself so that I may know that I am not receiving a 'rubbish' letter. I just want to make sure. Wilfred Ling
Why didn't you create 8 grey-level images, and display them for 1,2,4,8,16,32,64,128... time slices? This requires the same total exposure time, and the same precision in timing, but drastically reduces the image-preparation time, no?
Okay, I'll bite. I should probably leave this alone, but what the heck... But didn't he credit the actual flag design to a party member - some dentist or other? I believe he gives such credit in Mein Kampf. Well, I'm no expert, but all of the histories of Nazi Germany assert this. They make reference to several scandals that occurred long before "the night of the long knives". The impression that I got was that homosexuality in portions of the SA was common knowledge. Also, a book (by a homosexual author whose name escapes me at the moment) called "Homosexuals in History" asserts that Roehm and Heines were homosexuals, as well as others in Roehm's SA circle. Well, you're the one who is in Germany. If you don't believe the history books, look up the primary sources yourself. Those of us outside of Germany do not have access to these. You do. It seems to me that there were plenty of documented instances - several scandals, the fact that on the "knight of the long knives" several SA members (including Heines) were found sleeping together, etc. Also I believe some people were complaining about the SA's homosexual activities (seducing young boys, etc). The histories that I've read make a very convincing case. None of this sounds like urban legend to me. I know next to nothing about Irving and nothing about Funk. What precisely do you know, that would contradict all of the other history books that I have read concerning the existence of homosexual Nazis? Are you trying to say that all historians are taking part in an anti-homosexual smear? What about homosexual writers who agree with the official history? Don't you think they would have found out the truth by now if Roehm and Heines were not homosexuals? I would think they would want to disassociate homosexuality from Nazism. No one should use any connection between the two to bash homosexuals in any case. If you are going to challenge *all* historians on this point (not just Irving), then the burden of proof is on you. Track down the references. Find out where the stories originate from. Again, you are the one in Germany, close to archival material - most people on the net are not. Eh? What is your agenda here? To prove that the Nazis were heterosexuals, so that you can bash heterosexuals? Does it bother you that some of the Nazis might have been homosexuals? Does this make all homosexuals bad if this is true? Of course not. And what about bisexuals? Are they half-Nazis? I don't know why it would be so difficult to believe that some Nazis were homosexuals. The German officer corps before WW1, for instance, was notorious for its homosexuality. There were numerous scandals which rocked the German govt. during the late 19th and early 20th century. Many of the Kaiser's friends were prosecuted - the Kaiser was no homosexual, but the Germany army had a long tradition of tolerating homosexuality, going far back into Prussian history - back to Frederick the Great at least, who was himself a homosexual. Roehm was a product of this Prussian officer tradition, and the old German army (like the English public school system), being a well known center of homosexuality, would have been quite willing to overlook Roehm's homosexuality. In addition, some Nazis complained of homosexuality in the Hitler Youth. The Hitler Youth swallowed up all pre-Nazi youth groups, and some of the various pre-war Vandervogel, Bund, and Volkish youth groups were known to promote homoerotic ideals and friendship, and in many cases, homosexuality itself. So it seems to me not unlikely that there were plenty of homosexual Nazis, regardless of the official Nazi dogmas concerning the "evils" of homosexuality. Why should this suprise anyone? Homosexuality has always existed, in all societies - it would be most unusual if the Nazis were an exception. No, I don't have any sources for you, as I think the only kind of proof you will accept would be citations from archival material, and I do not have access to these. Nor do I intend to reread every book on the Nazis and on modern homosexuality that I have ever read - I don't have the time. Nothing is stopping you, however, from chasing down those sources. Until you prove otherwise, though, I will stick with the established histories.
Please satisfy my curiosity. I'm interested in finding out who is using the e-mail system. Please do not flood me with mail after April 21st. Thanks! Maria Alice Ruth mao111@psuvm.bitnet or @psuvm.psu.edu 1. Are you male or female? 2. How long have you been using the e-mail system? 3. How do you have access (at work, at school, etc)? 4. Who taught you how to use the system? Is that person male or female? 5. Have you helped anyone to learn the system? Was that person(s) male or female? 6. Which net did you find my questions on? 7. Which other nets are you interested in?
Correction: |The story I related is one of the seven apparitions |approved by our Church as worthy of belief. It happened |in La Salle, France. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ That should be La Salette, France, 1846. I must admit, geography is not my forte. |[...] |Once again, the Lamb succeeds.
Does anyone out there have any info on the up and coming fall comdex '93? I was asked by one of my peers to get any info that might be available. Or, could anyone point me in the right direction? Any help would be appreciated.
Experimental Lyme Disease in Dogs Produces Arthritis and Persistant Infection, The Journal of Infectious Diseases, March 1993, 167:651-664
This can be caused by two one of two things. The first and easiest to fix is interference from something around the monitor, such as another monitor or other electrical device. Try moving the system to another location to fix that problem. Second, because of the scan rate of the monitor, it tends to synchronize with room lights and can cause the interference you are seeing. Try turning off all lights in the room(s) around the system and see if that helps. If not, try moving the system somewhere else. A third solution would be to get a 14" Apple Color Display - It should not have the same problem the 12" Color is more suceptible to. You can try calling Apple's new support number (in the U.S.) at 1-800-SOS-APPLE. This number is for ANYONE who has questions regarding Macintosh setup and compatibility and just went into effect for this extended support on Monday, April 5, 1993. Good luck -
I need information on the Display PostScript strokeadjust feature. This feature adjusts the endpoints of lines so that the displayed line looks better on low resolution devices. The PostScript literature explains the process to some extent. They also give an example of how to "emulate" strokeadjust in PostScript environments where it is absent. The suggested emulation is to modify the coordinates of the endpoints of a line using the following formula for each coordinate: new_coord = (round (old_coord - 0.25)) + 0.25 Doing this we end up with all coordinates ending in ".25". From reading I thought that what they might actually do is: new_coord = ((trunc (old_coord * 2)) / 2) + 0.25 This results in all the coordinates ending in either "0.25" or "0.75" whichever is closer. By doing some actual comparisons with Display PostScript, I find that neither of these is what DPS really uses. Since I like how the DPS result looks better than how my stuff looks, I'd like to know if anyone who knows how DPS does it is willing/able to tell me. Thanks,
Dear Netters: I am looking to buy a used Eagle Talon '91 or '91 TSi AWD. Question is that the '91 TSi AWD was mentioned in the April Consumer Reports to a car to avoid! In particular, the manual transmission, electrical system, and brakes were below par (in both models). A friend of mine ownes a '90 TSi AWD and he has had 2 brake jobs (pads), one stuck valve, and some clutch/transmission problem, something about sticking/grinding into second gear. This doesn't seem too bad if one "beats" on his car. I am willing to suffer reliability--for speed and looks. Seems you have to pay big buck if you want all three. Anyway can anyone please let me know how you like your Talon, and any problems you may have had, and if the repairs are worth it. Thanks for any responses!
Just a quick comment. Backup lights mounted on the side would actually be *extremely* useful for people backing out of parking stalls... Regards, Charles
It's not a cycle. Free helium will escape from the atmosphere due to its high velocity. It won't be practical to recover it. It has to be mined. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Of course a run scored is just as important as a run prevented. Just as a penny saved is a penny earned. Enough with the cliches. My point is that IF the Braves starters are able to live up to their potential, they won't need much offensive support. I realize this is a BIG IF. This staff leaves the '92 BoSox in the dust. There is no legitimate comparison. Two Cy Young winners, and three other pitchers that most any team in the league would kill to have as their first or second starter. It seems to me that when quality pitchers take the mound, the other teams score less runs. The team that scores the most runs wins. This puts the team with the better pitching at the advantage (providing they can stop the opposing team from scoring runs). A low scoring game would clearly benefit the Braves. They should have many low scoring games due to their excellent pitching and below average hitting. On the flip side, if you had a starting lineup of great offensive players, I would be arguing that this team would not need great pitchers. They would have an advantage because they could simply outscore their opponent. The name of the games is to win. Even Ray Knight knows that you do this by putting more runs up on the scoreboard. All I'm trying to say is that if you assemble the quality pitchers like the Braves have, the offense doesn't need to be as strong.
We are not at the end of the Space Age, but only at the end of Its beginning. That space exploration is no longer a driver for technical innovation, or a focus of American cultural attention is certainly debatable; however, technical developments in other quarters will always be examined for possible applications in the space area and we can look forward to many innovations that might enhance the capabilities and lower the cost of future space operations. The Dream is Alive and Well.
Here is another way of looking at it. When we die we are released from the arc of time, and able to comprehend our lives in toto. To visit each moment in time sequentially or all at once, but not able to alter the actions thoughts or feelings we had/have/will have in this life. From that perspective, I posit that all will have direct knowledge of God, and be able to recognize at each moment of time wether we were doing what we ought. That the experience of having lived a life far from God will be an eternal torment. That having lived a life of grace, will be an eternal joy. That the resurrection of the body comes not from any physical reconstitution of our present forms, but knowledge of our present forms by our fully cognizant souls. As an Aside: If we were to be restricted for all time to our present form, would you opt for immortality? James Sledd
That's absurd! That statement must therefore say that any argument in favor of seatbelts or airbags is an argument against automobiles. Any argument for lifeguards is an argument against swimming. It says that any agrgument in favor of safety precautions is an argument for banning the activity to which the precautions apply. Extrapolating to that degree is ridiculous, there wouldn't be any normal human activity left to do; therefore it is a non-seqitur. Also, even though most people do not ride motorcycles, they do boat, sail, jetski, climb, ski, fly parachute, hang-glide, glide, bungee-jump, bike, skate, rollerblade, skateboard, play rugby (ouch), mow the lawn, rewire the basement, operate heavy machinery, and do a host of other 'dangerous' things that would all be as valid as motorcycling as activities to ban. Your little homily applies to all those things, and the general public buying into banning motorcycles without realizing that their activity would be next is unlikely.
You can add sysedit (& regedit) to a program group... they are Windows programs. Is it possible to get it to load other *.ini files ????
And anybody who can get the keys from the escrow company. This is a database that's going to take plenty of updating - they think they can keep it secure? Please... and that's just primary, not secondary sources, such as police using the key under a warrant. Would anyone be surprised if they just "neglected" to erase the key if it turned out they couldn't nail you on anything?
Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't this irrelevant? Either the data shows something, or it doesn't. Regardless of what other studies show. Admit it. What you SHOWED to us doesn't prove that gay men are more likely to be molesters. Brian
Obviously, it is ultimately the teams choice...the NHL would obviously prefer not to annoy the European hockey federations, but the NHL right now cannot force NHL teams to free their players...the Whalers probably did it this way so as to not annoy their farm team affiliate.
Subject says it all. Please email soon. skcgoh@tartarus.uwa.edu.au
Source: "Men Are Like That" by Leonard Ramsden Hartill. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis (1926). (305 pages). (Memoirs of an Armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 193. "Their [Muslim] villages were destroyed and they themselves were slain or driven out of the country." p. 218. "We Armenians did not spare the Tartars. If persisted in, the slaughtering of prisoners, the looting, and the rape and massacre of the helpless become commonplace actions expected and accepted as a matter of course. I have been on the scenes of massacres where the dead lay on the ground, in numbers, like the fallen leaves in a forest. They had been as helpless and as defenseless as sheep. They had not died as soldiers die in the heat of battle, fired with ardor and courage, with weapons in their hands, and exchanging blow for blow. They had died as the helpless must, with their hearts and brains bursting with horror worse than death itself." Serdar Argic
From article <1993Apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu>, by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu: Only irrational fools such as yourself are set against RKBA. There are *plenty* of people who support it. The government will be overthrown *long* before that happens. A *huge* millitia composed of all available men and women who care about their country will defeat the forces of the evil Klintonistas. The people *will* prevail! Oh, so you think armed citizens alone can't overthrow the government? Consider this: do you think *all* law enforcement officials and members of the Armed Forces will turn against the people that they are entrusted to serve? Not hardly. You can count on a lot of people in the Army, Marines, Air Force, Navy, National Guard, police officers, and so on joining in the cause to defend the liberties and freedoms of American citizens. COUNT ON IT! THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT BE ABLE TO DISARM EVERYONE WITHOUT STARTING A CIVIL WAR! Wrong again. People will just hide their guns so these "officers" (more like jack-booted stormtroopers) will not be able to find them. They will unless they are idiots. They will realize that if they don't then they will be *next* including you. Believe me if what you describe happens they will be coming for *more* than guns. Disarming citizens would require that everyone's cherished freedoms and liberties be suspended temporarily. More likely, they'd never be restored unless the *people* do something about it. Scott Kennedy, Brewer and Patriot
Avery was the #2 overall pick by the Braves, behind Mark Lewis (I think) in 1988. John Smoltz came over to the Braves from the Tigers, but was developed by the Braves. Jeff Blauser isn't a bad player. -- Dale J. Stephenson |*| (steph@cs.uiuc.edu) |*| Baseball fanatic
Back to the F1 stuff for a second, note that the `auto' tranny in F1 _STILL_ shifts at the driver's command, not some preselected schedule. The driver still controls the shifting, not the transmission. ^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ I have yet to see a torque multiplier installed on a production automobile. Such systems do exist, but none are presently installed in production autos that I am aware of. These are commonly called viscous drive CVTs or fluidic amplifiers. What the convertor _does_ allow is for the engine to be closer to its torque peak during the launch before a clutched car can fully engage it's driveline. Chevy proved it many years ago with the '70 Camaro (ETs and terminal 1/4 mile times were close enough tpo be identical for 4 speed and auto cars). Note that this is also the major reason that an auto car can get away with fewer gears than a manual, the slip in the convertor makes up for the fewer ratios (and before everyone starts yelling about the proposed 5 sspeed autos soon to be out, note that some manufacturers are using 6 speed manulas now). Correct.
[Pitt vs. Penn State controversy deleted] No. It wouldn't be sufficient cause to bitch to the system operator if this was just some guy saying that atheists are going to hell. The point was that recently many messages were posted from that address. Each of these messages was posted to a different newsgroup, with the apparent intent of provoking the readers of that particular group. This, along with the fact that these posts were written in all-caps, makes these posts suspect. Whoever is using this account is using it irresponsibly. If it is the intended user, they should consider appropriate action. If it is someone else-- which seems a possibility, then this is also reason to report it. We get many posts in the flavor of the one that started this thread. It is only because I have seen posts on other groups by this user that I am considering action.
I only want to say that I agree with Noam on this point and I hope that all sides stop targeting civilians.
You can't make a Citizens arrest on anything but a felony. .
Not to mention my friend's '54 Citroen Traction Avant with the light switch and dimmer integrated in a single stalk off the steering column! Those dumb French were apparently copying the Japanese before the Germans! :^)
As I understand it, THe difference between 3D Studio 2.00 and 2.01 is mainly in the IPAS interface, along with a few small bug fixes. The IPAS code runs a lot faster in the newest version.
One "t" in "Eddie Mathews"! Because a small advantage in fielding ability comes nowhere near making up for the large difference in hitting. Their average seasons, using their combined average 656 (AB + BB) per 162 games: Years AB H R 2B 3B HR RBI TB BB AVG OBP SLG OPS Santo 14.10 577 160 81 26 5 24 94 268 79 .277 .366 .464 .830 Robinson 17.55 607 162 70 27 4 15 77 243 49 .267 .325 .401 .726 Fielding, we have, per 162 games at third, Years P A DP E PCT Santo 13.15 149 348 30 24 .954 Robinson 17.72 152 350 35 15 .971 Even if Robinson's extra 3 putouts, 2 assists, and 5 DPs are taken to mean he was responsible for 10 more outs in the field, that doesn't make up for the extra 28 outs he made at the plate, not to mention the fewer total bases. The difference of .104 in OPS should be decreased by about .025 to account for Wrigley, but a .079 difference is still considerable. The Thorn & Palmer ratings are Adjusted Adjusted Stolen Fielding Total Production Batting Runs Base Runs Runs Rating Santo 123 284 -14 137 41.7 Robinson 105 52 -5 151 19.8 (26.3) Usual disclaimers about T&P's FR apply, but they really shouldn't be way off the mark in this comparison. At least it's better than fielding percentage: Carney Lansford has a .966 , 10th best all-time, but -225 FR, dead last of all time. Also, since this total rating compares players to league average instead of replacement level, Robinson should be awarded an extra 6.5 or so for playing 653 more games. He had a great career, but I would prefer Santo's plus 4 years of a replacement level 3Bman. But I would knock Traynor off the list and replace him by Stan Hack. That's a similar story, Hack's far better hitting outweighs Traynor's superior fielding. Graig Nettles and Buddy Bell would also be better choices (IMHO of course, though some recent net discussion supports this point of view.) Shouldn't that be right field?
Another objection occurred to me. There was a comment about how supposedly there would only be one decode box, operated by the FBI. This is flat ridiculous, and I don't believe it for a millisecond. Even *if* they in fact only build one (or two or some other small number) of these, that won't stop others from building one. Make it work like two Clipper-chip phones, one listening to each side of the recorded conversation. I'll have to have another look at the specs posted so far, but offhand I didn't see anything that would preclude this sort of thing.....
I own a Mac IIsi and am considering upgrades (cards, hard drive, etc). Can you tell me what the power limitations are for 1) the PDS slot and 2) the hard drive power feed. Secondly, Can you tell me if there is a separate limit for each, or if instead, there is a single limit for both combined?
: In my mind, to say that science has its basis in values is a bit of a : reach. Science has its basis in observable fact. I'd say that what one chooses to observe and how the observation is interpreted and what significance it's given depends a great deal on the values of the observer. Science is a human activity and as such, is subject to the same potential for distortion as any other human activity. The myth that scientists are above moral influence or ethical concern, that their knowledge can be abstacted whole and pure from nature untainted by the biases of the scientist, is nonsense. Bill : If one is to argue for objective values (in a moral sense) then one must : first start by demonstrating that morality itself is objective. Considering : the meaning of the word "objective" I doubt that this will ever happen. : So, back to the original question: : And objective morality is.....? This may be an unfortunate choice of words, almost self-contradictory. Objective in the sense used here means something immutable and absolute while morality describes the behavior of some group of people. The first term is all inclusive, the second is specific. The concept supposedly described may have meaning however. If there is a God as described by the Christians (for instance), then He has existence apart from and independent of humankind; His existence is outside of our frame of reference (reality). If this being declares a thing to be so, it is -necessarily- so since He has defined Himself as omnipotent and, if His claims are to be believed, He is at least omnipotent relative to us. God is intrinsically self-defined and all reality is whatever He says it is - in an objective sense. If God determines a standard of conduct, that standard is objective. If human beings are held accountable for their conformance to that standard while permitted to ignore it, they substitute a relative morality or mode of conduct, giving the term morality a nebulous, meaningless sense that can be argued about by those pretending to misunderstand. The standard is objective and the conduct required to meet that standard is therefore objectively determined. Just because it is convenient to pretend that the term morality is infinitely malleable, doesn't mean that the objective standard itself doesn't exist. Morality has come to mean little more than a cultural norm, or the preferred conduct of "decent" people, making it seem subjective, but it is derived from an absolute, objective, standard. Ironically, this objective standard is in perfect accord with our true nature (according to Christianity at least), yet is condemned as being contrary to human nre, oppressive and severe. This may be due as
VHS movie for sale Kevin Costner Dances withs Wolves Just open and was used once, $12.00 or best offer, buyer will have to pay shipping. ($1.00 for shipping) Let me know if you are interested, and send your offer to this e-mail address. Koutd@hirama.hiram.edu thanks,
My sunroof leaks. I've always thought those things were a royal pain. Can anyone provide any insight ? I know the seal isn't great. Maybe I could weld the stupid thing shut.
What files do I need to download for GhostScript 2.5.2? I have never used GhostScript before, so I don't have any files for it. What I *do* have is gs252win.zip, which I downloaded from Cica. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to work on it's own, but needs some more files that I don't have. I want to run GhostScript both in Windows 3.1 and in MS-DOS on a 386 PC (I understand there's versions for both environments). What are all the files I need to download and where can I get them? Any info would be appeciated. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Steve W Brewer rewerB W evetS cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu ude.ellivsiuol.xvyklu@504832lc
When were you in Britain?, my information is different. From Miranda Castro, _The Complete Homeopathy Handbook_, ISBN 0-312-06320-2, oringinally published in Britain in 1990.
Seems that the Mile-Long Billboard and any other inflateble space object/station or what ever have the same problems. (other than being a little bit different than the "normal" space ideas, such as trusses and shuttles) But also dag and such.. Why not combine the discussion of how and fesibility to the same topic? I personnelly liek the idea of a billboard in space. But problem. How do you service it? fly a shuttle/DC-1 to near it and then dismount and "fly" to it? Or what?? or havign a special docking section for shuttle/DC-1 docking? Also what if the billboard springs a leak? Self sealing and such?? Just thinking (okay rambling).. Also why must the now inflated billboard, not be covered in the inside by a harder substance (such as a polymer or other agent) and then the now "hard" billboard would be a now giant docking structure/space dock/station??
[stuff deleted] My company maintains a 20,000+ mailing list which is regularly rented for one time use by the major software companies. The method you are using to "seed" your junk mail, isn't really effective. Bulk mailers regulary either send their databases to be "cleaned" by the NCOA, which if you've moved recently, will revert back to the original "xxx Cool", and in large mailings, there will likely be a dupe of you, and they'll pick the first, and use the others for future mailings. BTW, our list is currently one of the hottest lists for actual buyers of a MS Windows utility product in the $100 range, and is available through Direct Media in CT., at $0.10 per name. Please let your direct mail marketing rep. know about this.. Thanks.
Mark Kromer, on the Thu, 15 Apr 1993 00:42:46 GMT wibbled: : >Does the "amount of exhaust allowed to leave the engine through the : >exhaust pipe" make that much of a difference? the amount of air/fuel : >mixture that a cylender sucks in (tries to suck in) depends on the : >speed of the piston when it goes down. : ...and the pressure in the cylinder at the end of the exhaust stroke. : With a poor exhaust system, this pressure may be above atmospheric. : With a pipe that scavenges well this may be substantially below : atmospheric. This effect will vary with rpm depending on the tune of : the pipe; some pipes combined with large valve overlap can actually : reverse the intake flow and blow mixture out of the carb when outside : the pipes effective rev range. : >Now, my question is which one provides more resistence as far as the : >engine is conserned: : >) resistance that the exhaust provides : >) or the resistance that results from the bike trying to push itself and : > the rider : Two completely different things. The state of the pipe determines how : much power the motor can make. The load of the bike determines how : much power the motor needs to make. : -- : - )V(ark)< FZR400 Pilot / ZX900 Payload / RD400 Mechanic : You're welcome. Well I, for one, am so very glad that I have fuel injection! All those needles and orifices and venturi and pressures... It's worse than school human biology reproduction lessons (sex). Always made me feel a bit queasy. -- Nick (the Simple Minded Biker) DoD 1069 Concise Oxford Tube Rider M'Lud.
tes: Did anyone think that Texas would have the top two home run leaders at a given point in the season and neither one would be Jose Canseco? Steve []
I had the same question for my 55lb NEC 5FG monitor. The Apple guy said that their 50lb 16" monitor is OK to put ontop of the Centris and had no coment beyond that. I was going to just put the NEC on the box but then I got to thinking - the monitor has a small tilt/swivel base so maybe the weight would be more concentrated than with Apple's (I don't know the area of the base of their tilt/swivel). Additionally, the CDROM drive is in the middle. So I cut a piece of 3/8" thick wood to about 16.25" x 12", covered it in a cream covered cloth, and used it as a buffer layer between the Centris's top and the monitor!! Mick Mueck mick.mueck@analog.com
Nope, Germany has extremely restrictive citizenship laws. The ethnic Germans who have lived in Russia for over 100 years automatically become citizens if they move to Germany, but the Turks who are now in their third generation in Germany can't. It's not a very good example to show citizenship without descent. Karl -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
For those of you who are thinking about fiamms, you might also want to think about airhorns. I just installed a set of Bosch air horns ordered from Dennis Kirk (pg. 282 of the latest catalog) on my '85 FJ1100. They are rated at 93db at 7 meters. I installed them using 10 gage wire from the battery to the relay to the compressor to ground. My stock horn connectors fit the relay pins just fine. I soldered the connections to the relay and compressor, and used a crimp type battery connector and an inline 10amp fuse/connector from NAPA. I installed the compressor just forward of the fuse box in the front fairing by tie wrapping between the steering head frame and the black steel tube frame used to support the front fairing. You have to remove the front fairing to do this, but it fits outside of the frame but inside the fairing on the two vertical supports just in front of the fuses. Depending how tight your fairing follows the frame, you should be able to fit it somewhere in the fairing. The compressor is about 2" in diameter and about 5" long. The relay mounted on the front of the steering head frame (it is small so there should be plenty of good places for it. I found a perfect place for the horns that required only tie wraps to mount. The horns fit inside the front fairing/frame and stick out on either side just in front of the air scoops, but behind the turn signals. The back of the horns point back towards the center of the bike and come real close to where the gas tank connects to the front part of the frame. There is just enough room to the outside to allow full lock to lock clearance, and there are nice cut outs in the frame for the back of the horn to go into. The short horn is even with the fairing, and the long one sticks out about an inch or so, but it is really not that noticable unless you look closely. They end up pointing down slightly and maybe 30 degrees from straight ahead (perfect for those cagers trying to change lanes into you). If you have any other questions about the mounting, email, and I can try to explain better. If your bike is not red, then you may want to paint them first. How do they work you ask? They are very, very, very *LOUD*. They sound more like a european sports car than a truck, but a vast improvement over stock. I have used them at least daily since installing them, and the 10 amp fuse has not blown yet (although, the duration of the horn blasts have been short). I've repeatedly scared the shit out of my friends with them, even though they know that I have the horns, they still jump. They are perfect for keeping the pedestrians on the sidewalk. The bottom line is they work, are loud enough to cause pain and suffering to those stupid lane changing cages (as well as take a few years off their lives) and are relatively easy to install on the FJ. YMMV.
This makes 5! It IS SPRING! Neither were we. Read for a few days, then try again.
The trackbal on my PB140 no longer moves in the horizontal direction. When I called the nearest Authorized Apple Service person I was told that it probably needed replacing and that would cost me over $150! Ouch! Can anyone recommend a less expensive way to fix this problem? One strange symptom of the problem is that when I take the ball out of the socket and shine a light into the hole I can make the cursor move horizontally by moving the wheel with my finger, it works fine that way but won't work if I turn off the light. Any suggestions or comments? ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ben Roy .......just a poor college student.......internet<br4416a@american.edu>
HELP! I just received my Falcon 2.2.1 upgrade from Spectrum Holobyte today. My SE is running Sys 7.0.1 with 4mb of RAM. Like the instructions said, I only installed Disk 2 (The program...no start up screen or music). I just downloaded Macsbug from ftp.apple.com like it said, and installed it in my System folder. I restarted the mac an hour later, and it wouldn't completely boot off the internal HD. I get the "happy mac", then it disappears, only to reappear and repeat the cycle continuously. I never even get the "Welcome to Macintosh" message. Norton utilities fixed about 12 new problems, but the same thing still happened. What do I do? Please e-mail to "orly@aludra.usc.edu" THANKS IN ADVANCE!!! Victor Orly ;
It's about time. Why do atheists spend so much time paying attention to the bible, anyway? Face it, there are better things to do with your life! I used to chuckle and snort over the silliness in that book and the absurdity of people believing in it as truth, etc. Why do we spend so little time on the Mayan religion, or the Native Americans? Heck, the Native Americans have signifigantly more interesting myths. Also, what about the Egyptians. I think we pay so much attention to Christianity because we accept it as a _religion_ and not a mythology, which I find more accurate. I try to be tolerant. It gets very hard when someone places a book under my nose and tells me it's special. It's not.
Anybody use CD Speedway out there? Is it as good as they say? I hate waiting around for my CD to finish loading the next level in WC and the such. How much memory does it eat up?
10 month old stereo system for sale. Luxman R-351 receiver, Onkyo TA-RW404 tape deck, and Polk Monitor M4.6 book shelf speakers are for sale. Receiver has 5 year warranty, and all equipment is in excellent condition. Paid $950 for the system and willing to consider the best offer. Will sell seperate pieces also if desired. Please send best offer to suraj@cs.jhu.edu. Speakers: Polk Monitor M4.6 bookshelf speakers Paid $250 pair. Willing to consider best offer. Receiver: Luxman R-351 receiver with 5 year (yes 5 years) warranty. Paid $475. Willing to consider best offer. Full remote, 2 pairs of speaker connections, 60 watts per channel, but drives like a 150 watts per channel Has all the standard features, and more. Tape Deck: Onkyo TA-RW404 tape deck Paid $275. Willing to consider best offer. Dual cassette, Dolby B, C, and HX Pro. Input level control for recording, auto reverse both sides. Has all standard features. Send E-mail with best offer to suraj@cs.jhu.edu
Hello, I just recently bought a NEC 6FG. In order to get the highest possible quality and refresh rates, I'd like to know if there are any accelerator cards with BNC connectors (as opposed to the usual d-sub connector)? Thanks for any information,
But, you wouldn't know what red *was*, and you certainly couldn't judge it subjectively. And, objectivity is not applicable, since you are wanting to discuss the merits of red.
Reposted, without permission, from rec.music.dylan:
OK, I'm sure that this has been asked 100's of times before, but I have wondered since I heard it... Where the hell did the nickname of the "Habs" come from for the Montreal Canadiens?
That reminds me of one of Texas's ads...you hear a guy speaking in French (like it's a letter home), then the French moves to the background, and a French-accented voice come to the foreground, talking about how he went walking on the beach, and it felt so much like home that he decided to take his shoes off...and the rest of his clothes. It ended with "please send bail." :-) I normally have an unloaded Colt Delta in my glove box with a loaded magazine handy (which is perfectly legal in Oklahoma). For those times that I'm travelling inter-state, I keep an unloaded S&W .44 Magnum revolver in the glove box, with a speed-loader in my pocket (which is legal everywhere, under Federal law, Illinois State Police be hanged). As I've said before, this is stricly for defense; my insurance will pay to replace my car, but I only have one life... James
Please Ineed information about desk top publishe- post graduate courses and if possible email address or normal mail. thanks in advance
I just bought an actix graphics engine 32 plus with 2 megs. I am not impressed... I have been having all sorts of problems with the board. Various lock-ups in windows, problems with the screen not centering, no flexibilty in choosing synch rates for a monitor, buggy windows drivers, lack of 1024x768x64k driver, If anyone else has one of these cards, please e-mail me... Looks like i'm going to try the ati ultra plus...
i'm sorry, as i have never heard of any of this. Guess they don't think it's important enough for a classroom, and i was going on what i've seen in pics.(some movies--real nice scource there, huh?) I just always recall thinking that GOOD roads of asphalt didn't come around til the Interstate Hiway Act, or whatever they called it(60's?), and that wood and cobblestone roads were fairly rare up through the depression, except in overpopulated places like England and US cities. Obviously netwisdom says i am wrong. i knew it was almost always done, but i knew of no reason that it might not be done the other way by DeSoto for their car. Seems like they had some other deviations from the norm too, at times :-)
Our new Attorney General seems determined to do so. In the past She hopes the King beating will not reduce public confidince in law enforcement. The tactics of using tear gas and driving tanks through walls in Waco were intended to further a "peacefull solution" to the crisis. Those same tactics were intended to prevent a mass suicide, but she never expected the sect to react by killing themselves. It's comforting to know, at least, that she wasn't Clinton's first choice...
John White from STAC Electronics can be reached at compuserv as 72370,1005. For me 72370.1005@compuserve.com would as email address work from Internet. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ internet: ffritze@hpwbe007.wad.hp.com phone: Germany 7243 602296 address: Fromut FRITZE, Waldbronn Analytic Division R&D, Hewlett Packard Str, D 7517 Waldbronn 2, Germany
I'm looking for graphics (clipart, bmp, gif...) of anything relating to ophthalmology (I know it's a weird request). Anything such as eyeglasses, contact lenses, eyes...would be greatly appreciated. Thanks.
Never was? Probably. Is not now? Debatable. What other valid test can you think of besides the final standings or divisional playoff winner? What do you propose, a worthless vote like they do in college football? What a joke! If I remember right, Brad Park was also involved in that trade. He wasn't all that bad a hockey player. But let's look at some of Sinden's trades over the years: ??? for Rick Middleton (Rangers). I don't know who Sinden gave up for Middle- ton, so I'll call this one a +. Barry Pederson for Cam Neely (Canucks). +++. Any questions? Greg Hawgood for Vladimir Ruzicka (Oilers). ++. Didja see that one Rosie roofed against Roy in last year's playoffs? Courtnall/Ranford for Andy Moog (Oilers). A wash. Moog is a good goaltender, Ranford burned Boston in the Finals in his first year, and Courtnall always seems to get his points. Anyone in Vancouver care to comment on Courtnall as a defensive liability? Ken Linseman for Dave Poulin (Flyers) ++. Any more questions? Janney/Quintal for Adam Oates (Blues). ++. Janney is an enormous talent and a personable guy, the the Bruins play in Adam's Division. Enough said? So,even if you count the Esposito/Vadnais/Ratelle/Park/I don't remember who else (Joe Zanussi?) trade as a double minus, Harry the Horse trader comes out on top. I submit that the Bruins are always good because of Harry, not in spite of him. BTW, do you really think the Habs will bounce back next season. I'll bet they finish fourth or fifth in the Conference, behind any of the following: Pittsburgh, Quebec, Boston, Washington, Islanders. Someone correct me if these five teams will not be in Montreal's conference. In summary, things look bleak for the Habs, at least in the near future. I suspect that the next team from La Belle Province to win the Cup will be that team that Lindros didn't want to play for. -- Dan Lyddy daniell@cory.berkeley.edu University of California at Berkeley
If you need just to change the wallpaper, then I've written a short program in VB that does this by using SystemParametersInfo-function. The bad news is that you need VBRUN200.DLL to run it, and the DLL is some 350kb (the program is about 7kb). The order of pictures depends on the system date and the number of BMP-files in the directory, so the picture remains the same if you execute the program multiple times during the same day and the number of BMPs has not changed. If you feel this is what you need then I could uuencode it and email it to you. (It is unavailable via ftp.)
Hi Adda, Most Bible scholars agree that there was one copy of each book at a certain time -- the time when the author wrote it. Unfortunately, like all works from this time period and earlier, all that exists today are copies. There are parts of books, scraps really, that date from around the mid second century (A.D. 130+). There are some complete books, letters, etc. from the middle third century. The first complete collection of the New Testament dates from the early 4th century (A.D. 325). Throughout this period are writings of various early church fathers/leaders who quoted various scriptures in their writings. If you mean that someone discovered thousands of "Bibles" which were all perfect copies dating from the last part of the 1st century...No! If you mean that there are thousands of early manuscripts (within the dates given above, but not letter perfect) and that the most probable text can be reconstructed from these documents and that the earliest original autographs (now lost) probably were written starting sometime shortly after A.D. 50, then yes. From the original authors. We call them Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Peter, Paul, James, and one other not identified. As long as you make it. Regards,
Reported yesterday in the Washington Post (Kathy Sawyer, writer): The article plays down the Russian role in US space. Gibbons (science advisor to Clinton) sent Goldin a letter indicating NASA should not limit redesign options to those compatible with Mir orbit. The White House thinks expectations for Russian cooperation have been raised too high. The article reports that some think the spending and schedule limits for space station are so stringent that the redesign is nearly impossible. That's why some think Goldin has begun looking at Russian hardware. Goldin states NASA will present all options to the administration which will then have decision making power. Goldin and the White House have totally ruled out using Energia to boost the station.
About two months ago I purchased the Adaptec ASW-410 driver for use with a CD-ROM drive. At the time this seemed the thing to do as the documentation I had with my Adaptec SCSI controller said that this is the driver to be used with CD-ROM drives. Since then I have learn that this driver is out of date in a major way and that Adaptec have an upgrade deal for going to the next driver (I think it's called EZI-SCSI or something). I wasn't too fussed about this until I upgraded by CD-ROM drive from a Sony CDU-541 to a Sony CDU-641. I now find that the audio-mode will not work. I assume it is not being handled correctly by the ASW-410 driver. So, should I chase Adaptec for an upgrade? If so does anyone know their FAX number? Any assistance appreciated. Regards BTW: everything else works fine, certainly seems that Sony have caught up with the rest with the 641.
Is this the joke of the month? 1. Your fascist grandparents exterminated 2.5 million Muslim people between 1914 and 1920. 2. Your Nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the European Jewry during WWII. 3. Your criminal cousins have been slaughtering Muslim women, children and elderly people in fascist x-Soviet Armenia and Karabag for the last four years. The entire population of x-Soviet Armenia now, as a result of the Genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people, are Armenians. For nearly one thousand years, the Turkish and Kurdish people lived on their homeland - the last one hundred under the oppressive Soviet and Armenian occupation. The persecutions culminated in 1914: The Armenian Government planned and carried out a Genocide against its Muslim subjects. 2.5 million Turks and Kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their homeland. After one thousand years, Turkish and Kurdish lands were empty of Turks and Kurds. The survivors found a safe heaven in Turkiye. Today, x-Soviet Armenian government rejects the right of Turks and Kurds to return to their Muslim lands occupied by x-Soviet Armenia. Today, x-Soviet Armenian government covers up the genocide perpetrated by its predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against humanity. x-Soviet Armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide against the Muslims by admitting to the crime and making reparations to the Turks and Kurds. Turks and Kurds demand the right to return to their lands, to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland. During the 78th Anniversary, we come once again reiterate the unity of the Muslim People, the timelessness of the Turkish and Kurdish Demands and the desire to pursue the struggle for that restitution - a struggle that unites all Turks and Kurds. Today, we appeal to all Turkish and Kurdish people in the United States and Canada to participate en masse in the Commemorative Events, be they cultural, political or religious. Serdar Argic
>>I see you are a total ignorant asshole as well. >^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ It's the sign of a small mind to use filthy >language when he can't articulate his point. Oh, no, not in this case. I've noticed that you conveniently edited out your stupid comment that the PRC stands for Cambodia. When we're arguing the Vietnam war and about Cambodia, and you toss in a boner like that (along with your other boners), you are an ignorant asshole. Oh, and even the Vietnamese agree that they did far more damage to Cambodia than we ever did. -- There are actually people that STILL believe Love Canal was some kind of environmental disaster. Weird, eh?
I am interested in finding out how the 4Runner and Pathfinder have been updated in the past few years. Like new engine, suspension and the like. I noticed that the 1993 and 1992 4Runners are identical, for example, and was looking into buying a used one. Any info would be appreciated, esp. models/years to check out or avoid.
[STUFF DELETED] ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ A friend who owns a company that builds clones shared with me the fact that the PCI chipset is NOT expensive -- how about $12? Many money-hungry-clone makers, no doubt, will attempt to price the boards high only because it's new technology. Lance Hartmann (lance%hartmann.austin.ibm.com@ibmpa.awdpa.ibm.com) Yes, that IS a '%' (percent sign) in my network address.
Electronics Art's Ultrabots game for sale with book and original 3.5" disks in the original box. - $22 or best offer.
I have two pairs of headphones I'd like to sell. These are excellent, and both in great condition: Denon AH-D350 JVC HA-D590 Any reasonable offer accepted.
The following is posted for a friend. You can send replies to this email address or call him at 503-752-1499. (Glen) I have a CITIZEN OVERTURE 110 Laser printer for sale. It is in excellent condition. It has been used less than one year on this drum. I am asking $500, but all offers will be considered. Below are some specs on it. Toner lifespan: 2500 pages Drum lifespan: 15,000 pages Resolution: 300 DPI Memory: 512K Emulation: Epson FX286 IBM ProPrinter Diablo 635 Printing Capacity: Quad-density graphics Tray capacity: 250 sheets Reason for sale: Financial--I need to pay tuition. Thanks, -Glen Anderson
Nobody is using discrete IC's to do these functions anymore if at all. I doubt any of the Motor electronics had any to start with. ...Much less TTL.
The fact that she was wearing a miniskirt with no underwear was presented as evidence that she was a prostitute, and the court apparently found this compelling. Clayton does indeed know the difference. Greg apparently doesn't. Because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the Marines were engaged in self-defense. Got it, knucklehead? Because, in part [REPEAT AFTER ME], "the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the Marines were engaged in self-defense". Hopefully, one of these days you will understand. With respect to credibility, I would rate Clayton Cramer an order of magnitude higher than a) the news media, and b) homosexuals. Clayton is indeed consistent. And so are you.
I guarantee that if Bonds wins the MVP the Giants will finish higher than 6th. luigi
Oh no! Someone is provided useful information AND mentioned that they made money in the field. Don't they know that usenet is reserved for uninformed speculation by people trying to sell their personal stuff (from houses to dead pcs) at a huge markup/trying to unload stuff they bought from their company at just under retail, and other "non-commercial" activities. The net is not "supposed" to be a dumping ground for free ads, but reserving it for tripe doesn't seem to be a significant improvement. So? Either they target it well enough to pay for it, in other words, they manage to send it to people who want the stuff (in which case it is junk only for the "rest" and the transaction costs are borne appropriately in this case) or they go bankrupt. Seems fair to me. You could hold your breath. You could kill offending messages as they come onto your machine and refuse to send them any further, but not until you turn blue. -andy
TEXT 44 bhogaisvarya-prasaktanam tayapahrta-cetasam vyavasayatmika buddhih samadhau na vidhiyate bhoga--to material enjoyment; aisvarya--and opulence; prasaktanam--for those who are attached; taya--by such things; apahrta-cetasam--bewildered in mind; vyavasaya-atmika--fixed in determination; buddhih--devotional service to the Lord; samadhau--in the controlled mind; na--never; vidhiyate--does take place. TRANSLATION In the minds of those who are too attached to sense enjoyment and material opulence, and who are bewildered by such things, the resolute determination for devotional service to the Supreme Lord does not take place. PURPORT Samadhi means ``fixed mind.'' The Vedic dictionary, the Nirukti, says, samyag adhiyate 'sminn atma-tattva-yathatmyam: ``When the mind is fixed for understanding the self, it is said to be in samadhi.'' Samadhi is never possible for persons interested in material sense enjoyment, nor for those who are bewildered by such temporary things. They are more or less condemned by the process of material energy. Bhagavad-Gita As It Is Books of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami --------------------------------------------------------- | Don't forget to chant: | | | | Hare Krishna Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna Hare Hare | | Hare Rama Hare Rama, Rama Rama Hare Hare | | | | Kalki's Infoline BBS Aiken, South Carolina, USA | | (system@kalki33.lakes.trenton.sc.us) |
Hate to mess up your point, but it is incredibly easy to learn how to make a nuclear weapon. The hard part is getting the radioactives to put in it. Have you ever read Tom Clancy's _The Sum of All Fears_? It describes in great detail how a Palestinian terrorist group constructed a nuclear bomb using stolen (actually found) plutonium, with some help from an East German nuclear physicist. For some non fiction, read Tom Clancy's article _Five Minutes Till Midnight_. It shows how a terrorist group could construct a nuke using Neptunium, a low grade radioactive waste product dumped in toxic waste sites and forgotten about. He also claims information on constructing a nuke is easily found in any large library. Sounds kind of scary, doesn't it? :-( Don't know whether you could get busted for warning of a speedtrap. Doug Holland --
I'm looking for a complete hw/sw solution: I need an ISA/VLB scsi controller (e.g Ultrastor 34F) plus a tape drive (500Mb or less like Archive) plus a Windows program that will work on these. My intended system will have 32Mb RAM so plain ISA controllers will no longer do. But I also hear that the SCSI world is not very organized. So does anybody have a tape backup setup like what I'm looking for ? Please describe it. Thanks. e-mail please.
Actually I favor government funded research. It *is* a pump prime for a lot of basic technologies. I also understand the short term value of high tech welfare programs. But they can't substitute for long range wealth generation via commercial enterprise. That's what's needed to maintain a healthy economy *anywhere*, on Earth or Luna. I don't see that long term potential on Luna due to a bunch of factors I outline in another post. Gary
The dead giveaway is the repeated protestations that the new plan is aimed at "criminals", "drug dealers", "terrorists", etc. You'd think the tactic would be too obvious to trot out yet again after a decade of Sarah and the rest of the Brady Bunch using it to destroy the Second Amendment, but evidently the control nuts feel it will serve them one more time.
For sale : Bose A5 subwoofer 1 month old 2 Advent minis 4 months old email offers to
1975 H-1 500 Brand new top end Chambers Clean + black! 1,500$ Paul: (510) 839-2161 Please do not contact this email address: contact the seller. Cheers
Brian K., guess what? You missed the point. On a scale from cold to hot, you are at 0 degrees Kelvin. Then as you understand it, what is it? Yes. I agree with that. But what does that have to do with Jesus? Punishment you say? Jesus did not regard his death as punishment. Good. I wouldn't either--not the way you understand it. Ask Jesus himself. He himself said why in John 12:23-32. It isn't a mystery to anyone and there certainly is no need for a persuasive argument. Read Jesus's own reply to your question. Jesus gives more reasons in John 16:7. But one obvious reason why Jesus died, (and as with everything else, it has nothing do with his punishment) was that he could rise to life again--so that we would "stop doubting and believe" (John 21:27). The fact that Jesus rose from the dead is my hope that I too will rise from the dead. It is an obvious point. Do not overlook it. Without this obvious point, I would have no hope and my faith would be vanity. Why did Jesus suffer in his death? Again, ask Jesus. Jesus says why in John 15:18-25. That's no mystery either. "The world hates him without reason." It is a direct proclamation of how far we humans botch things up and thus, how much we need a Saviour.
Whenever I exit Windows, I can't use control-alt DEL to reboot my computer, because the system hangs when I do this. I can still reboot using the reset key, but I would like to know why this happens.. Eric
If you were omniscient, you'd know who exactly did what, and with what purpose in mind. Then, with a particular goal in mind, you sould be able to methodically judge whether or not this action was in accordance with the general goal. In an objective system, there are known goals. Then, actions are judged as either being compatible with these goals, or not. Simple. The problem with most systems in current practice is that the goals differ. That is, the goals of each society are different. Note that an objective system is not necessarily an inherent one. I've said it many, many times. Which part do you have a problem with? But, we can enslave the animals, right? But just not kill them? Or are you a vegetarian for health reasons? No. I fail to see how my *personal* views are relevant, anyway. Of course not. It seems perfectly valid to kill members of other species for food. It might be nice, though, if the other animals were not made to suffer. For instance, a cow in a field lives out its life just about the same way it would in the wild. They seem happy enough. However, the veal youngsters aren't treated very well. I don't know. What is the goal of this particular system? There is no inherent system. Nope. Again, it seems okay to kill other species for food.
Interesting discussion. I limit myself to *one* 'standard serving' of alcohol if I'm going to ride. And mostly, unless the alcohol is something special (fine ale, good wine, or someone else's vsop), I usually just don't drink *any*. But then alcohol just isn't really important to me, mainly for financial reasons... At least one of the magazines claims to follow the aviation guideline of "no alcohol whatsoever" within 24hrs of riding a 'company' bike. Don't remember which mag though, it was a few years ago. Regards, Charles (hicc.) DoD:0.001 RZ350
Trying to pin point a hardware problem with my disk, Maxtor 7213AT. Group files get corrupted on a regular basis. Only happens on this drive, D had only one corrupt file in over a year and it was under the control of winword on C. 32-bit disk access and smartdrive are off. Since installation of dblspace problem has turned from an annoyance to a reason for murder. Since the most frequent files corrupted are the *.grp files, are these the last thing written to when exitting Windows? Also, are there any pd/shareware utilities available that do a more thorough job than dos 6, NDD 4.5, etc? DOS 6 and Win 3.1 compatable. Thanks
Actually, for the Padres this year so far it's 23%. They are 5th in the league in HRs, and ALL have been solo shots. Pythagorean projection puts them at .360 winning percentage or 58-104. Need some pitching help, fast! Good news, though, is that Hurst has been throwing curveballs w/o any pain. Threw 80 pitches yesterday. Should be back in a couple of weeks. Maybe we can trade him to the Yankees for Militello. Dave
Hi there, I think it is time to create a MS DOS 6.0 FAQ since lots of questions about it are actually flooding the net. I won't be able to write it my self because of the lack of time/knowledge/experience.
Just wanted to ask a question. I bought a hard disk drive second-hand the other day, and I opened the packaging up and saw that there was a small sticker on the drive that had a little red apple with a bite taken out of it. It's socket did not look the same as my existing hard disk that is in my computer already (it has fifty little pins sticking out from it instead of the 39 that is sticking out of my old hard disk. I don't know if disk drives for the Apple (or Mac) are different from ones used in AT clones, so could someone tell me if I could use this hard disk on my AT clone? If not, what did I just purchase? It's a Quantum Prodrive. It's dated 1988 on the green board. Will I need a controller/add-in card? All the help is much appreciated. Thanks! :)
Has anyone successfully converted Interleaf graphics to CGM, or even heard of it being done???? We'd love to hear about it. -Mike McConnell
Here are some notes about what the church is to be like and some helpful ideas about how to choose a church: Colossians 1:15-18 A. Jesus is the head of the body, the church B. You cannot say "yes" to Jesus, but "no" to the church Ephesians 2:19-22 A. The church is the family of God B. The church is based on the Word of God only Cornerstone=Christ Foundation= Apostles=New Testament Prophets=Old Testament (see Revelation 21:9-14) 1 Corinthians 12:12-13 A. Baptism is when we become a member of the church As for the question of denominations: A. The Bible teaches that there is only ONE church from Ephesians 4:4-6, Romans 12:4-5, 1 Corinthians 12:12-13 B. 1 Corinthians 1:10-13 says that there should be no divisions in the church. There should be no following of personalities in the church (and in time, their writings) C. There are so many churches today because of a problem. 2 Timothy 4:1-4 says that people will turn away from the truth and try to find a church that teaches a doctrine that suits their lifestyle Hebrews 10:24-25 A. Do not miss church B. Purpose is to encourage each other, so we will remain faithful. Involved on a relationship level in the church C. Must come to ALL services Another verse which is helpful is Hebrews 3:12-15. The church should be encouraging daily, as it is their duty to do. Of course, more standards apply: 1 Timothy 4:16 People in the church should be watching their lives and doctrines to make sure they both live up to the Word entirely (ie, disciples). Acts 17:10-12 The pastor does not come close to the Apostle Paul (natural conclusion since the Apostle Paul talked with Jesus directly face to face), so if the Bereans, who were considered noble, didn't take Paul at his word but checked out what he said with Scripture to verify his statements, then church members are to do the same and verify the pastor's statements. If they are not verifiable or valid in light of other verses, then that group should be avoided as a church (would've made a wonderful suggestion to the Waco group, especially in light of Matthew 24).
North heavy Duty hi hat stand $45 older stand... but definately in working shape.. could use a little clean up. comes with clutch and felts, etc.. Pearl bass drum pedal with felt beater $20 honer cymbal stand $15 (needs some work on cymbal stem) Zildjian 20" Ride cymbal $55 main line zildjian... older ride cymbal Ludwig snare stand $10 okay snare stand.. NOT like a remo though ;) shipping extra.. please email
Can you say, "I get more background radiation from living in Denver or having an office in a limestone building than I do standing next to a power reactor at full power or standing next to a nuclear warhead that is armed?" Look up "shielding" in your dictionary. You don't need six feet of lead to make decent shielding; your dead skin cell layer does an excellent job on alpha particles, and neutrons are slowed by mere *water*. What do you think 75% of you is? If the militia has as its job the overthrow of an illegal government, they are indeed useful weapons to the militia. They won't be too useful in certain areas, but leveling the Pentagon would be a "good thing" for said overthrow and it's likely one man carrying a backpack would stand a better chance than one thousand armed with Colt Peacemakers. Don't let self-defense become the only reason you can have a gun and your sole means of justification. Myself, I won't overthrow my government until it ceases to be my legal government, but if I need to I want every weapon I can get. One can just as easily say no rifle larger than a .22 is needed to kill a human being. They are right. When that human being is wearing armor and riding in an APC, things get a bit different. I don't see where the weapon is a problem. It's not. Only the manner of use is in contention here. I guess you either don't have an alarm clock or have never heard the terms "timer" or "martyr" either. Don't forget remote detonation devices. That CB radio in the pickup next to you can easily transmit ten miles in decent weather. That's out of the blast radius of many portable nuclear devices. Just what is it about radioactive decay that has you worried?
Very likely possible. Reminds me of the movie "The Rapture".
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Therein lies the rub. The HD slash cut, or baloney cuts as some call them, ARE NOT STOCK mufflers. They're sold for "off-road use only," and are much louder than stock mufflers.
The Adaptec 1540-series use bus mastering. This means that the CPU doesn't sit waiting for data bytes, it can go off and do other computing - if you have an advanced multi-tasking OS, that is. DOS just sits and waits anyway. Why don't you start with the spec-sheet of the ISA bus first? :-) IDE was designed to plug into ISA virtually unaided - in essence, IDE *is* ISA, on a ribbon cable. Therefore it's specs are the same as ISA - 8MHz clock, 16 bit width, 5MB/sec. This is why I've concluded that IDE on VL-bus is a waste of a fast slot. The card's job would to slow the VL-bus transactions to ISA speed. Heck, that's what ISA slots do - I'll just use one of those instead.
Absolutely. Unfortunately, most of them have had 3 weeks of neurology in medical school and 1 month (maybe) in their residency. Most of that is done in the hospital where migraines rarely are seen. Where are they supposed to learn? Those who are diligent and read do learn, but most don't, unfortunately. We are the only ones, sometimes, who have enough interest in headaches to spend the time to get enough history to diagnose them. Too often, the primary care physician hears "headache" and loses interest in anything but giving the patient analgesics and getting them out of the office so they can get on to something more interesting. I hope you meant "inarguably". -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Pair of Polk S4 for sale Brand New never opened $220.00
KM> Is the 486DX3/99 anything more than a myth? I haven't heard of it KM>from any source that I trust, and I sure don't see any ads for DX3/99 KM>machines in Computer Shopper. Intel is pretty busy with the Pentium KM>right now; I can't seem them introducing their own competition. I heard the rumor as well, but the story differed. Intel was not coming out with the tripling clock 486, a clone from IBM was. I got this rumor from a pretty good source ( Has designs computer equipment, and hav never been wrong let, but there is a first time for everything. ) ... I can just hear that rumor-mill turning now ... -rdd --- . WinQwk 2.0b#0 . Unregistered Evaluation Copy * KMail 2.95d W-NET HQ, hal9k.ann-arbor.mi.us, +1 313 663 4173 or 3959
On the cars mentioned - 3 series from the late 80's the "electronic" odometer is really a mechanical drum type odometer, that is driven by pulses from a speed sensor on the rear axle. These pulses are converted into mechanical pulses that turn the odometer - and speedometer. No way changing or erasing an eprom is going to change the mileage reading. It also means the odometer is just as easy (or hard) to change as any other mechanical odometer. On the other hand it is a bit easier to disconnect the speed sensor and run the car with no speedometer or odometer reading...a simple switch will do the job. It also will disable the speed limiter, which will enable the car to reach it's full speed. ;-)
And again...... title says it all. WHY?
I have the following for sale. Absolutely new, I won it at a raffle and have no use for it. Microsoft Excel Software Development Kit Version 4 for MS WIndows and the Apple Macintosh Contains - a 498 page book by Microsoft Press - 2 3.5" floppy disks containing software/sample code - a poster of the api calls etc. Orig. price is US$ 49.95. I would like to sell it for the highest offer over $30 + shipping. Please email reply to attmail!akachhy Thanks
Hey, it's better than the status quo. I am far less worried about "the feds" tapping my phone than high school scanner surfers who get their kicks out of eavesdropping on cellular and cordless phone calls. It would be stupid to rely on even a "Clipperized" channel for truly sensitive material, but it *does* seem to finally offer a reasonable way to guard against casual eavesdropping. For example, even with my strong "right to bear arms" view of the private right to possess and use strong cryptosystems, the system as described provides enough security that I would actually buy a cordless phone, and would be much less wary of using cellular phones, walkie-talkies, and so on. As long as it's only used for mass-market voice scrambling, I actually don't see a problem with it. If you want more security than it offers, use something different. Use PKCS for electronic mail, CELP over DES or triple DES with Diffie-Hellman key exchange for your voice traffic, or whatever. And yes, I'd rather just see all crypto restrictions lifted, but this is at least an incrememental improvement for certain applications...
Portuguese launch complex??? Gosh.... Polish are for American in the same way as Portuguese are for Brazilians (I am from Brazil). There is a joke about the Portuguese Space Agency that wanted to send a Portuguese astronaut to the surface of the Sun (if there is such a thing). How did they solve all problems of sending a man to the surface of the Sun??? Simple... their astronauts travelled during the night... C.O.EGALON@LARC.NASA.GOV C.O.Egalon@larc.nasa.gov
On my 486DX33 with the Stealth 24 VLB I get 11.4 WinMarks with ver. 3.11
I heard FASTMicro went out of business. Is this true? They don't answer their 800 number. It's 800-821-9000.
JOB 26:7 He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing.
Well, I would guess the probability of a BMW driver having a gun would be lower than some other vehicles. At least, I would be more likely to say something to someone in a luxosedan, than a hopped-up pickup truck, for example. - Mark ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Mark S. Burnham (markb@wc.novell.com) AMA#668966 DoD#0747 Alfa Romeo GTV-6 '90 Ninja 750
No. I do not thing we are doing them a favor. I have simply stated that they are not treated as a second class citizens. That was my point. I fail to see how my words show discrimination. And what do you mean that they do not get nothing? Is, for example, helth insurance, food, and tuition nothing? I'm sorry, but I cannot see any logical order in the above argument. What part exactly is this one? The people cannot even sell their property if they want to leave Turkey. The patriarch could not get a permision to renovate some buildings for decades; it needed a special agreement between the two goverments for this. Talk about a part of the society? Why has the size of the Greek community reduced to 1,500 old people and priests then? Yeah, you bet. You are far off from the reality.
(Robert L. McMillin) rants: And how did the "free love advocates of the 1960's" manage to perform this demolition--forced breeding programs or something? Now let me get this straight. After a nice, long rant about how people need to take personal responsibility for their economic and social lives, all of a sudden 1960's radicals (such as me, I guess) are responsible for poor people's lifestyles? Tell me how that works--or do you think that poor people are just too dumb to think for themselves? There are many reasons for the disintegration of the family and support systems in general among this nation's poor. Somehow I don't think Murphy Brown--or Janis Joplin--is at the top of any sane person's list. You want to go after my generation's vaunted cultural revolution for a lasting change for the worse, try so-called "relevant" or "values" education. Hey, it seemed like a good idea at the time. How were we to know you needed a real education first--I mean, we took that for granted.
Second Wave makes NuBus card cages that work on the PDS slots of at least three Macs: the SE/30, IIsi and Centris 610. They have not, to my knowledge, announced such a device for the LCII, but they could make one, technologically. The PDS card that goes to the cage simply needs the NuBus controller circuitry present on NuBus Macs. Why, though, does anyone care about this? dgr has a three-PDS adapter for the LC/LCII. They will soon have one for the LCIII. PDS is better than NuBus for most people in most applications. Granted, there are more NuBus cards. But, most applications that require a NuBus card (like full-motion video capture) shouldn't be done on an LC/LCII/LCIII anyway.
>say they have a "history of untrustworthy behavoir[sic]"?
: You know, it just occurred to me today that this whole Christian thing : can be blamed solely on Mary. : : So, she's married to Joseph. She gets knocked up. What do you think : ol' Joe will do if he finds she's been getting around? So Mary comes up : with this ridiculous story about God making her pregnant. : Nice attempt Chris . . . verrry close. You missed the conspiracy by 1 step. Joseph knew who knocked her up. He couldn't let it be known that somebody ELSE got ol' Mary prego. That wouldn't do well for his popularity in the local circles. So what happened is that she was feeling guilty, he was feeling embarrassed, and THEY decided to improve both of their images on what could have otherwise been the downfall for both. Clever indeed. Come to think of it . . . I have gained a new respect for the couple. Maybe Joseph and Mary should receive all of the praise being paid to jesus.
I have a friend who has a very pronounced slouch of his upper back. He always walks and sits this way so I have concluded that he is hunchback. Is this a genetic disorder, or is it something that people can correct. i.e. is it just bad posture that can be changed with a bit of will power?
Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.
Koff! You mean that as long as I put you to sleep first, I can kill you without being cruel? This changes everything.
I'll pose a question here that's got me thinking: what distinguishes "true" religion from cults (I'm speaking generally here, not specifially about Christianity)? Jerry Falwell was on Good Morning America on Tuesday ostensibly to answer this question. Basically, he said that true religion follows a message whereas a cult follows a person. But, then, Christianity is a cult because the message of Christianity IS the person of Jesus. So what distinguishes, for example, the Branch Davidian "cult" from the Presbyterian "church"? Doctrinal differences don't answer the question, IMHO, so don't use them as an answer. -- Scott at Brandeis "But God demonstrates His "The Lord bless you, and keep you; own love for us, in that the Lord make His face shine on you, while we were yet sinners, and be gracious to you; Christ died for us." the Lord lift up His countenance on you, and give you peace." -- Romans 5:8 [NASB] -- Numbers 6:24-26 [NASB]
WINDOWS NT I need some information on the new Windows NT. Anything you have would be appreciated. I know nothing about it. (Well, except that it exists.) Some questions... Memory requirements, hard drive space, release date? is it out? How is IBM reacting? Intel? Can it replace other LAN OS's? ANYTHING else like specs, speed, etc.. Thanks in advance! Luke
I AM an Ulf (and Pgh) fan, and what pisses me off about the whole Adam Graves/ Ulf Samuesson debate is that Ulf plays hard-hitting hockey (nothing wrong with that) while Graves does what he does when the only way to win a game is to intentionally hurt someone (which bites!). I thought they had instituted all kinds of new rules this season to stop crap like that?!? Is it just me, or does the officiating just still stink to high heaven? IMHO, if they could get rid of the existing refs, and institute a new system with more than one ref on the ice to keep an eye on the trouble-makers then a lot of these things would stop, and then the game would be ruled by the finnesse players: Mario, Selanne, Bure, Messier, et.al...
First off, with all these huge software packages and files that they produce, IDE may no longer be sufficient for me (510 Mb limit). Second, (rumor is) Microsoft recognizes the the importance of SCSI and will support it soon. I'm just not sure if it's on DOS, Win, or NT. At any rate, the deal is with Corel who makes (I hear) a good cohesive set of SCSI drivers. --
Is the 24v LH under $16K, though?
Be sure to say "chronic" dizziness, not just dizziness. Most patients with acute or subacute dizziness will get better. The vertiginous spells of Meniere's will also eventually go away, however, the patient is left with a deaf ear. This may have helped you, but I'm not sure it is good general advice. The odds that you are going to find some miracle with your own research that is secret or hidden from general knowledge for this or any other disease are slim. When good answers to these problems are found, it is usually in all the newspapers. Until then, spending a great deal of time and energy on the medical problem may divert that energy from more productive things in life. A limited amount should be spent to assure yourself that your doctor gave you the correct story, but after it becomes clear that you are dealing with a problem for which medicine has no good solution, perhaps the best strategy is to join the support group and keep abreast of new findings but not to make a career out of it. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Contrary to what the "Protocols of Zion crowd" might suggest, Judaism does not have any such goals. The question you ask is complicated and deserves an honest answer. I am going to provide one from my own current perspective, not a historical one. Currently, as a non-observant jew/Israeli/American, my own feeling is that Jews from the diaspora do not have a greater right in Palestine or Israel, than the palestinians or Israelis (both arab and jew) do. With regard to Jewish Israelis, they should have the same rights in Israel as do all other Israelis. Who are them? If by them you mean the non-religious Jews, I think you should be aware by now that the majority of the settlers and their supporters are religious. The other part of the problem is, to my knowledge, not that the palestinians don't want to be a part of Israel, as much as they would accept (for the most part) being full citizens of Israel, with all the priviliges and responsibilities accorded Israeli citizens. What they object to is the current limbo in which they find themselves.
I've just had the good fortune to be hired by Electronic Arts as Senior Computer Graphics Artist at the Vancouver, Canada office. :^) The timing has a lot to do with the 3DO which EA is putting a lot of resources into. I do not know of any titles to be developed as yet but will be happy to post as things develop. I start there May 3.
I became aware of the claim years ago. So I decided to check it out, on my own. But, then, that was in BN times (Before Net). So, here are some references. See Robin Lane Fox's _The unauthorized version_, (p.284) where Lane Fox writes, "... the one passage which appears to [comment on Jesus' career] is agreed to be a Christian addition." In my Re:Albert Sabin response (C5u7sJ.391@sunfish.usd.edu) to Jim Lippard (21 April 93), I noted that consensus is typically indicated subtly as in Elaine Pagel's _The gnostic gospels_ (p.85), to wit: "A comment *attributed* to Josephus reports ... [emphasis mine]". Scholars sometimes do not even mention the two Josephus entries, another subtlety reflecting consensus. So far as I can deduce, today's consensus is built on at least three things: 1) the long passage is way out of context, 2) Origen did not know about the long passage, and 3) the short and long passages are contradictory. I don't know the references wherein the arguments which led to consensus are orginally developed (does anyone?). Biblical scholars as I defined them include theologians and historians. The former, like the latter, incorporate historical, social, technological and ideological contexts as well as theology. So the distinction is blurred. I didn't elaborate on that. Sorry. (In turn, historians are compelled to incorporate theology). Can't say about the number of copies. These were, however, BG times (Before Gutenburg). A hundred first editions seems exceedingly high; counting on one hand seems more reasonable. Perhaps those mss. without the long insert (if any, because anything is possible) have been destroyed. Such a practice is certainly not foreign to religions. Anyway, all we have are mss. which have the two entries. Lippart (in the message noted above) talks about an Arabic ms. But here the ms. date is critical. :-)
^^^^^^ No argument at all with Murphy. He scared the hell out of me when he came in last year. On the other hand, the club though enough of Boever to put him into an awful lot of games (he may have led the league in appearances - he did at least at some point). He seemed to be a very viable setup guy - but I guess that's not considered that crucial by the club. I can just remember two years ago so well, though... ... I'm not that concerned. Those guys have been relatively consistent over the years and they have no good reasons to decline (no injuries, not old, ...). I expect them to come through just fine. It's those guys that have not been consistently good that are the worrisome part, even if they are coming through right now. This sounds like their old road unis. Pretty dull. Buttons or pullovers? I'll check through my uniform book to see if they've always had some orange. Well, we'll see. I've got a Astros pullover shirt with the "Astros stripes" across the shoulders and I have trouble making myself wear it in public. i can see why they might want that to change. Gee, if they eliminate the orange, will they reupholster the seats in the Astros stripes section (what used to be the gold and yellow levels - I don't know those numbers they use now). I saw a pinstripe version of an Astros cap and I actually thought it looked good!
I am trying to put together a new PC with VESA Local Bus. I would like to get VLB cards for Video and SCSI but I have heard of a problem with bus mastering controllers on VLB. Something to the effect that they will actually slow down a system. Anyone heard of this problem? Specifically, I am interested in the Ultrastor 34F VLB SCSI controller. Before I shell out the bucks for this thing I would like to get the straight scoop from someone who knows. Does anyone have this controller? Any problems with it? --
I don't know if some lemons are out there, but from personal experience My brother's has been trouble free. Not one single repair, only regular maintainance. The only work he had done on it was a result of his stupidity... he stopped suddenly in the middle of a left turn on a busy intersection, and was rear-ended. He has a 1989 Plymouth Sundance. I would recomend it, but I would also like to say that if you can wait about six months, ChryCo is coming out with a new car called the Neon, that is built in the same way as the LH's where. Good luck with your desiscion.
No, the argument says John has known Q, ie a codified version of the logia, and not the original, assuming that there has been one. It has weaknesses, of course, like that John might have known the original, yet rather referred to Q in his text, or that the logia were given in a codified version in the first place. The argument alone does not allow a firm conclusion, but it fits well into the dating usually given for the gospels. Not necessarily, Luke may have trusted the version he knew better than the version given by Matthew. Improving on Matthew would give a motive, for instance. As far as I know, the theory that Luke has known Matthew is based on a statistical analysis of the texts. Yep, but it will take another day or so to get the source. I hope your German is good enough. :-) I still do not see how copies from 200 allow to change the dating of John. Yes, but an if gives only possibilities and no evidence. The authencity of many letters is still discussed. It looks as if conclusions about them are not drawn because some pet dogmas of the churches would probably fall with them as well. Well, rather like some newsletter of a political party reporting from the big meeting. Not necessarily wrong, but certainly bad. Yes, but the accuracy of their tradition is another problem.
An open letter to Marc Afifi Dear Marc, I believe that you are wrong about Mr. Freeman. He has written in a style that raises the level of posts on this board. If you just don't seem to get it, I believe that it is more of a reflection of you and your abilities than of him. His posts contain substance and and he defends his positions well. Having said this, I would like to ask in general for people on this board to realize that if they don't agree with the substance of posts, then they should respond to the substance (or lack of) of the posts rather than attack the author of the posts. When one has to resort to attacking a poster rather than what he/she has written, one can see that that person does not have the ability to make a coherent argument concerning the post. Peace,
: >: >> Gilligan = Sloth : >: >> Skipper = Anger : >: >> Thurston Howell III = Greed : >: >> Lovey Howell = Gluttony : >: >> Ginger = Lust : >: >> Professor = Pride : >: >> Mary Ann = Envy : > : >Assorted Monkeys= Secular Humanism : : Assorted Headhunters - Godless, Heathen Savagery : Russian Agent who looks like Gilligan - Godless Communism : Japanese Sailor - Godless Barbarism : Walter Pigeon - Godless Bird Turd : The Mosquitos (Bingo, Bango, Bongo, Irving) - Godless Rock'n'Roll : Harold Heckuba (Phil Silvers) - Hollywood Hedonism : John McGiver - Butterfly flicking : Tonga, the Fake Apeman - Deceit, Lust : Eva Grubb - Deceit, lust
RE: Red, wwhite, and black, the colors of the Imperial German war-flag --
Here is the Colorado Rockies openning day cast: Pitchers -------- Scott Aldred (L) MLB Totals 31 games, 6-14, 5.08 ERA, 0 saves Andy Ashby (R) 18 games, 2-8, 6.72 ERA, 0 saves Willie Blair (R) 67 games, 10-15,4.57 ERA, 0 saves Butch Henry (L) 28 games, 6-9, 4.02 ERA, 0 saves Darren Holmes (R) 95 games, 5-9, 4.10 ERA, 9 saves David Neid (R) 6 games, 3-0, 1.17 ERA, 0 saves Jeff Parrett (R) 341 games, 46-30,3.65 ERA,21 saves Steve Reed (R) 18 games, 1-0, 2.30 ERA, 0 saves Bruce Ruffin (L) 223 games, 43-64,4.31 ERA, 3 saves Bryn Smith (R) 354 games,106-90,3.44 ERA, 6 saves Gary Wayne (L) 147 games, 8-8, 3.44 ERA, 3 saves The rest
its plate. may Well, there's a big difference between "just not swinging the bat well" and what the Reds are doing at the plate....UUUGGGHHHH!!!!! A Reds fan on the verge of a nervous breakdown.... --Mike "Why is it that the prognosis on Kevin Mitchell is 'Out 2-3 days' no matter what day you read it???" -Gary Burbank ------------------------------------------------------------------------ I've told you before and I'll tell you again. The strong survive and the weak disappear. We do not intend to disappear. ---Jimmy Hoffa mtissand@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu ------------------------------------------------------------------------
If she is having problems with fresh vegetables, the guess is that there is some obstruction of the intestine. Without knowing more it is not possible to say whether the obstruction is permanent due to scarring, or temporary due to swelling of inflammed intestine. In general, there are no dietary limitations in patients with Crohn's except as they relate to obstruction. There is no evidence that any foods will bring on recurrence of Crohn's. It is important to distinguish recurrence from recurrent symptoms. A physician would think of new inflammation as recurrence, while pains from raw veggies just imply a narrowing of the intestine. Your friend should look into membership in the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America. 1-800-932-2423 Good luck to your friend.
Have you ever met a chemist? A food industry businessman? You must personally know a lot of them for you to be able to be so certain that they are evil mosters whose only goal is to inflict as much pain and disease as possible into the general public. Gimme a break. person who is very sensitive to msg and whose wife and kids are Because it makes the food TASTE BETTER! Why does it put salt in food? Same reason. Obviously. Of course not! (Although I would think that a person like you would be a big fan of such recycling if that were the case). On occasion that's probably the case, but in general the idea is that MSG improves the flavor of certain foods. No. No. Obviously. As I recall, these are natural by-products of heating up certain foods. They don't "put it in there". have a number of criteria in choosing how to process food. They want to make it taste good, look good, sell for a good price, etc. The fact that they use it tells me that THEY think that it contributes to those goals they are interested in. One of those goals is NOT "making people sick". Such a goal woud quickly drive them out of business and for no benefit. Warning of what? In California there is a law requiring that ANYTHING which contains a carcinogen be labeled. That includes every gasline pump, most foods, and even money cleaning machines (because Nickel is a mild carcinogen). The result is that now nobody pays any attention to ANY of the warnings. Why? What if not 30% of people wanted to buy this ugly, rotten, not-as-tasty food? I guess it will just be wasted, huh? How terribly efficient. Because it makes food look better. I LIKE food that looks good. If vitamin companies want to do that it is fine, but who are you to tell THEM how to make vitamins? Who are you to tell ME whether I should buy flavored vitamins for my kids (who can't swallow the conventional ones whole). How do you define "junk"? Is putting "salt" in food bad? What about Pepper? What about alcohol as a preservative? What about sealing jars with wax? What about vinegar? You seem to think that "chemicals" are somehow different than "food". The fact is that all foods are 100% chemicals. You are just expressing an irrational prejudice against food processing.
GB> From: geb@cs.pitt.edu (Gordon Banks) GB> >(I am excepting migraine, which is arguably neurologic). GB> I hope you meant "inarguably". Given the choice, I would rather argue <g>. No arguments about migranous aura; in fact, current best evidence is that aura is intrinsicially neuronal (a la spreading depression of Leao) rather than vascular (something causing vasoconstriction and secondary neuronal ischemia). Migraine without aura, however, is a fuzzier issue. There do not seem to be objectively measurable changes in brain function. The Copenhagen mafia (Lauritzen, Olesen, et al) have done local CBF studies on migraine without aura, and (unlike migraine with aura, but like tension-type) they found no changes in LCBF. From one (absurd) perspective, *all* pain is neurologic, because in the absence of a nervous system, there would not be pain. From another (tautologic) perspective, any disease is in the domain of the specialty that treats it. Neurologists treat headache, therefore (at least in the USA) headache is neurologic. Whether neurologic or not, nobody would disagree that disabling headaches are common. Perhaps my fee-for-service neurologic colleagues, scrounging for cases, want all the headache patients they can get. Working on a salary, however, I would rather not fill my office with patients holding their heads in pain.
Dear Rob, Sometimes I do come across condesending, and I am sorry I come across that way at times. Thank you for the reproach, I really do appreciate it. I'll try to get better. Rob, at the same time, I have also learned that some people respond to the gentle approach while others respond only at a harsh rebuke. Brian K., so far, only responds to the latter. And I am glad he responds at all. In both cases of approach, my intention is to be loving. I am making no excuse for myself if I am coming across condesending. I apologize for that. Rob, sometimes Brian K. comes across as honest. I know this. But Brian K. vasillates back and forth. One post looks honest; the next is an excuse. Now he wants me to explain the universe in 50 words or less. I think Brian Kendig is really trying but he is too comfortable with his set of excuses. I just want Brian K. to be honest with himself. If he really wants to know, he will ask questions and stop asserting irrelevant excuses which have nothing to do with my God. I wish Brian would read the Bible for himself and come to his own decisions without being sidetracked with the temptation to mock God. From my perspective Rob, when I look at Brian Kendig, I see a man standing out in the middle of a highway. Off into the distance I see a Mack truck heading right for him, but Brian K. is faced away from the oncoming truck. He doesn't see it. Here's is how I see the dialog: Me: "Brian K, please step aside before you get run over." BK: "There is no truck." Me: "Turn around at look." BK: "No." Me: "Look! You will be healthier if you do take a look at the oncoming truck." BK: "No. Explain to me why trucks exist." Me: "Turn around or you will run over." BK: "No. I won't because I like hiking and tomorrow is Tuesday." Me: "You blind fool! Why do you choose ignorance? You have nothing to lose if you look. But if do not look, you will certainly lose your life." I do not want to see you squashed all over the road. BK: "It is my life to lose. I rather not look. Besides, a truck running over me will not harm me." And by the way, I really have an open mind." So is my motivation to belittle Brian, or to love Brian the best I know how? I do not wish to single Brian Kendig out. Because millions if not billions of people fall into the same category. Perhaps all people fall have fallen into this category at one time in their lives. I have. I can now see the truck behind Brian. My hope is that Brian will look and will see the ramifications of the truck coming towards him. My hope is that Brian will want to step out of the way. My fear, though, is that Brian will instead choose to glue himself to the middle of the highway, where he will certainly get run over. But if he so chooses, he so chooses, and there is nothing I can do beyond that to change his mind. For it is his choice. But at this very moment, Brian hasn't gotten even that far. He is still at the point where he does not want to look. Sure he moves his eyeball to appease me, but his head will not turn around to see the entire picture. So far he is satisfied with his glimpse of the mountains off in the distance.
Okay, I've received a whole lot of requests for the movie, so for simplicity's sake I can't mail out any more than I've already received (as of 16:30 EDT, Tuesday). Maybe it'll pop up on a site sooner or later.
Hi, we are just completing a project on nebuliser performance, and have a wealth of data on particle size and output which we are going to use to adjudicate a contract next week. Although the output data is easy for us to present, there seems to be little concensus on the optimum diameter of the nebulised droplets for straightforward inhalation therapy (eg: for asthmatics). Some say that the droplets must be smaller than 5 microns, whilst others say that if they are too small they will not be effective. Anyone up on this topic who could summarise the current status ? Cheers, Pete -- Pete Phillips, Deputy Director, Surgical Materials Testing Lab, Bridgend General Hospital, S. Wales. 0656-652166 pete@smtl.demon.co.uk
"Diet Evangelist". Good term. Fits Atkins to a "T". -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
There would be no problems as long as the OS didn't set up a DMA transfer to an area above the 16 mb area (the DMA controller probably can't be programmed that way anyways, so there probably isin't a problem with this)
Hi there, I am looking for advice on software/hardware package for making, storing and processing of pictures. The ideal software would allow me to cahnge size of the picture, edit it ( it means add text below, above...) and the most important is it would have DOS command interface... Thank you in advance... emanuel marciniak the bank of new york..
The problem if transffering US government files about Yigal Arens and some other similar persons does or does not violate a federal or a local American law seemed to belong to some local american law forum not to this forum. The readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents of those files. So It will be nice if Yigal will tell us: 1. Why do American authorities consider Yigal Arens to be dangerous? 2. Why does the ADL have an interest in that person ? 3. If one does trust either the US government or the ADL what an additional information should he send them ?
See, we are disagreeing on the definition of moral here. Earlier, you said that it must be a conscious act. By your definition, no instinctive behavior pattern could be an act of morality. You are trying to apply human terms to non-humans. I think that even if someone is not conscious of an alternative, this does not prevent his behavior from being moral. I try to show it, but by your definition, it can't be shown. And, morality can be thought of a large class of princples. It could be defined in terms of many things--the laws of physics if you wish. However, it seems silly to talk of a "moral" planet because it obeys the laws of phyics. It is less silly to talk about animals, as they have at least some free will.
There was a Science fiction movie sometime ago (I do not remember its name) about a planet in the same orbit of Earth but hidden behind the Sun so it could never be visible from Earth. Turns out that that planet was the exact mirror image of Earth and all its inhabitants looked like the Earthings with the difference that their organs was in the opposite side like the heart was in the right side instead in the left and they would shake hands with the left hand and so on... C.O.EGALON@LARC.NASA.GOV C.O.Egalon@larc.nasa.gov
Cup holders (driving is an importantant enough undertaking) Cellular phones and mobile fax machines (see above) Vanity mirrors on the driver's side. Ashtrays (smokers seem to think it's just fine to use the road) Fake convertible roofs and vinyl roofs. Any gold trim.
At the Lester Patrick Awards lunch, Bill Torrey mentioned that one of his options next season is to be president of the Miami team, with Bob Clarke working for him. At the same dinner, Clarke said that his worst mistake in Philadelphia was letting Mike Keenan go -- in retrospect, almost all players came realize that Keenan knew what it took to win. Rumours are now circulating that Keenan will be back with the Flyers. Nick Polano is sick of being a scapegoat for the schedule made for the Red Wings; After all, Bryan Murray approved it. Gerry Meehan and John Muckler are worried over the Sabres' prospects; Assistant Don Lever says that the Sabres have to get their share now, because a Quebec dynasty is emerging ... The Mighty Ducks have declared that they will not throw money around loosely to buy a team. Oilers coach Ted Green remarked that "There some guys around who can fill Tie Domi's skates, but none who can fill his helmet." Senators' Andrew McBain told off a security guard at Chicago Stadium who warned him of the stairs leading down to the locker room; McBain mouthed off at him, after all being a seasoned professional ... and tumbled down the entire steep flight. gld
: I have 19 (2 MB worth!) uuencode'd GIF images contain charts outlining : one of the many alternative Space Station designs being considered in : Crystal City. [...] I just posted the GIF files out for anonymous FTP on server ics.uci.edu. You can retrieve them from: ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode01.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode02.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode03.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode04.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode05.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode06.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode07.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode08.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode09.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode10.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode11.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode12.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode13.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode14.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode15.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode16.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geode17.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geodeA.gif ics.uci.edu:incoming/geodeB.gif The last two are scanned color photos; the others are scanned briefing charts. These will be deleted by the ics.uci.edu system manager in a few days, so now's the time to grab them if you're interested. Sorry it took me so long to get these out, but I was trying for the Ames server, but it's out of space. -- Ken Jenks, NASA/JSC/GM2, Space Shuttle Program Office kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (713) 483-4368
True 914 enthusiasts will be able to give you a better answer then this but I'll dump my impressions. I've wanted to own a 914 for about 10 years now; came close once but I ended up buying a Fiero instead (biggest mistake of my life!) Anyway, for $4000 you should be able to get a nice car but your also set in the price range to get taken by a nice looker that is a pile of shit. The most common total failure for the car would be frame rust between the engine and passenger compartment. Also look for chassis welded together here. Oh yeah, the price range you are talking about must be the 4 banger; a 6 (if you could find one) would be mucho more bucks. Parts for the engine are pretty easy to come by (for an old car) and you can even locate crude in the JC Whitney catalog if you have too. The machine itself is pretty simple (they use the spare tire for windshild washer instead of a pump fer chris sake!) so getting it fixed by a good bug/porsche mechanic would be easy. Since it is mid-engine you may spend more on labor for any mechanical work.
Hey what does the A/Rose extension do anyway ? Michael
Leonard, I'll give you an example of this.... My father recently bought a business, the business price was 150,000 pounds and my father approached the people in the community for help, he raised 60,000 pounds in interest free loans from friends and relatives and Muslims he knew, 50,000 had cash and the rest he got a business loan, after paying off the Muslim lenders many of them helped him with further loans to help him clear the bank debt and save him from further intrest, this is an example of a Muslim community helping one another, why did they help because of their common identity as Muslims. In turn my father has helped with people buying houses to minimise the amount of intrest they pay and in some cases buy houses intrest free with the help of those more fortunate in the community. The fact is Leonard it DOES work without a fluffy bunny in sight! iThat is the beauty of Islam. Mas
The fourth edition is out, too. But it's probably also not very high on UCB's "gotta have that" list.
Well, 42 is 101010 binary, and who would forget that its the answer to the Question of "Life, the Universe, and Everything else." That is to quote Douglas Adams in a round about way. Of course the Question has not yet been discovered... -- Mark A. Cartwright, N5SNP University of Texas @ Austin Computation Center, Graphics Facility markc@emx.utexas.edu markc@sirius.cc.utexas.edu markc@hermes.chpc.utexas.edu (512)-471-3241 x 362 PP-ASEL 9-92
You may also want to buy a 'self injector' or something like that. My friend is diabetic. You load the hyperdermic, put it in a plastic case and set a spring to automatically push the needle into the skin and depress the plunger. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Live From New York, It's SATURDAY NIGHT...
Archer> How about "Interactive Sex with Madonna"? or "Sexium" for short. /Lars
The reason I'm posting this article to this newsgroup is to: 1. gather any information about this disorder from anyone who might have recently been *e*ffected by it ( from being associated with it or actually having this disorder ) and 2. help me find out where I can access any medical literature associated with seizures over the internet. Recently, I had a baby boy born with seizures which occured 12-15 hours after birth. He was immediately transferred to a major hospital in Boston and has since been undergoing extensive drug treatment for his condition. This has been a major learning experience for me and my wife not only in learning the medical problems that faced our son but also in dealing with hospitals, procedures...etc. I don't want to go into a lot of detail, but his condition was termed quite severe at first then slowly he began to grow and put on weight as a normal baby would. He was put on the standard anti-convulsion drugs and that did not seem to help out. His MRI, EKG, cat-scans are all normal, but the EEG's show alot of seizure activity. After many metabolic tests, body structure tests, and infection/virus tests the doctors still do not know quite what type of siezures he is having (although they do have alot of evidence that it is now pointing to infantile spasms ). This is where we stand right now....
Time for some spring cleaning, so the following items are up for sale: Roland MT-32 Multi-Timbre Sound module. LA synthesis, upto 32 simultaneous voices, 128 preset timbres, 20-char backlit LCD display, MIDI in/out/thru, reference card, stereo output, etc Great for games that support it (music on the MT32 is far superior to any sound card), experimenting with MIDI, or for adding additional sounds to your MIDI setup. $235 + shipping Canon RC-250 Xapshot still video camera system. Includes: camera, carrying pouch, battery pack, battery charger, ac adapter, video cables, two 2.5" floppies (each disk holds 50 pictures for 100 pics total), manuals, etc Video output is standard NTSC composite and can be sent to any NTSC device (e.g. to a television for direct viewing of your pictures, to a VCR to record a slideshow, to a computer video digitizer to save/manipulate the pictures on a computer system) $295 + shipping Ambico Video Enhancer/Audio Mixer Three-line stereo audio mixer with microphone input and master volume slider w/video enhancer to boost & sharpen video images when dubbing from VCR->VCR, camcorder->VCR, etc $38 + shipping 2400 baud PC internal modem $25 + shipping Quantum 105MB 3.5" internal ProDrive hard disk This unit has recently turned unreliable and erratic in usage. Could be a simple easily fixed problem or a major problem, but at any rate I don't have the time to find out where the problem lies. If you want to take a risk on it, you can have it for $45 + shipping. If interested in any of the above items, please Email me.
You have a lot more problems keeping up with hardware interrupts in Windows than in DOS - regardless of what communication software you are using. Try the following: 1) Turn off disk write cache for the disk you are downloading to. The cache will save up so much that when it grabs control of the machine it takes too long to write to disk and you loose characters. 2) Use a different UART for your serial line. The old UART's (8250 or 16450) can only buffer one character internally. The new UART's (16550) can buffer 16, which should be plenty for most situations. You can run \windows\msd.exe to find out what UART is on the machine.
The Apollo program cost something like $25 billion at a time when the value of a dollar was worth more than it is now. No one would take the offer.
hi folks i have 2 hd first is an seagate 130mb the second a cdc 340mb (with a future domain no ram) i'd like to change my 2 controller ide & scsi and buy a new one with ram (at least 1mb) that could controll all of them any companies? how many $? and is it possible via hw or via sw select how divide the ram cache for 2 hd? (for example using dos that is about all on one hd i'd like to reserve ram cache just to it)
If you haven't heard yet, US Senator Patty Murrey, a Mom in tennis shoes, is planning to introduce legislation to tax all handgun transactions and increase dealer licnese costs in order to raise money to cover the costs of un-insured shooting victums. She plans to start with $2500.00 per year dealer fees and $40.00 or so, depending on the type of firearm, per gun transaction. She plans to make it federal. She was elected in Washington state under the trade mark as just a mom in tennis shoes. She can be written to via the United States Senate, Washinton DC. She is looking for your tennis shoes. So if you have a pair please send them to her with your feelings regarding this tax. She claims she has heard little from the opposition. Lets inundate her!
Read Issue #2 of Wired Magazine. It has a long article on the "hype" of 3DO. I've noticed that every article talks with the designers and how "great" it is, but never show any pictures of the output (or at least pictures that one can understand)
From: "Phil G. Fraering" <pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu> > Finally: this isn't the Bronze Age, [..] > please try to remember that there are more human activities than > those practiced by the Warrior Caste, the Farming Caste, and the > Priesthood. Right, the Profiting Caste is blessed by God, and may freely blare its presence in the evening twilight .. The Priesthood has never quite forgiven the merchants (aka Profiting Caste [sic]) for their rise to power, has it? ;-)
Just to inform the readers of newsrc Sony has just introduced a new DATman, the TCD-D7 which is smaller and less expensive than the D3. Also, the D7 has a coaxial jack which the D3 lacks. Oh, the D3 has always been available through mail-order houses for less than $700 dollars new... with the new model coming out, I suspect the now obsolete D3 will be selling for even less.
And the two simplest refutations are these: (1) What impact? The only record of impact comes from the New Testament. I have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate, and that the recorded "impact" actually happened. I find it interesting that no other contemporary source records an eclipse, an earthquake, a temple curtain being torn, etc. The earliest written claim we have of Jesus' resurrection is from the Pauline epistles, none of which were written sooner than 20 years after the supposed event. (2) It seems probable that no one displayed the body of Jesus because no one knew where it was. I personally believe that the most likely explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples, or by graverobbers). Don't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one gospel, and seems like exactly the sort of thing early Christians might make up in order to counter the grave-robbing charge. The New Testament does record that Jews believed the body had been stolen. If there were really guards, they could not have effectively made this claim, as they did.
... Of course you never read Arab media, I read Arab, ISRAELI (Jer. Post, and this network is more than enough) and Western (American, French, and British) reports and I can say that if we give Israel -10 and Arabs +10 on the bias scale (of course you can switch the polarities) Israeli newspapers will get either a -9 or -10, American leading newspapers and TV news range from -6 to -10 (yes there are some that are more Israelis than Israelis) The Montreal suburban (a local free newspaper) probably is closer to Kahane's views than some Israeli right wing newspapers, British range from 0 (neutral) to -10, French (that Iknow of, of course) range from +2 (Afro-french magazines) to -10, Arab official media range from 0 to -5 (Egyptian) to +9 in SA. Why no +10? Because they do not want to overdo it and stir people against Israel and therefore against them since they are doing nothing. the average bias of what you read would be probably around -9, while that of the average American would be the same if they do not read or read the new-york times and similar News-makers, and -8 if they read some other RELATIVELY less biased newspapers.
I recently attended an allery seminar. Steroid Nasal sprays were discussed. Afterward on a one-on-one basis, I asked the speaker what if none of the Vancanese, Beconase, Nasalide, Nasalcort, or Nasalchrom work nor do any oral decongestants work. She replied that she saw an article on Vasomotor Rhinitis. That this is not an allergic reaction and that nothing other than the Afrin's and such would work. (Which in my case is true). I want to find out as much as possible about this, since I am going to see my allergist in May and want to be armed to the hilt with information; since nothing he has done with me has helped me at all and I have had no relief for 14 months.
You can go to the DMV and ask for their listing. Although I don't know where you may actually buy a copy, you can use theirs for your perusal. In California, the listing of personalized license plates run 3 volumes, each about 1.5" thick. I hope this is what you're asking for. Ken
I'll probably get flamed for this, but when I was a kid we would go to my uncles cabin on Middle Bass Island on Lake Erie. We always came home with a nasty case of jiggers (large red bumps where the buggers had burrowed into the skin). My mother would paint the bumps with clear finger nail polish. This was repeated daily for about a week or so. The application of the polish is supposed to suffocate them as it seals of the skin. All I can say is it worked for us. One word of caution though. Putting finger nail polish on a jigger bite stings like hell. (If I do get flamed for this just put jam in my pockets and call me toast.:)
This is probably the best part of your post. Everything else is shrill speculation.
I appreciated the follow-ups and replies to my earlier query. One reply, which I have lost, suggested several parishes in New York that have good Masses, one of which was Corpus Christi in downtown Manhattan. By coincidence, last week's _America_, the national Jesuit magazine, carried an interview with Fr. Myles Bourke, Corpus Christi's pastor emeritus. Fr. Bourke also directed the NT translation in the New American Bible. He noted "...certain practices have been introduced into the Mass in such a manner that an atmosphere of banality, and sometimes of hilarity, has trivialized the liturgy." I note that at my parents' parish on Easter, helium filled balloons were distributed at the offertory, apparently to aid in understanding the word "risen". This was not a kiddie mass, either, but the well-attended 11:00 Mass. I wanted to note the generous spirit behind the replies. This newsgroup as a whole offers generally moderate (perhaps because it's moderated) conversation on topics that often lead people to extreme behavior (including myself). Sometimes people do go over the top, but the remarkable thing is how that is the exception, I think. Benefits of the doubt are generally granted. It seems so...Christian?
Any suggestions as to what a better solution might be? I realize the off-hand nature of the numbers I used. And I can't answer as to what an acceptable loss rate is. However, as I said in another post, I despise the idea of supporting criminals for life. It's the economics of the situation that concern me most. The money spent feeding, clothing, housing and taking care of people who have demonstrated that they are unfit to live in society could go to a number of places, all of which I, and probably others, would consider far more worthwhile and which would enrish the lives of all Americans. Give people jobs, give the homeless shelter. Any number of things. Clyde
If we do, I think you'd loose. Sure, you're hand's already on the throttle. And your thumb is already near the horn button. Pushing the horn button is one simple move. Revving the throttle requires either engaging the clutch, or accelerating. The first is a more complex manuver than a simple horn button push, and the second ain't too bright when there is a potential hazard ahead. Besides, the unique sound of a horn is more effective in attracting the attention of BDI cagers than is the sound of an engine, which is what they expect to hear (you are on the road!). As is usually the case, a single anecdote hardly constitutes sound safety procedure. The answer is 161.33 feet.
It is interesting that you posted those lyrics, because just the other day I was thinking of doing the same. I like those lyrics, since whenever I am approached by judgemental, pharisitical, evangelical fundamentalists who throw the Bible at me because I have long hair, wear a black leather jacket, and listen to Black Sabbath, I have something to throw back. Usually their chins drop and they come up speechless over those not very satanic lyrics. It just goes to show that there are more important evils in the world to battle than rock lyrics...........
I would recommend "Essential Truthes of the Christian Faith" by RC Sproul. It is copywrited 1992 from Tyndale House Publishers. Sproul offers concise explanations, in simple language, of around 100 different Christian doctrines, grouped by subject. I think it would be particularly good for newer Christians (and older Christians suffering spiritual malnutrition), as it gives a Biblically sound basic treatment of the issues, avoiding long in-depth analysis that can wait until after you know the basics.
Check out the May issue of MacWorld; the new servers are on the cover. Should be at your favorite newstand.
My votes (FWIW): Team MVP: Pat Verbeek. He fans on 25% of goal mouth feeds, but he still has 36 goals after a terrible start and has been an examplary (sp?) team captain throughout a tough couple of seasons. Honorable mention: Nick Kypreos and Mark Janssens. Probably more appropriate in the unsung heroes category than MVP, but Kypreos (17 goals, 320+ PIM) has been the hardest working player on the team and Janssens is underrated as a defensive center and checker. I guess I place a greater emphasis on hard work than skill when determining value. Biggest surprise: Geoff Sanderson. He had 13 goals and 31 points last season as a center, then moved to left wing and has so far put up 45 goals and 80+ points. He now has a new Whaler record 21 power play goals, most all coming from the right wing faceoff circle, his garden spot. Honorable mention: Andrew Cassels and Terry Yake. The kiddie quartet of Sanderson, Poulin, Nylander, and Petrovicky have been attracting the most attention, but Cassels is just 23 and will score close to 90 points this season. He has quite nicely assumed the role of number one center on the team and works very well with Sanderson. Yake bounced around the minors for a number of seasons but is still 24 and will put up about 20 goals and 50 points this season. Yake, like Sanderson, started performing better offensively once he was converted from center to wing, although lefty Sanderson went to the left wing and righty Yake went to the right side. Biggest disappointment: Hands down, John Cullen. Cullen had a disasterous 77 point season last year, his first full season after The Trade. Cullen started the season off of summer back surgery, and fell flat on his face (appropriate, since he spent all of his Whaler career flat on his ass, and whining about it). Cullen scored just 9 point on 19 games, was a clubhouse malcontent, commanded the powerplay to a 9% success percentage (>21% with Sanderson), and sulked his way out of town. Worst of all, his 4 year, $4M contract had three years left to run, so no one would give up any more than the 2nd round draft pick the Maple Leafs offered to Hartford. Honorable mention: Steve Konroyd, also subpar after signing a 3 year, $2.1M contract; Eric Weinrich, who showed flashes of competence, but overall has played poorly; Jim McKenzie, who was a much better hockey player two seasons ago than he is now; and Frank Pietrangelo, who only seemed to play well when Sean Burke was out for an extended period and he got to make a number of starts in a row.
I participated in a promotion by a company called Visual Images. I attempted to cancel my order before the package arrived. I was not able to stop them and now I have a package which I do not need. Nishika 3D camera, wide angle flesh, film, carring case, instruction tapes, and some jewelrys. 3 vacation vouchers to Bahama, Cancun, Las Vegas, Orlando. I paid $697 for the promotion package, and the vacation vouchers came as gift. I really want to sell them, so make me an offer for the whole package. If you are participating in a award, $697 is how much you would end up paying. And I strongly believe that you would get the same award as I do. If you are interested in those items, you could get them from me for a cheaper price. Let me know, and make me an offer. No flames please, I have got enough. You could reach me at koutd@hirama.hiram.edu
An is readable by WinGif, Paintshop Pro, Paint, and god knows how many other programs.
12/12 Armenian Atrocities MOSCOW (AP) -- Azerbaijani forces on Saturday retook three villages seized by Armenians and discovered 16 bodies of executed civilians, Azerbaijani reports said. The Azerbaijani fighters found 16 bodies of civilians, including those of a child and two elderly women who were shot point-blank, "and survivors were killed by a shot to the back of the head," said a ministry statement, carried by the Azerbaijani Azerinform and Turan news agencies and the ITAR-Tass news service. "Everywhere Armenian occupants were, they left tens of corpses of civilians shot to death point-blank and mutilated," the... Serdar Argic
My BBB Autoline arbitration experience is over. The outcome was decidedly mixed. I won the battle but lost the war. The arbitrator found that the car was defective, but decided to offer a repurchase well below market value :(. At the time of the hearing, average retail on my truck in the NADA book was $21,025, but the decision was for $17,665. I wrote a letter to the Council of Better Business Bureaus pointing out the fact that if you have an automobile that does not depreciate rapidly, the manufacturer has no incentive to deal with you. There is no way that the manufacturer can loose because they can turn around and sell the vehicle at a profit if the consumer is awarded a repurchase. The attitude of Chevrolet's representative at the hearing tends to support this point of view; he was totally unprepared and did not seem to take the proceeding very seriously. I decided to take the repurchase, even though I am getting totally screwed on the price. I will not have to deal with continuing repairs or selling a lemon myself, and I have no case for a civil suit based on the Idaho lemon law. I am planning to send a letter to my elected representatives telling them how utterly ridiculous the Idaho lemon law is. The law allows for a "use deduction" equal to the IRS mileage allowance. As if Chevrolet were buying my gas and paying for my insurance. Summary of the case: In May 1992 I bought a new 3/4 ton HD Chevrolet pickup. Between May 1992 and December 1992 this vehicle required repair after repair. Systems that required attention included the transmission, heater fan, paint, suspension, and motor. The main problem was the five speed manual transmission. They could not install a non-defective transmission in at least four attempts. So, in summary, it is possible to get a repurchase, but you are going to get screwed on the price, unless you paid too much in the first place, or if your car happens to be a model that depreciates rapidly.
ok, i have a 486dx50(ISA) w/ Diamond Stealth VRAM 1MB. I was really satisfied w/ its performance in windows. but now more and more games needs higher frame rates in DOS' VGA, especially this new Strike Commander. ;-) this stealth vram can only give me 17.5 fps. ;-( (i use 3dbench). my winmark was 6.35 million, i think. so right now i'm considering to replace it w/ a new card, which hopefully can perform approx same w/ my current VRAM in windows and also can perform DOS' VGA preferably >30fps. i also saw the 3dbench benchmark list from someone who compiled it in csipg and it looked that SpeedStar 24X and Orchid Prodesigner 2d-s ware the fastest for non local bus motherboard. both can give >30fps in DOS' VGA w/ 486dx2/66. Does anyone have a winmarks for both of those cards above with the processor type ? which one is the worthiest(not necessarily fastest)? any other card recommendation is welcomed too. also, if possible, where can i get 'this' card for the cheapest? ;-) thanks in advance, folks!
Some VESA bios's support this mode (0x100). And *any* VGA should be able to support this (640x480 by 256 colors) since it only requires 256,000 bytes. My 8514/a VESA TSR supports this; it's the only VESA mode by card can support due to 8514/a restrictions. (A WD/Paradise)
I hope this will clear it up : (Taken from one of my lecture notes) " ... The alternative approach (to CISC), which has been adopted by many in recent years, has come to be known as "RISC": the Reduced Instruction Set Computer. This can be characterised simply as "Simpler is Faster"; by simplifying the design (e.g. by reducing the variety of instructions & addressing modes), the hardware can be designed to run faster. Even at the cost of needing more instructions, the same task can be done more quickly by the simpler, faster design. A typical RISC processor will: o provide a large number of registers (e.g. 32); o perform all data operations on registers; o provide few addressing modes (e.g. immediate or 'register + offset'); o only allow load & store operations to access memory; o only use a few instruction formats; o only support a few data types (e.g. integer, unsigned, floating).
I've asked your god several times with all my heart to come to me. I really wish I could believe in him, 'cos no matter how much confidence I build up on my own, the universe *is* a big place, and it would be so nice to know I have someone watching over me in it... I've gone into this with an open mind. I've layed my beliefs aside from time to time when I've had doubt, and I've prayed to see what good that would do. I don't see what more I can do to open myself to your god, short of just deciding to believe for no good reason. And if I decide to believe for no good reason, why not believe in some other god? Zeus seems like a pretty cool candidate... All I know is that in all my searching, even though I've set aside my pride and decided that I want to know the truth no matter how difficult it may be to accept, I have never had any encounter with any deity, Christian or otherwise. Please tell me what more I can do while still remaining true to myself.
Hi, Can somebody tell me how much is Canon BJ200? And from where can I buy it for the cheapest price? Thanks in advance..
April 16, 1993 INITIAL EFF ANALYSIS OF CLINTON PRIVACY AND SECURITY PROPOSAL The Clinton Administration today made a major announcement on cryptography policy which will effect the privacy and security of millions of Americans. The first part of the plan is to begin a comprehensive inquiry into major communications privacy issues such as export controls which have effectively denied most people easy access to robust encryption, and law enforcement issues posed by new technology. However, EFF is very concerned that the Administration has already reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry, before any public comment or discussion has been allowed. Apparently, the Administration is going to use its leverage to get all telephone equipment vendors to adopt a voice encryption standard developed by the National Security Agency. The so-called "Clipper Chip" is an 80-bit, split key escrowed encryption scheme which will be built into chips manufactured by a military contractor. Two separate escrow agents would store users' keys, and be required to turn them over law enforcement upon presentation of a valid warrant. The encryption scheme used is to be classified, but the chips will be available to any manufacturer for incorporation into its communications products. This proposal raises a number of serious concerns . First, the Administration has adopted a solution before conducting an inquiry. The NSA-developed Clipper Chip may not be the most secure product. Other vendors or developers may have better schemes. Furthermore, we should not rely on the government as the sole source for the Clipper or any other chips. Rather, independent chip manufacturers should be able to produce chipsets based on open standards. Second, an algorithm cannot be trusted unless it can be tested. Yet, the Administration proposes to keep the chip algorithm classified. EFF believes that any standard adopted ought to be public and open. The public will only have confidence in the security of a standard that is open to independent, expert scrutiny. Third, while the use of the use of a split-key, dual escrowed system may prove to be a reasonable balance between privacy and law enforcement needs, the details of this scheme must be explored publicly before it is adopted. What will give people confidence in the safety of their keys? Does disclosure of keys to a third party waive an individual's Fifth Amendment rights in subsequent criminal inquiries? These are but a few of the many questions the Administrations proposal raised but fails to answer. In sum, the Administration has shown great sensitivity to the importance of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into digital privacy and security. However, the "Clipper Chip" solution ought to be considered as part of the inquiry, and not be adopted before the discussion even begins. DETAILS OF THE PROPOSAL: ESCROW The 80-bit key will be divided between two escrow agents, each of whom hold 40-bits of each key. The manufacturer of the communications device would be required to register all keys with the two independent escrow agents. A key is tied to the device, however, not the person using it. Upon presentation of a valid court order, the two escrow agents would have to turn the key parts over to law enforcement agents. According to the Presidential Directive just issued, the Attorney General will be asked to identify appropriate escrow agents. Some in the Administration have suggested that one non-law enforcement federal agency (perhaps the Federal Reserve), and one non-governmental organization could be chosen, but there is no agreement on the identity of the agents yet. CLASSIFIED ALGORITHM AND THE POSSIBILITY OF BACK DOORS The Administration claims that there are no back doors -- means by which the government or others could break the code without securing keys from the escrow agents -- and that the President will be told there are no back doors to this classified algorithm. In order to prove this, Administration sources are interested in arranging for an all-star crypto cracker team to come in, under a security arrangement, and examine the algorithm for trap doors. The results of the investigation would then be made public. The Clipper Chipset was designed and is being produced and a sole-source, secret contract between the National Security Agency and two private firms: VLSI and Mycotronx. NSA work on this plan has been underway for about four years. The manufacturing contract was let 14 months ago. GOVERNMENT AS MARKET DRIVER In order to get a market moving, and to show that the government believes in the security of this system, the feds will be the first big customers for this product. Users will include the FBI, Secret Service, VP Al Gore, and maybe even the President. At today's Commerce Department press briefing, a number of people asked this question, though: why would any private organization or individual adopt a classified standard that had no independent guaranty of security or freedom from trap doors? COMPREHENSIVE POLICY INQUIRY The Administration has also announced that it is about to commence an inquiry into all policy issues related to privacy protection, encryption, and law enforcement. The items to be considered include: export controls on encryption technology and the FBI's Digital Telephony Proposal. It appears that the this inquiry will be conducted by the National Security Council. Unfortunately, however, the Presidential Directive describing the inquiry is classified. Some public involvement in the process has been promised, but they terms have yet to be specified. FROM MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: Jerry Berman, Executive Director (jberman@eff.org) Daniel J. Weitzner, Senior Staff Counsel (djw@eff.org) Full text of the Press releases and Fact Sheets issued by the Administration will be available on EFF's ftp site.
Only as far as it affects the crime rate. Did the RATE of crime fall? If not, the ban was of no use. It is the rate of violent crime that matters, not the tools used. "It's the crime, stupid!" Apparently that became the weapon of choice after the shotguns were banned. After that, they'll decide the car of choice is the Saab, and propose a ban on that! Yes. We still trust honest people here. For the time being. -- jmd@handheld.com
As you point out, the experiments would be difficult. But we know enough about the physics of the situation to do some calculations. There are in fact three effects contributing to leaning the bike over to begin a turn. 1. Gyro effect causing a torque which twists the bike over. 2. Contact patch having shifted to one side, causing bike to fall over. 3. Contact patch being accelerated to the side, causing a torque which twists the bike over. Take an average bike/rider, average bike wheel, and at speeds of 5, 15, and 50 mph (say) calculate how much twist of the bars would be needed to produce (say) 20 degrees of lean in (say) 2 seconds by each effect alone. My guess is that at slow speeds 2 is dominant, and at high speeds 3 is dominant, and at all speeds 1 contributes not far off bugger all, relatively speaking. By the way, a similar problem is this: how does a runner who wants to run round a corner get leaned into the corner fast? Is there a running group where we could start "counter-footing" arguments and have them all falling over as they tried to work out how they go round corners?
/(hudson) /If all morality were relative- big hairy deal. As I said, you appear to be the only person saying that all morality is relative. Most people I know do hold some absolutes in their moral system. I >>personally<< believe that the dignity of the individual and the right of free will are absolutes. I recognize that there are some moral systems around which don't accept this; I reject them as dangerous and anti-social (nazism, some forms of communism, fundamentalist xtianity--no, that's not a slam). But for the most part, almost every moral system agrees on these two points. (me) /(hudson) /Generally, Christians believe in a Creator-Creation distinction. Other /religions believe in one big whole. I don't accept yor premises. Too bad. I know I'm right, so I get to enforce my view upon you whether you like my premise or not. And since you can't prove otherwise, there isn't even an intellectual basis for your resistance to accepting my viewpoint. /(hudson) /I don't think so. once morality becomes relative, it degenerates. I am /saying that reasoning that it is generally evil to hurt other people is bad. /(though I don't think it is sufficient.) Well, then answer me this: you seem to be opposed to moral relativism (as you call it) because it has the capacity to degenerate. Obviously, then, you would advocate a nonrelative (absolute) moral system. Whose absolutist moral system do we choose? How do we come to this decision? What about people who disagree with the chosen moral system? /(hudson) /But if morality is considered to /be relative, and this rule isn't based on anything, but is just an arbitrary /rule, people might abandon it. Fine. I can agree with most of what you typed here. However, just because morality gets based on something nonrelative does NOT mean that we have to pick your xtianity as its base.
The rights guaranteed by the Constitution were considered to be pre-existing. The only agreement was that they exist. Therefore, no law grants such rights. Laws can only guarantee, protect, or infringe such rights. Websters Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged 1986 infringe 1.a. to break down:DESTROY b. DEFEAT, FRUSTRATE c. CONFUTE, REFUTE d. IMPAIR, WEAKEN 2. to commit a breach of : neglect to fulfill or obey : VIOLATE, TRANSGRESS vi : ENCROACH, TRESPASS infringement 1. the act of infringing : BREACH, VIOLATION, NONFULFILLMENT 2. an encroachment or trespass on a right or priveledge : TRESPASS ~~~~~ Now, by what stretch of the imagination do you get your ideas about infringement of rights?
I agree with this assessment. Furthermore, its promotion as providing greater protection than bare voice is quite true, as far as it goes. However, the only way for it to fulfill its stated goal of letting LE wiretap "terrorists and drug dealers" is to restrict stronger techniques. Wiretap targets presently use strong encryption, weak encryption, or (the vast majority) no encryption. The latter two classes can be tapped. With weak encryption in every phone, the no-encryption class is merged into the weak-encryption class. Will the introduction of Clipper cause targets presently enjoying strong privacy to give up on it? that is, to rely for privacy on a system expressly designed to deny it to people like them? I doubt it. The mere introduction of this scheme will give the government *nothing*. The stated goal of preventing the degradation of wiretapping capabilities can be fulfilled by restriction of domestic cryptography, and only by this restriction. "Clipper" appears to be no more than a sop, given to the public to mute any complaints. We would find this a grossly inadequate tradeoff, but I fear the public at large will not care. I hate to even mention gun control, but most people seem to think that an `assault weapon' (as the NYT uses the word) is some sort of automatic weapon, .50 caliber maybe. Who wants to have such a thing legal? Well, people know even less about cryptology; I suspect that strong cryptography could easily be labeled "too much secrecy for law-abiding citizens to need". What they say is opinion, but what they do is what matters, and will continue unless overturned. And the courts are reluctant to annul law or regulation, going to some length to decide cases on other grounds. Furthermore, Congress can get away with quite a bit. They could levy a burdensome tax; this would place enforcement in the hands of the BATF, who as we've seen you really don't want on your case. They could invoke the Commerce Clause; this seems most likely. This clause will get you anywhere these days. The 18th was required because the Supreme Court ruled a prohibitory statute unconstitutional. In 1970 Congress prohibited many drugs, with a textual nod to the Commerce Clause. The Controlled Substances Act of 1970 still stands. I think the government could get away with it.
I thought this was a neat feature until I noticed that when an image is re-sized, the scanning frequency is necessarily changed. This causes digital multiscan monitors like my MAG MX17F to get confused as to which mode to use if the frequency gets too far from the standard selections. For this reason, I use the "factory defaults" for position/size on the ATI card and adjust each mode individually (only the first time) at the monitor. The MAG (and many other multiscan monitors) has (have) the ability to recall these settings the next time each mode is "detected". -- =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
I will add my voice to the (hopefully) growing multitudes. I hereby pledge $1000.00 towards the purchase of CNN, under the same conditions as already described. I will also post this idea on the other nets I can access (RIME and Libernet). We may have to organize this ourselves, so I am looking for help.
Deuteronmy 20:13 And when the Lord thy God hath delivered it into thine hands, thou shalt smite every male thereof with the edge of the sword Joshua 6:21 And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, bith man and women, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of the sword.
: : Of course, penalties will have to be changed: : : Roughing: Chauvanistic Males Being Aggressive : Slashing: Chauvanistic Males Venting Frustration : Fighting: Proof That Males Cannot Cope With Their Feelings : NO NO NO! since all the penalties fall into three classes, there should only be three penalties: 1. Foul (Any illegal contact with the other player or his stick with your body or stick). If you get 5 you are out for the game. 2. Unsportsmanlike contact. (An intentional foul). This inlcludes all the current flavours of roughing, fighting and boarding. If you get two you are thrown out of the game, and fined. 3. Technical foul. Bad mouthing the ref, by player or coach. Penalty shot is awarded. Two and you are thrown out of the game. Besides the penalty shot for one technical, if the team gets 5 penalties in a period, the opposing team gets a penalty shot for every additional one, until the end of the period. The victim gets two shots if he/she was in the act of shooting when the foul ocured. This works well for several reasons. First, penalty shots are the most exciting thing in hockey, right? So, it follows that the more the better. Next, when the player is setting up for a penalty shot, the network can take a commercial. Finally, with only three penalties, the network announcers (Don Meredith, Dick Vitale, John Madden, Pat Summerall, and Marv Levy, among others) will be able to tell the viewers what happened before the PA announcer says it. Oh, one other rule. When a goal is scored (10-20 times a period), the play cannot resume until the PA announcer announces it. This way, the network can sneak in a few more commercials. Then, once the PA announcer has told them who scored, the TV announcer can tell you the viewer, and even have a chance of pronouncing his name right. Seriously, though, I actually went to see a NBA basketball game last week, for the first time in my life. I was amazed how boring it was. The play is so slow they actually had fans come out for things like free-throw shooting contests DURING THE PERIOD!. Of course the 'Laker Girls' get to do their routines at least 6-8 times during the game, and not just between periods either. There is a whistle every 30 seconds on average, maybe less. The game is 48 minutes, with 2 minutes between quarters 1-2 and 3-4 and a 10 minute halftime, and it still takes over 2 hours. The reason for this has to be TV. There is plenty of room to throw in commercials, and have the announcer jabber while nothing else is happening. On TV, basketball is fairly entertaining, IMHO. But, it is better to watch it on TV than to be there. If this is the road the NHL is following, then it truly is a sad day. Enough for now.
There are some things you might be interested to know about today's RISC processors. It is true that there are fewer instructions, but what is not commonly known is that this causes the size of your executables to swell, so that in some cases performance is similar for larger applications. As a compromise, many RISC processors today are actually a cross between a Reduced Instructions Set, and a Complex one. This is not to say that there is no future in CISC processors, Intel has certainly proved that. What I want to know, is what does this have to do with this group? -dave Subject: Re: WP-PCF, Linux, RISC? Newsgroups: comp.unix.dos-under-unix,comp.sys.ibm.pc.misc,comp.sys.ibm.pc.net,comp.os.ms-windows.apps,comp.os.ms-windows.misc,alt.uu.comp.os.linux.questions,comp.apps.spreadsheets,comp.misc,alt.os.linux,comp.os.linux,man.linux References: <1qu8ud$2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au> From article <1qu8ud$2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au>, by eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au:
It seems to me that all discussions about Clipper security are almost irrelevant - if I cannot choose the key, but have to use a key chosen for me by the foundry, the security of the WHOLE UNIVERSE OF USERS is as good (or as bad) as the security of VLSI Technologies Inc. It is a trivial effort to run any ciphertext agains ALL THE KEYS EVER MANUFACTURED - after all we are talking about 1 to 100 million keys that will ever be manufactured. The key depositories can be as secure and incorruptible as they wish to be, nobody cares anyway...:-( Now if someone would convince me that the shipping docks of VTI, ATT and others are impenetrable (remember: the chips have to ship with the key - you or the dealer are going to submit it to the authorities eventually) I'd be a bit happier. But do we really believe that the various governments (including ours) won't have the full lists of all the keys ever manufactured? Did I miss something here? My own opinions, quite obviously... --
The first time I heard this piece of news was on the post game radio interview here in Jyvaskyla. That was the bronze medal game in the SM-liiga which Tichonov's team Porin Assat (the Aces of town Pori:) lost. Vasili, the son of Victor Tichonov (the famous Soviet coach), said that for a long time the Sharks have been persuading him to take the assistant coach post. But he wants to be the head coach where ever he goes. He definitely won't be coaching Assat anymore (after three? seasons). I don't know why. Vasili is a good coach I believe. Assat was a good team, produced many players to our national team. Assat wasn't a skilled team (IMHO) but they had the fighting spirit. After all, they butchered Jokerit in the playoffs and gave hard time to TPS, the champs. But Assat wasn't consistent, only when they were in the right mood they could beat any team in the SM-liiga. I am not 100% sure about the deal with the Sharks. As I said, he wants to be the head coach. But he and the Sharks are going to negotiate and decide during the WC. I doubt that he will be the head coach but maybe they'll do some compromise.
Sorry to disappoint you but the Red Wings earned the victory...easily. I watched most of the game on ESPN (as soon as I realized that they were televising the game which was at the beginning of the second). The Maple Leafs were flat. Very flat. Meanwhile, the Red Wings were skating very freely and dictating the pace of the game. I didn't detect any bad penalty calls (Van Hellemond did his usual good job). Toronto looked like how I expected them to for their first playoff game in a few years -- nervous. For the Leafs sake, I hope they can rid themselves of the butterflies for game 2. If game 1 is indicative of the series, it's gonna go quick.
Heya all, I've got a pair of Oakley forsale There are frogskins, with aurborn red. THere are no scratches and only used them once or twice last summer. I'm looking for about 25-30 dollars but please give me a bid. I'm am looking for the following items A BUBBLE JET PRINTER that works and is el cheapo... i was looking for a cannon BJ-5 but if u have a bubble jet to sell please tell me. I'm looking to spend about $100 or so. A sound cards (sound blaster compatible). Again I'm looking fer something cheap, such as $50 or so dollars. thanks whirley
I wish I hadn't sold my copy of Jewish Baseball Stars. It's a Short Shelf (i.e., the one on top of the toilet tank) Special. The writing in that books is so astonishingly awful -- every sportswriting cliche taken to the nth degree and then mangled -- that it's funny. Rusinow is the author, I think.
It may have been passed to Toronto, but I've even seen an octopus at the Aud -- last year's Bruins-Sabres game. I knew all about the Detroit version, but seeing at the Aud was a bit puzzling. :-)
Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs) are seen coming equally from all directions. However, given the number of bright ones, there are too few faint ones to be consistent with being equally dense for as far as we can see--it is as if they are all contained within a finite sphere (or a sphere with fuzzy edges) with us at the center. (These measurements are statistical, and you can always hide a sufficiently small number of a different type of GRB with a different origin in the data. I am assuming that there is only one population of GRBs). The data indicates that we are less than 10% of the radius of the center of the distribution. The only things the Earth is at the exact center of are the Solar system (at the scale of the Oort cloud of comets way beyond Pluto) and the Universe. Cosmological theories, placing GRBs throughout the Universe, require supernova-type energies to be released over a timescale of milliseconds. Oort cloud models tend to be silly, even by the standards of astrophysics. If GRBs were Galactic (i.e. distributed through the Milky Way Galaxy) you would expect them to be either concentrated in the plane of the Galaxy (for a 'disk' population), or towards the Galactic center (for a spherical 'halo' population). We don't see this, so if they are Galactic, they must be in a halo at least 250,000 light years in radius, and we would probably start to see GRBs from the Andromeda Galaxy (assuming that it has a similar halo.) For comparison, the Earth is 25,000 light-years from the center of the Galaxy. The aren't concentrated in the known spacelanes, and we don't see many coming from Zeta Reticuli and Tau Ceti. There are more than 130 GRB different models in the refereed literature. Right now, the theorists have a sort of unofficial moratorium on new models until new observational evidence comes in.
Is there a few Grasp pictures of space related items, namely Space Station Designs, so you can see the "finished" revolt around.. If you don't know what a grasp prograsm is.. Check out some adult entertainment files and see what I mean.. Or maybe geta few GIF files and create a "slide shows" (I think Cshow can do this)..
I haven't been following the previous HR's. But there are two, that I saw live that would have to be up there (up where? there!). 1) Rick Monday's HR to bury the Expos in the NL championship in 1981. It was hit off Steve Rogers, who is a RHP and primarily a starter. Why was he used as a reliever when the 'Spos had Reardon and BillLee warming up in the bullpen. Considering Monday couldn't touch LHP, Lee would have been a safe bet. He wasn't even doing any drugs at that time (or so he told me and around 50 others on a recent venture into Montreal. The blast wasn't the important aspect. It was the timing. Seventh game, a tie game, and in the top of the 9th. The Expos almost came back though... 2) Mike Schmidt hit one that killed the Expos in 1980. So close, yet, so far. and 3) Strawberry killed a pitch on the second day of the season a couple of years ago. It went off the technical ring in the Big O. It almost left the stadium! That was hit HARD!!! CorelMARK!
ha... all this talk about changing the clock speed of the q700 makes me ask?? if i replaced the 8mhz 68000 in my plus with a 16mhz 68000 with a 16mhz clock occilater of its own( not shared by the rest of the mac... just the new 16mhz68000) would my mac work..... and if it would work.. would you think there where be any problems with sound, vidio,scsi........ it seems like a simple solution to keepa dead slow mechine a live a little longer.. Oh if this would not work any idears on how to make it work??? thanks alex
In billions of dollars (%GNP): year GNP receipts outlays deficit debt unempl% admin ==== ==== =========== ============ ========= ====== ======= ======= 1977 1930 355.6 (18.4) 409.2 (21.2) 53.6 (2.8) 709.1 Carter 1978 2174 399.6 (18.4) 458.7 (21.1) 59.2 (2.7) 780.4 Carter 1979 2444 463.3 (19.0) 503.5 (20.6) 40.2 (1.6) 833.8 Carter 1980 2674 517.1 (19.3) 590.9 (22.1) 73.8 (2.8) 914.3 7.9 Carter 1981 2986 599.3 (20.1) 678.2 (22.7) 78.9 (2.6) 1003.9 8.4 Reagan 1982 3130 617.8 (19.7) 745.7 (23.8) 127.9 (4.1) 1147.0 11.0 Reagan 1983 3325 600.6 (18.1) 808.3 (24.3) 207.8 (6.2) 1381.9 10.9 Reagan 1984 3688 666.5 (18.1) 851.8 (23.1) 185.3 (5.0) 1576.7 8.6 Reagan 1985 3958 734.1 (18.5) 946.3 (23.9) 212.3 (5.4) 1827.5 8.1 Reagan 1986 4177 769.1 (18.4) 989.8 (23.7) 220.7 (5.3) 2129.5 7.9 Reagan 1987 4442 854.1 (19.2) 1002.1 (22.6) 148.0 (3.4) 2354.3 7.1 Reagan 1988 4771 909.0 (19.1) 1064.1 (22.3) 155.1 (3.2) 2614.6 6.3 Reagan 1989 5201 990.8 (19.0) 1142.8 (22.0) 152.0 (2.9) 2881.1 Bush 1990 1031.2 1251.6 220.4 3190.5 Bush 1991 1054.3 1323.0 268.7 3599.0 Bush [Source: Statistical Abstract of the US (1990 version), American Almanac (1993 version), Universal Almanac (1993 version), Information Please Almanac (1991 version)] GRAPHICALLY: Deficits as a % of GNP, 1981-89 % GNP 7| | 6| X | X X 5| X | 4| X | X 3| X X | X 2| | 1| |____________________________________________________________________________ 0 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 Ironically, Bush could have frozen spending, kept his "no new taxes" pledge and balanced the budget.
Gretzky averaged 2.69 pts/game Check your information before posting, Gretzky's record is 215 pts in 80 games. Over 84 games, Gretzky's total projected 226 points. The 76-77 Canadiens had .825 percentage, 132 pts in 80 games. (60-8-12). The 29-30 Bruins had a .875 winning percentage. Also the 77-78 Canadiens had a .806 percentage with a 59-10-11 record.
Ok, I'll bite. How is this supposed to work?
It seems to me that many readers of this conference are interested who is behind the Center for Polict Research. I will oblige. My name is Elias Davidsson, Icelandic citizen, born in Palestine. My mother was thrown from Germany because she belonged to the 'undesirables' (at that times this group was defined as 'Jews'). She was forced to go to Palestine due to many cynical factors. I have meanwhile settled in Iceland (30 years ago) and met many people who were thrown out from my homeland, Palestine, because of the same reason (they belonged to the 'indesirables'). These people include my neighbors in Jerusalem with the children of whom I played as child. Their crime: Theyare not Jews. My conscience does not accept such injustice, period. My work for justice is done in the name of my principled opposition to racism and racial discrimination. Those who protest against such practices in Arab countries have my support - as long as their protest is based on a principled position, but not as a tactic to deflect criticism from Israel. The struggle against discrimination and racism is universal. The Center for Policy Research is a name I gave to those activities undertaken under my guidance in different domains, and which command the support of many volunteers in Iceland. It is however not a formal institution and works with minimal funds. Professionally I am music teacher and composer. I have published several pieces and my piano music is taught widely in Europe. I would hope that discussion about Israel/Palestine be conducted in a more civilized manner. Calling names is not helpful.
Agreed, but, yes, chapstick fits under the "waxy shit" category, although I've noticed that stealing Annette's chapstick (after she's applied it :-) kept my lips from cracking this past winter like they have in all previous winters. Sigh...the price I must pay... So does my darling Annette (okay, I guess you can ready the barf bags now :-) Later,
Implicitly you are assuming that goals scored against Winnipeg with Selanne on the ice can be blamed on him...Roger, he is a FORWARD. Winnipeg has a lousy defensive record anyway. Let's put it another way. John Cullen's +/- is terrible. What's your excuse for him? That his powerplay points don't count? Neither do Selanne's... Knowledgeable hockey observers the world over would agree that feeding Selanne so he can score does contribute in a meaningful way to winning. You're worried about Teemu when you have Glenn Anderson on your team? What he does best is score...so I refer you to my comment above.
>> bad people, while not interfering with good people, I think we'd all be >> for it. The problem is, the methods we're using now don't do the trick. > Don't manufacture them. Don't sell them. Don't import them. > > Some guns will get through, but far fewer, and far less people will > die because of them. Hunting weapons could be allowed, of course, as > long as they are big, and bulky, and require reloading after a few > shots (how many times can you shoot at the same animal, anyways One > assumes they are moving!) A better solution:
Hi I am a Sociology student and I am currently researching into young offenders. I am looking at the way various groups of children are raised at home. At the moment I am formlulating information on discipline within the Christian home. Please, if you are a parent in this catagory can you email me your response to the following questionaire. All responses will be treated confidentially and will only be used to prepare stats. 1. Ages & sexes of children 2. Do you spank your kids? 3. If so how often? 4. Do you use an implement to spank with? 5. If you do not spank, what method of discipline do you use? 6. Your age? 7. Your location 8. While under the age of 16 did you ever commit a criminal offence? 9. How ere you disciplined as a kid Thank you in advance for any reply you can make. Please e-mail your replies rather than post them on the newsgroup
[stuff deleted] me: David: This is a very, very good point. Who cares what kind of gun you've got if you're lying on the ground dead. [more stuff deleted. mostly mine] Another very good point that is well taken. It seems that when lots of lead is flying (either the cops or the gangs) someone innocent always gets caught in the crossfire. All points made above are well taken. I guess I am in the mindset of "having more makes it better" which is obviously not the correct mindset to take in this discussion. Now that I think about the situation a little more carefully I see your point exactly David and I wholeheartedly (sp?) agree. Like I said I'm just assuming that "more bullets and/or bigger bullets is better". Once again though I want to state that I am a pro-gun individual and do NOT believe that gun control is really a viable option here in the United States regardless of the drivel that I spout here :-)
I want to start of list for Syclone and Typhoon owners. If you are interested in participating, please contact me via e-mail.
In <MARC.93Apr18174241@oliver.mit.edu> marc@mit.edu (Marc Horowitz I have also been in contact with Mitch about this. I believe him when he says he didn't ask to be on the "clipper" list. He also forwarded the traffic he had recieved through that list to me which will be placed at some ftp site. However, the first alias on the "clipper list" was csspab which was another mailing list. It basically contained the addresses for staffers and board members of the NIST security board. Several of these people had their accounts within the dockmaster domain. These are the people we might wish to FOIA... /harry
Here's a document that I wrote some time back. It's slightly out-of-date, now that DOS 6 has been released, but much of it is still useful. -- Darryl Okahata Internet: darrylo@sr.hp.com DISCLAIMER: this message is the author's personal opinion and does not constitute the support, opinion or policy of Hewlett-Packard or of the little green men that have been following him all day. =============================================================================== $Id: adaptec.txt 1.8 1993/01/25 00:55:08 darrylo Rel darrylo $ Hints and Tips for the Adaptec 1540/1542 SCSI adapter This document contains hints and tips for getting the Adaptec 1540/1542 SCSI adapter to work with various hardware and software packages. They are based upon my experiences with an Adaptec 1542A controller, and will, hopefully, help others. However, note that I cannot guarantee that the following will really help you (it works for me), and the information in this document could possibly cause you to lose some or all of your files on your hard disk. IMPORTANT! BACK UP THE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF YOUR HARD DISK BEFORE TRYING ANYTHING BASED UPON INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT. Copyright 1993, by Darryl Okahata. This document may be freely copied for personal use only, and may not be reprinted in a for-profit publication without the consent of the author. Please note that I have no connection with Adaptec other than as a customer. Topics covered in this document: * Windows 3.1 enhanced mode * Floppy-controller-based tape backup devices * Sound cards * Miscellaneous info Please note that parts of this document contain technical, and sometimes terse, descriptions of problems. For reference: Adaptec technical support: (800) 959-7274 Adaptec BBS (2400/9600): (408) 945-7727 Please send comments, corrections, etc. via email to me: CompuServe: 75206,3074 Internet: darrylo@sr.hp.com ***** Windows 3.1 enhanced mode: The Windows 3.1 install program should automatically configure DOS and Windows for use with the Adaptec 1542. However, just in case something went wrong, I'm going to describe some of the changes needed to get Windows 3.1 working with the 1542. Also, you may have noticed that installing Windows 3.1 makes your PC run much slower, even when you're not running Windows; methods of speeding it up are discussed in the section called, "Windows 3.1 runs slowly". * MSDOS configuration: The Windows install program adds the SmartDrive disk cache to your CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT files. If you follow the instructions, you'll notice that you'll need to use double-buffering with SmartDrive (this is the default setup). You'll also notice that your system runs much, much slower -- in both Windows *AND* MSDOS. See the section called, "Windows 3.1 runs slowly", for some ways of speeding your system up. * Windows configuration: To get the Adaptec 1542 to work with Windows, make sure that the "[388Enh]" section of the SYSTEM.INI file contains the entry: VirtualHDIRQ=Off I believe that the Windows install program automatically adds this entry to SYSTEM.INI, but I'm not sure. If this doesn't work for you, you might want to try adding some more lines: VirtualHDIRQ=Off SystemROMBreakPoint=false EMMExclude=A000-CFFF (You probably don't need the above lines, though.) The "SystemROMBreakPoint" entry is used to enable support for memory managers like QEMM/386MAX (only needed if you use such programs). * Windows 3.1 runs slowly: Once you do get Windows 3.1 running with the 1542, chances are that your system is running much slower than before. If it's not, it's probably because: 1. You happen to be using ASPI4DOS.SYS version 3.1 in your CONFIG.SYS file. Congratulations -- this appears to be a winning solution. 2. You are very lucky. Whether your luck will hold out remains to be seen .... If your system is running much slower than before, this is almost definitely caused by Smartdrive with double-buffering. According to the Windows documentation, and the Microsoft technical note #Q81808 ("SMARTDrive Double Buffering Required with ASPI4DOS.SYS"), you must use Smartdrive with double-buffering enabled. While this works, it really slows down your PC; I once estimated that this slowed my PC down by a factor of 5 (FIVE). As I consider this unacceptable, I looked for other solutions. Unfortunately, you cannot just disable double-buffering. If you do, Windows 3.1 in enhanced mode will not work, and you might even destroy the contents of your hard disk by trying to run Windows 3.1. What you can do is one of the following: 1. Use other drivers that provide double-buffering. It is my opinion that the unbelievable slowness in Smartdrive is caused either by horribly inefficient double-buffering, or by a bug in Smartdrive. 2. Use a driver that provides "VDS" services ("VDS" stands for "Virtual DMA Services"). This is a standard, which is supported by Windows 3.1, that allows bus-mastering disk controllers (like the 1542) to work with Windows. After trashing my hard disk countless times, I found the following solutions, none of which require using Smartdrive (note, however, that I am now getting occasional parity errors, which are probably *NOT* caused by these solutions, but might be -- see below). While the following does not require Smartdrive, using some kind of disk cache utility is strongly recommended, as this makes Windows run much, much faster: 1. If you do not have the ASPI4DOS.SYS driver, or you do not need ASPI functions (for controlling a CDROM, tape drive, more than two physical hard disks, etc.), you can add the SCSIHA.SYS driver to your CONFIG.SYS file, e.g.: DRIVER=c:\SCSIHA.SYS /V386 (Windows needs the "/V386" option.) This driver MUST be loaded into LOW memory (it cannot be loaded into high memory), and it occupies about 16-20K. As of November 1992, the SCSIHA.SYS driver could be obtained from the Adaptec BBS at (408)-945-7727 (hopefully, it's still there). 2. If you need ASPI functions and have the ASPI4DOS.SYS driver, version 3.0 or 3.0a, you can use both the ASPI4DOS.SYS and SCSIHA.SYS drivers in your CONFIG.SYS file, e.g.: DRIVER=c:\ASPI4DOS.SYS DRIVER=c:\SCSIHA.SYS /V386 Amazingly enough, the SCSIHA.SYS driver can also be loaded high (assuming you have DOS 5.0); I would have thought that this would crash my system, but it doesn't. I asked Adaptec's technical support about this, and they said that loading SCSIHA.SYS high should be fine as long as ASPI4DOS.SYS is loaded LOW. On my system, NOT using SCSIHA.SYS with ASPI4DOS 3.0a would occasionally cause Windows 3.1 to crash upon restarting or exiting Windows, with the additional result of a corrupted disk (some of my C:\WINDOWS\*.GRP files would be corrupted). For me, these crashes usually occurred while making a different program from PROGMAN.EXE the default Windows shell, and vice-versa. This is the reason SCSIHA.SYS may be necessary. I have absolutely no idea if SCSIHA.SYS is necessary with versions of ASPI4DOS earlier than 3.0. Note that many people can use ASPI4DOS 3.0 or 3.0a without SCSIHA.SYS; they do not seem to have any problems at all. I consider these people lucky. Others, like me, have had all sorts of problems. 3. In my opinion, the best, but not necessarily the easiest, solution is to upgrade to ASPI4DOS 3.1. The SCSIHA.SYS driver is no longer needed. Unfortunately, while you could get previous ASPI4DOS upgrades from the Adaptec BBS, the ASPI4DOS 3.1 driver is not available from the Adaptec BBS. As far as I know, there are only three ways to get a copy: * You can buy the new (as of November 1992) Adaptec EZ SCSI driver kit, which supposedly includes ASPI4DOS 3.1 as well as other drivers, such as CDROM drivers. I believe the list price is around $75. * If you already have a copy of an older version of ASPI4DOS, you can supposedly contact Adaptec to upgrade it to EZ SCSI for around $30. * A copy of ASPI4DOS 3.1 is included in Central Point PC Tools 8.0 for MSDOS. Note that the documentation and driver are stored in different directories. Note further that only ASPI4DOS is included; the CDROM drivers and drivers to support more than two hard disks are not included. This is where I obtained my copy of ASPI4DOS 3.1. Note, however, that I am now getting occasional parity errors with Windows. In all probability, defective hardware in my PC is causing this, as I upgraded my motherboard just after I found the above solutions. However, because these parity errors occur only during disk accesses, there is a very small, but definite, possibility that the parity errors are driver-related (for example, changing the bus on/off timing for certain disk transfers might cause this). I've run various memory tests for hours at a time, and these tests have found no problems. This problem is probably caused by memory with marginal timing requirements, which cause parity errors during disk transfers (this is why the memory tests didn't find any problems -- the problems show up only under disk I/O). However, I'm mentioning this just in case it isn't a hardware problem. ***** Floppy-controller-based tape backup devices: There are two possible problems with using the Adaptec 1542 with a floppy-controller-based tape backup device, such as the Colorado Memory Systems Jumbo 250: 1. Tape backups/restores can take a very long time. The tape drive constantly starts, stops, starts, stops, etc. 2. Tape operations may be erratic, or encounter too many tape errors. (This problem might be caused by defective hardware on my 1542. However, I've heard of other people having similar problems, and so I'm mentioning this just in case it is not a hardware problem on my 1542.) * Tape backups/restores take a long time: If you have a floppy-controller-based tape backup device, you may have to adjust the Adaptec 1540/1542 "bus on/off timing" for best results when using the tape drive. Normally, while doing a tape backup or restore, the tape drive motor should be continuously running, with only an occasional pause. However, the default bus timing on the Adaptec 1540/1542 may cause the tape drive motor to start and stop, start and stop, every few seconds. This causes needless wear to the tape and tape drive (however, note that a dirty tape head or a defective tape drive can also cause this -- make sure your tape heads are clean). This also causes the tape backup or restore to take much, much longer than necessary. The problem here is that these tape backups use the floppy DMA to transfer data in memory to/from the tape drive, and the Adaptec uses DMA to transfer data in memory to/from the hard disk. The floppy DMA needs to feed data to the tape drive at a certain rate; if the tape drive is not fed data quickly enough by the floppy DMA, the tape drive stops, rewinds a bit, and restarts (once enough data is eventually fed to it). The default bus timing on the Adaptec (which is really DMA timing) is "too large". For example, when a backup is done, data has to be transferred from a hard disk to memory, and then from memory to the tape. Because the default timing on the Adaptec "hogs" the memory too much (too much time is spent transferring data from a hard disk to memory), not enough time is spent transferring data from memory to the tape drive. As a result, the tape drive constantly starts and stops, because data is not fed to it quickly enough. The solution is to change the Adaptec's bus on/off timing. The default factory setting is 11 microseconds on, and 5 microseconds off. The "bus on" timing needs to be lowered to 2-4 microseconds. This can be done in one of two ways: * If you have ASPI4DOS, you can use the "/n" option. For example, I use a "bus on" timing of 4 microseconds, which means that I use the following line in my CONFIG.SYS file: DEVICE=c:\aspi4dos.sys /n4 Note that there is NO space between the "/n" and the "4". * If you don't have ASPI4DOS, your only recourse is to try to find a program called "SETSCSI.EXE", which is very difficult to find. The reason is that Adaptec, for reasons of their own, does not seem to want this widely distributed. I once asked someone who worked for Adaptec, and they asked me to not upload it anywhere. If you have anonymous ftp access to the Internet, you could try using archie to hunt down a copy; I believe that there are a couple of sites that have it. If you do find a copy, you run it like so: setscsi -n:4 This adjusts the "bus on" timing to 4 microseconds. Running SETSCSI.EXE without any arguments resets the bus timing back to the factory defaults. Note that it seems that you cannot use SETSCSI.EXE if you use ASPI4DOS; SETSCSI.EXE crashed my system if ASPI4DOS was loaded. I could use SETSCSI.EXE with SCSIHA.SYS, however. Do not lower the "bus on" timing below 2 microseconds, or increase it above 11 microseconds. If you lower it too low, the hard disk throughput will suddenly drop; your system will feel slower. For me, 4 microseconds works fine. This value may work fine for you, or you may have to adjust it downwards a little. Once you've lowered the "bus on" timing, tape backups and restores should run faster. Also, do not experiment with the bus on/off times (with the other options that I have intentionally not described), unless you know what you are doing. Bad combinations can cause parity errors and worse, by starving memory refresh. A program called BUSTIFIX.EXE exists on the Adaptec BBS. Unless this has been upgraded since I last checked (which has been a while), this is a self-extracting archive containing a batch file and a couple of other files. This batch file was supposed to allow one to set the bus on/off times for the 1540/1542 and others. However, when I tried running this program with my 1542A, my system crashed. At the time, I was running SCSIHA.SYS, and I didn't check to see if there was a conflict with it. Maybe this old program works only with the 1542B, although the docs say that it works with the 1542A? * Erratic tape operations or too many tape errors: This "problem" may or may not exist. Although it existed on my system, a hardware problem just on my particular 1542 could cause it. However, I've heard of other people having similar problems, and so I'm mentioning this just in case it isn't a hardware problem just on my 1542. Symptoms of this "problem", which persists even after cleaning the tape head: 1. Backing up to tape encounters "unusable sector detected" errors, resulting in an aborted tape backup. 2. Tape backup works, but the tape compare fails. 3. The tape drive starts, stops, starts, stops, etc. much too often. Unlike the above-mentioned problem ("Tape backups/restores take a long time"), where the tape drive starts and stops every few seconds, this kind of starting/stopping occurs every few 10-20 seconds or so. 4. Fastback Plus 3.1 does not find/see any tape backup devices. Other programs, like Central Point Backup and the CMS Jumbo software (assuming that you have a CMS Jumbo 250 tape drive) can find/see the tape drive, but Fastback Plus 3.1 cannot. 5. Too many tape read errors. Although I do not know what is causing this problem, I discovered that using a different floppy controller solves it. A few months ago, I upgraded my motherboard, which contained an integrated floppy controller. As I already had a floppy controller on the 1542, I initially disabled the motherboard floppy controller. After a while, I decided to try disabling the 1542 floppy controller and using the one on the motherboard. When I did this, the tape drive (a CMS Jumbo 250) reliability increased dramatically, and Fastback Plus 3.1 was suddenly able to find and use the tape drive. I don't know if this was caused by a hardware problem on my 1542. On the one hand, the floppy drives worked great when they were attached to the 1542, which seems to say that there was nothing wrong with the 1542. On the other hand, the tape drive didn't work well attached to the 1542 floppy controller, but it did work when attached to a different controller; this could be an indication of a hardware problem on my 1542. I did change floppy drive cables, and so it is conceivable that the problem was in the cables. I don't know what the cause really is; however, if you're having similar problems, you might want to consider trying a new floppy controller. ***** Sound cards: Many popular sound cards can play or record digitized sound, and this is typically done using DMA. Like the tape drive DMA, the Adaptec's DMA can conflict with the sound card DMA. Unlike that of the tape DMA, this "conflict" usually manifests itself as a parity error (your system crashes with a parity error message). What happens is that, data is being transferred so quickly by the sound card and the Adaptec, memory refresh cannot occur quickly enough, which causes a parity error. Usually, getting a parity error means that there is a hardware problem with your system; in this case, however, the parity error is not a symptom of bad hardware. I've found that such parity errors typically occur while recording digitized sound, and the chances of such errors increase as you increase the recording fidelity (e.g., higher sampling rate, recording in stereo, recording using 16-bits instead of 8, etc.). Like the tape drive solution, the solution here is to lower the Adaptec's "bus on" timing. See the section on tape drives for information on how this is done. Note, however, that this may or may not solve the problem; it may only reduce the probability of a parity error. The software used to record digitized sound can greatly affect this problem (i.e., some software is inefficient). Disk caches, the speed of your hard disk, and the amount of disk fragmentation can also affect this. ***** Miscellaneous info: This section contains miscellaneous hints, tips, and rumors. Much of it is merely information that I've heard or read about, and have not verified. I believe that the following information is correct, but I'm not sure. Use it at your own risk. * With QEMM 6.00, 6.01, and 6.02, you need to specify the "DB=" parameter (e.g., "DB=2"), unless you are using the ASPI4DOS driver. If you don't, QEMM will crash/hang at bootup. Although the QEMM manual mentions this, the install program does not seem to detect that a 1542 is present and automatically add this option to the QEMM command line (at least, this occurred with the QEMM 6.00 install program -- I haven't tested any other version). Earlier versions of QEMM probably need this parameter, but I'm not sure (I've never used a version earlier than 6.00). If you use ASPI4DOS, you do not need to give QEMM the "DB=" parameter. * Some or all versions of the 1542 do not support hard disks over one gigabyte in size. To support hard disks with capacities over 1GB, you need to get a new ROM BIOS from Adaptec. I'm not sure if this is still true of the latest 1542Bs being sold by Adaptec. * To connect a CDROM drive to the 1542, you need a SCSI CDROM drive and some drivers. Note that some CDROM drives have proprietary interfaces (non-SCSI); these drives cannot be used with the 1542. You have three choices for CDROM drivers (I have no idea how well the following solutions work, or even if they work -- the following is secondhand information): 1. You can buy Adaptec's EZ SCSI driver package, which lists for something like $75. If you already have older Adaptec drivers, you can supposedly upgrade to EZ SCSI for around $30. Contact Adaptec for details. The EZ SCSI package supposedly contains everything that you need. 2. You can buy the CorelSCSI! driver package, which is made by the same people that make CorelDRAW! This package contains CDROM drivers, SCSI tape drivers, WORM drivers, etc. I do not know the list price, but I've seen this package sold for around $80-$90. Note that CorelSCSI! does not come with the ASPI4DOS driver, which is needed. If you do not already have ASPI4DOS, you may be better off getting Adaptec's EZ SCSI instead. 3. [This method is obsolete, as the following drivers have been obsoleted by Adaptec's EZ SCSI kit, but I'm mentioning it in case someone already has these drivers.] You can use the drivers in the Adaptec ASW-1410 kit (ASPI4DOS) and the ASW-410 kit (ASPI CDROM drivers). You will have to get a copy of MSCDEX.EXE (a high-level CDROM driver), if it is not included in the ASW-410 kit, but this is available from several bulletin boards. * To use a SCSI tape drive with the 1542, you need software that knows how to talk to a SCSI tape drive. Software that I've heard about are (again, like the above section on CDROM drives, I have no idea how well the following solutions work, or even if they work -- the following is secondhand information): 1. Central Point PC Tools 8.0 for MSDOS supposedly supports a large number of SCSI tape drives. It comes with SCSI drivers (ASPI4DOS 3.1) as well as Central Point Backup. 2. The CorelSCSI! driver package contains a SCSI tape backup program (see the above section on CDROM drives for more details). However, note that CorelSCSI! does not come with, but requires, ASPI4DOS. * I've seen advertisements that sell the 1542 in three configurations: 1. 1542 SCSI controller with hard disk ROM BIOS. 2. 1542 SCSI controller w/BIOS and Adaptec ASPI drivers. 3. 1542 SCSI controller w/BIOS, Adaptec ASPI drivers, and CorelSCSI! drivers/programs. I imagine that Adaptec now sells the 1542 in a fourth configuration: 4. 1542 SCSI controller w/BIOS and EZ SCSI drivers (including ASPI drivers). * Those people who use Unix might be interested in a version of GNU tar for MSDOS that talks to a SCSI tape drive via the ASPI4DOS driver (you need this driver before you can use this program). I've never used this version of GNU tar, but I've heard that it works (I don't know how well, though). If you have anonymous ftp access to the Internet, a copy can be found on wsmr-simtel20.army.mil and mirror sites: PD1:<MSDOS.DSKUTL> ASPIBIN.ZIP 67841 920131 Gnu Tar for SCSI tape drives, Adaptec 154xx ASPIPAT.ZIP 21206 920131 Patches for ASPIBIN relative to Gnu Tar 1.10 ASPISRC.ZIP 221370 920131 Src for Gnu Tar for SCSI tape, Adaptec ctrlr I have no idea if a copy can be found on Compuserve; UNIXFORUM might have it, if any forum does. * As far as MSDOS is concerned, the 1542A and the 1542B controllers are the same; with MSDOS, the 1542A should work as well as the 1542B. However, the hardware for these two boards is not 100% identical, and there is at least one (NON-MSDOS) program that initially did not work with a 1542A, but did work with a 1542B (BSD386 -- a 386 version of BSD Unix). * In case anyone's curious, here's an edited copy of my CONFIG.SYS file: FILES=40 BUFFERS=40 BREAK=ON STACKS=10,256 DEVICE=c:\sys\dev\aspi4dos.sys /d /n4 DEVICE=C:\QEMM\QEMM386.SYS on RAM ROM DMA=32 ST:M X=F800-FFFF DOS=HIGH,UMB DEVICEHIGH=c:\sys\dev\nnansi.sys DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\SETVER.EXE shell = c:\dos\command.com /p Note that I'm using QEMM and ASPI4DOS 3.1. If I were using ASPI4DOS 3.0 or 3.0a, I'd probably have to use a CONFIG.SYS that looked like: FILES=40 BUFFERS=40 BREAK=ON STACKS=10,256 DEVICE=c:\sys\dev\aspi4dos.sys /d /n4 DEVICE=C:\QEMM\QEMM386.SYS on RAM ROM DMA=32 ST:M X=F800-FFFF DOS=HIGH,UMB DEVICEHIGH=c:\sys\dev\scsiha.sys /V386 DEVICEHIGH=c:\sys\dev\nnansi.sys DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\SETVER.EXE shell = c:\dos\command.com /p If I weren't using ASPI4DOS, I'd probably use something that looked like: FILES=40 BUFFERS=40 BREAK=ON STACKS=10,256 DEVICE=c:\sys\dev\scsiha.sys /V386 DEVICE=C:\QEMM\QEMM386.SYS on RAM ROM DB=32 DMA=32 ST:M X=F800-FFFF DOS=HIGH,UMB DEVICEHIGH=c:\sys\dev\nnansi.sys DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\SETVER.EXE shell = c:\dos\command.com /p However, if I used a floppy-controller-based tape drive, or if I planned to record high-quality sound from a sound card, I would still need some way of changing the Adaptec's bus on/off times. The first two versions of CONFIG.SYS take care of this, but this last version doesn't.
For sale KFC SVGA Monitor 1024X768 .28DP Non-interlaced
He meant the US spends more per capita on guns than Canada which isn't really surprising because we were so busy protecting the western world from the USSR that all other countries could slack off on their defense spending.
It's normal for the BMW K bikes to use a little oil in the first few thousand miles. I don't know why. I've had three new K bikes, and all three used a bit of oil when new - max maybe .4 quart in first 1000 miles; this soon quits and by the time I had 10,000 miles on them the oil consumption was about zero. I've been told that the harder you run the bike (within reason) the sooner it stops using any oil.
Archive-name: rec-autos/part4 [this article is one of a pair of articles containing commonly asked automotive questions; the other article contains questions of general consumer interest, and is broken out to facilitate crossposting to misc.consumers -- rpw] [last change: 8 February 1993; CT now permits radar detector usage, new tire-traction q&a -- rpw] Commonly Asked Questions Radar Questions: Q: Where are radar detectors illegal? A: In the US, currently Virgina and the District of Columbia prohibit all usage of radar detectors. New York prohibits their use in large trucks. In Canada, they are illegal in Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, Newfoundland and PEI (Prince Edward Island). They are apparently are illegal through most, if not all, of Europe. Legislation which would make them illegal is pending in many other jurisdictions; chances of such legislation passing varies a great deal. Q: Where are Radar Detector Detectors used? Do they really work? A: Usage is spreading rapidly; initially they were used only in Canada, but now they are appearing in New York and Virginia. It is unsafe to assume that they are not in use in Connecticut and D.C. They work by detecting a certain frequency radiated by many currently available super Het radar detectors; some brands of detector radiate more strongly than others, and are thus more likely to be spotted. New radar detectors are becoming available which may not be detected by the current generation of detector detectors. Note that a detector may only be spotted by one of these devices if it is turned on. Q: What is VASCAR? Is it some kind of Radar? A: VASCAR is nothing more than a fancy stopwatch and time-speed-distance computer. It depends on the operator pressing buttons as the target vehicle passes landmarks. No radar signals are emitted by a VASCAR system. Q: What is Ka band radar? Where is it used? Should a radar detector be able to handle it? A: Ka band has recently been made available by the FCC for use in the US in so-called photo-radar installations. In these installations, a low-powered beam is aimed across the road at a 45 degree angle to the direction of traffic, and a picture is taken of vehicles which the radar unit determines to have been in violation of the speed limit. Tickets are mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Because of the low power and the 45 degree angle, many people believe that a radar detector cannot give reasonable warning of a Ka band radar unit, although some manufacturers of radar detectors have added such capability anyway. The number of locales where photo-radar is in use is limited, and some question the legality of such units. Best advice: learn what photo radar units look like, and keep track of where they are used (or else, don't speed.) Q: Do radar jammers work? Are they legal? A: Quick answer: No, and Not in the USA. Detailed answer: Cheap radar jammers do not work well at all. Jammers that work are expensive and usually the property of the military. Jammers are a major violation of the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission of the USA. Driving technique and Vehicle Dynamics Questions: Q: What are understeer and oversteer? A: Understeer and oversteer are terms describing the behaviour of a car while cornering near the `limit' (limit of adhesion, that is.) Most drivers do not normally drive hard enough for these terms to be descriptive of the situations they encounter. Simply put, they tell whether the car wants to go straight in a corner (steer `less', or `understeer') or it wants to turn more in a corner (`oversteer'.) Understeer is commonly designed into most production cars so that untrained drivers, inadvertantly traveling too fast, won't get into trouble. Understeer may also be induced by using too much throttle in a corner. Oversteer is designed into some more performance oriented cars; it may be induced by lifting on the throttle (Trailing throttle oversteer, or TTO). In extreme cases, lifting on the throttle may induce so much oversteer that the car reacts by fishtailing or spinning. Some technical details: in a corner at speed, the tires on the car will develop what are called `slip angles'; the slip angle is the angular difference between the direction that the car is traveling and the direction that the steering wheel is directing the car to travel. In understeer, the front wheels have a greater slip angle than the rear wheels. In oversteer, the rear wheels have a greater slip angle than the front wheels. Q: What is a rev-matched downshift? A: When downshifting, the engine must be rotating faster in the lower gear than it was in the higher gear. However, during a downshift, normally you declutch and lift your foot from the throttle, so the revs drop rather than increase. In rev-matched downshift, you blip the throttle before re-engaging the clutch so that the engine will already be up to the new speed. This results in a much smoother and faster downshift. Q: What does heel-and-toe mean? A: Heel-and-toe is a technique used to do a rev-matched downshift while braking. This is normally challenging, because you need the right foot for both the brake and throttle. It is called heel-and-toe because you use one end of the foot on the brake, and the other on the throttle to match revs for the downshift. In many modern cars this is a misnomer; often you must use the ball of the foot on the brake and the right side on the throttle. Note that some race car drivers will skip the clutch, and just use the left foot on the brake and the right foot on the throttle, accomplishing the same thing. Q: What is double-clutch downshifting? A: While your right foot is doing the above, your left foot can do one of three things: nothing, declutch once, or declutch twice. The reason for declutching twice is to match the speeds of the two shafts in the transmission to the speed of the engine. This is usually coupled with rev-matching, so that while the engine is in neutral and the clutch engaged, the throttle is blipped and both shafts of the transmission speed up. The procedure is as follows: (0) declutch (1) move gearshift lever to neutral (2) engage clutch (3) match revs (4) declutch (5) move gearshift lever to next lower gear (6) engage clutch This sounds like a lot of work, but with practice it becomes natural. The problem that double-clutching solves is normally the function of the synchronizers within the gearbox. In transmissions without synchros or with very worn synchros, double-clutching makes it much easier to shift. Basically, if you double-clutch well, you are not using the synchros at all. This is generally unnecessary on street cars with synchros in good condition. Q: What do the numbers for acceleration from 0-60, 1/4 mile, skidpad, and slalom times in the Auto Magazines really mean? May they be compared? A: In short, 1) not as much as the magazines want you to believe, and 2) almost never. In more detail: the acceleration numbers (0-60mph and 1/4 mile times in the US) may be vaguely compared as long as they all come from the same source. Testing procedures vary so much from magazine to magazine that comparing a Road & Track number to a Car & Driver number is quite pointless. Keep in mind, too, that the same variation applies from driver to driver on the street; the driver is a major (often *the* major) part of the equation. Skidpads vary, and even if they didn't, skidpad figures are really only tests of the stickiness of the stock tires; they change radically when tire compounds change. DO NOT make any assumptions about the comparative handling of, say, two sports sedans based on skidpad numbers. This is not to suggest that skidpads are without value, however. Skidpads are an excellent educational tool at driving schools. They are simply of limited value in the comparison of anything except tires. Slalom times are slightly more useful; they test some small parts of the automobile's transient response. However, they are also heavily influenced by the stock rubber on the car, and they do not test many corners of the car's envelope. They DO NOT tell you all you need to know before making a buying decision. For example, they don't tell you what the rear end of the car will do on a road which suddenly goes off-camber. When a car has an adjustable suspension, these tests are usually done in the `sport' setting, which may be quite unsuitable for daily driving. The list of caveats could go on for page after page. Q: My buddy claims that wide tires don't make any difference, according to his freshman physics textbook, and that you can't ever accelerate or corner at more than 1.0G. Does he know what he's talking about? A: 1) in short: he hasn't got a clue. 2) in more detail: the equations for friction used in freshman physics textbooks presume that the surfaces are smooth, dry and non-deformable, none of which properly apply to tire traction except in the case of a stone cold tire on dry pavement which is far below its proper operating temperature. Pavement is _never_ smooth; it is always irregular to a greater or lesser extent. Tires, which are not really dry and solid (as rubber is a substance which in its natural form is liquid, and which has only been coerced into a semblance of solidity by chemical magic), deform to match the surface of the pavement which a vehicle is traveling over. In a tire at operating temperature, grip is actually generated by shear stresses inside the deformed rubber, and not by anything even remotely resembling friction in the freshman physics sense of the term. The colder a tire is relative to its operating temperature, the closer its behaviour will be to the traditional concept of friction; if much hotter than the its proper operating temperature, the more likely the possibility of some part of the tire actually ``reverting'' to liquid, which is mostly like to happen deep in the tread, causing characteristic blisters and chunking. (This latter, though, is almost completely unlikely to happen in normal street driving, so unless you're a competition driver or do a lot of high speed track driving, don't worry about it.) Because tire traction is completely out of the domain of simple friction, it does not obey the freshman physics equation at all; thus dragsters accelerate at more than 1.0G and race cars corner and brake at more than 1.0G. Because simple friction does not apply, it is actually possible for different sized contact patches to generate differing amounts of grip. An actual analysis of tire behavior would require techniques such as Finite Element Analysis, due to the complexity of the mechanism. Misc. Questions: Q: What does <name or acronym> stand for? A: Here is a list of some of the names which are commonly asked about; be careful in soliciting the meanings of other names as misinformation abounds on the net. In particular, NEVER ask in rec.humor if you want a useful result. Saab: Svenska Aeroplan A. B., or The Swedish Airplane Corporation Alfa: Societa Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica Automobili, or The Lombardy Automobile Manufacturing Company Fiat: Fabbrica Italiana di Automobili Torino, or The Italian Automobile Manufacturers of Turin BMW: Bayerische Motoren Werke, or Bavarian Motor Works MG: Morris Garage Q: Does VW own Porsche? A: No. Porsche is a publicly held company, controlled by the Porsche and Piech families. Porsche has extensive business dealings with VW/Audi, which causes some confusion. Since currently Porsche is in some financial difficulty, there is a possibility that Mercedes or VW may be interested in purchasing the company in the near future, but this is only speculation at this time.
Hi, I am not sure where to post this message, please contact me if I'm way off the mark. On 19.3.93 my wife went to her General Practitioner (Doctor). He mentioned an article from a medical journal that is of great interest to us. He had read it in the previous three months but has been unable to find it again. The article was about Whiplash Injury/Cervical Pain. It mentions the use of a MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imagery) machine as a diagnostic tool and the work of a neurosurgeon who relived cervical pain. This article is most likely in an Australian medical journal. I very much want to obtain the name of the article, journal and author because the case matches my wife. We would very much appreciate anyone's help in this matter via email preferably. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gavin Anderson email: GAnderson@cmutual.com.au Analyst/Programmer. phone: +61-3-607-6299 Colonial Mutual Life Aust. (ACN 004021809) fax : +61-3-283-1095 -----------Some people never consciously discover their antipodes---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gavin Anderson email: GAnderson@cmutual.com.au Analyst/Programmer. phone: +61-3-607-6299 Colonial Mutual Life Aust. (ACN 004021809) fax : +61-3-283-1095
I am looking for a 8 meg 72-pin SIMM for my Centris 610. Where is the best place to purchase one (stock, shipping, warrenty), and if possible, phone numbers so that I can order one as soon as possible. Thanks, Steven -- "And hope that there's intelligent life somewhere out in space" Monty Python " 'Cause there's bugger all down here on Earth" The Meaning of Life
=8^/ Nothing like giving newbies a land rocket to practice on. Yup. Accelerate right into the back of an 18-wheel truck. Um. How's the easiest way to get newbies of the road? :) Regards, Ted.
Not to mention that the story was rewritten today. Those two BD's who "admitted to starting the fire", forget 'em, they don't exist anyone. Today, "a few saw someone starting a fire" and "our aerial surveillance showed them starting fires" at this morning's press conference. Tomorrow, even this excuse may evaporate. A reporter pointed out that a BD being brought to arraingement shouted that tanks knocking over lanterns started the fire. Curiouser and curiouser.
:P>My atheism is incidental, and the question of "God" is trivial. :P :P>But........ :P :P>It matters a great deal to me when idiots try to force their belief on me, :P>when they try to enforce their creation myths to be taught as scientific :P>fact in school, when they tell me I can have no morals because morals are :P>from "God", when a successful presidential candidate says that an atheist :P>shouldn't be considered a citizen and couldn't be patriotic because "after :P>all this is one nation under God", when the fundies try to take over the :P>party that may well provide the next President of The United States of :P>America so that they can force their beliefs on the rest of the country, :P>et cetera.......... :P :P>That's why I subscribe to alt.atheism. :P :P>And in the middle of this, people who aren't mind readers pop up on :P>alt.atheism to tell me what I do or don't believe, or to concoct some :P>straw-man reason why I don't share their particular belief. :P :P>You think I should just accept this? :P :P>This isn't particularly a dig at fundamentalist christians. I have been :P>told on alt.atheism that I reject Allah because I am too proud to embrace :P>islam, and that I reject Krishna because my eyes are closed. But most of :P>the religious nuts who post on alt.atheism are some kind of militant :P>christian who can't accept that others don't share their beliefs. This :P>kind of stuff should be kept on talk.religion.misc, where it belongs. :P :P>ATHEISM ISN'T A BELIEF, IT'S THE ABSENCE OF BELIEF IN ANY GODS. :P> ------- :P :P>Do you have a problem with this? :P :P>> :P>>Bill :PFirst, I would like to say that atheism is in fact a belief. It is a beilief :Pbecause a belief in something you hold to with ador and faith. An atheist says there are no gods. This cannot be proven. therefore you are excepting this on :Pfaith alone. That is a belief. Secondly, you complain so much about how the :Pfundamental christians are trying to force their beliefs on you, but you don't :Pmention anything about how the atheists, such as; Madamme Murry O'hare(founder :Pof the Atheists Association in Austin Texas), and Robert Sherman(from the Chicago area) have been trying to force their beliefs on everyone by trying to get rid of God from our society by banning religious paintings from parks during Chistmas, forcing cities to change their town seals if there is any mention of God in it (like Sherman has done), or trying to get the slogan "In God We Trust" off of the American currency? You also talk about creation "myths" as if they are in fact myths and tha :P :P :P :Phave concrete evidece of this. You probably :Pdon't and that just enforces my point that your atheism is just as much belief as my christianity. If this is not so please do show me why it isn't. :PMark Covalt The only real problem I have with the argument of christianity is that they seem to ignore their origin that being Asiatic in origin. As soon as christians become the good non ego-centric Buddhists they are supposed to be, then I might listen.
Kermit Tensmeyer quoted from a few sources and then wrote something. I will attempt to construct a facsimile of what was previously said, and then address Kermit's offering. John Redelfs originally wrote... jr> I learned that a man cannot frustrate justice by repenting on his jr> death bed because repentance is more than a feeling of remorse. It jr> requires faith in Christ proven by following him, by keeping his jr> commandments. Such cannot be accomplished on ones deathbed. Tom Albrecht responded... ta> So Jesus must have lied to the thief on the cross. John Redelfs wrote back that... jr> Paradise and salvation are not the same thing. Salvation is better. jr> Refer to John 14:2. I responded to John that... rw> I don't see the effort to equate salvation with paradise. rw> rw> Rather, I see implied the fact that only those who are saved rw> may enter paradise. To which Kermit wrote... kt> Incomplete reference: kt> kt> See also the discussion: Did Jesus go into Hell in the BibleStudy group kt> for the arguments that Paradise and Hell(sheol) are places after death kt> The discussion (no LDS were involved as far as I could see) argued using kt> standard Christian argument from the Bible that pretty much support the kt> LDS position. kt> kt> Christ went to paridise after his death and burial. kt> kt> He taught the prisoners and freed them from Darkness. kt> kt> When he was resurrected, he had not yet ascended to his father. kt> kt> The arguement centered around what was or wasn't the proper biblical kt> terms for those places. I respond. The question that was raised was not if Jesus went to infernal Paradise before entering into heaven. No one has made a point for or against that issue, nor have they compared the LDS position against orthodox belief. The infernal paradise is held to be Abraham's bosom (Luke 16), the place of the righteous dead in sheol (equivalent to hades). The point that was raised by John was that someone could not repent on their death bed. Tom Albrecht pointed to a Biblical example that was contradictory to what John's position put forward. The thief on the cross was promised by Christ to be with Him in Paradise, the abode of the righteous dead. John's position possibly needs to be reworked. Kermit needs to address the topic at hand.
Subject: Re: Seeking Christian opinion, all sorts. From: Rob Steele, rsteele@adam.ll.mit.edu Date: 5 May 93 06:52:54 GMT One day a few years ago Franky Schaeffer walked into a Greek Orthodox Church. He is now an Orthodox Christian. So is his mother and if his father, Fransis Schaeffer, had not passed away he too would have come into the church. Franky, like many Americans who have recently found the Orthodox church, described the experience as finally coming home after a long jouney through a desert. You should also read the book "Becoming Orthodox" by Peter Gillquist. It describes the long journey of some 2000 weary Evangelical Protestants to the Orthodox church. Come taste and see how good the Lord is.
They are news because they are the exceptions. And the 'Islamic Holocaust' is much the topic of the day. The historical evidence proves that during the period of 1914 to 1920, the Armenian Government ordered, incited, assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people because of race, religion and national origin. Armenians perpetrated acts of sabotage, destroyed telephone cables, blew up bridges, blocked passes, set up ambushes, attacked security stations and small Turkish outposts behind the Ottoman Army lines on the one hand, and on the other ruthlessly attacked Turkish and Kurdish villages, slaughtering the Turkish population indiscriminately, women, children, old and young alike. Innocent Muslims were one by one cruelly bayonetted to death, or massacred with axes and swords, or else shut up in mosques or in schools and then burnt alive as can be seen below. Widespread Armenian massacres of innocent Muslims took place in regions of Van, Kars, Sivas, Erzurum, Bitlis, Erzincan, Mus, Diyarbakir and Maras. The Ottoman Army, while fighting to prevent the Russian invasion, also had to deal with Armenian genocide squads who cowardly hit from behind. The Armenian genocide of the Muslims spread to all parts of Eastern Anatolia. Starting from late 1914, Armenians committed widespread massacres and genocide in Eastern Anatolia, because the arena was left to the Armenians. Almost every Turkish town and village from Erzincan up to Azerbaidjan suffered large scale massacres and genocide by Armenians and the Turkish genocide has been documented by Armenian, Russian, American, British, Ottoman, German, Austrian and French journalists and officers who observed the first genocide of this century committed by the blood-thirsty Armenian genocide squads. The Ottoman Army, liberating Trabzon, Bayburt, Erzincan, Erzurum, Kars and other regions from the Russians, saw that the cities and their villages had been destroyed and burnt, people slaughtered, massacred. The massacres conducted by Armenians, which became a black stain for humanity, shocked and disgusted even the Russian, British, German, Austrian, French and American authorities. Almost every Ottoman document is related to Armenian massacres and cruelties. The inhuman treatment, cruelties, atrocities, genocide by Armenian genocide squads perpetrated against innocent Moslem Turkish and Kurdish people, are sufficiently reflected in historical documents. Even today over seventy-five years later, the terrifying screams of the victims of these cruelties can be heard. Source: Documents: Volume I (1919). "Document No: 76," Archive No: 1/2, Cabin No: 109, Drawer No: 3, File No: 346, Section No: 427(1385), Contents No: 3, 52-53. (To Lt. Colonel Seyfi, General Headquarters, Second Section, Istanbul - Dr. Stephan Eshnanie) 'Neues Wiener Tagblatt' - Vienna, 'Pester Lloyd' 'Local Anzliger' - Berlin, 'Algemeen Handelsblat' - Amsterdam, 'Vakit' - Istanbul. "I have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of Russians and Armenians from Turkish territories through Armenia. Although two months have elapsed since the clearing of the territories of Armenian gangs, I have been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the Armenians at almost every step. All the villages from Trabzon to Erzincan and from Erzincan to Erzurum are destroyed. Corpses of Turks brutally and cruelly slain are everywhere. According to accounts by those who were able to save their lives by escaping to mountains, the first horrible and fearful events begun when the Russian forces evacuated the places which were then taken over by Armenian gangs. The Russians usually treated the people well, but the people feared the intervention of the Armenians. Once these places had been taken over by the Armenians, however, the massacres begun. They clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called the Armenian and Kurdish land from the Turks and thus, solve the nationality problem. Today I had the opportunity to meet Austrian and German soldiers who had escaped from Russian prison camps and come from Kars and Alexander Paul (Gumru-Leninakan)...Russian officers tried to save the Turks and there were clashes between Russian officers and Armenian gangs. I am now in Erzurum, and what I see is terrible. Almost the whole city is destroyed. The smell of the corpses still fills the air. Although there are speculations that Armenian gangs murdered Austrian and German prisoners as well, I could not get the supporting evidence in this regard, but there is proof of murdering of Turkish prisoners of war." Dr. Stephan Eshnanie Serdar Argic
I am in need of all of the players wearing #77 in the NHL. I know now only of one, Ray Borque for the Bruins. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thanx.
Greetings! I've had a bunch of problems with the 24x. Opening a DOS window on the desktop can occasionally result in the windows "blowing up" into a set of horizontal lines, hashing the entire desktop. Nothing can recover this except to completely exit from Windows. The other irritating problem is that windows that scroll often overwrite lines rather than actually scrolling, as if a CR was printed without an LF. This seems ONLY to happen to communications programs, but I can't nail it down any further than that. Note, though, that the comms programs don't have to be communicating. Even just scrolling back through capture buffers or displaying disk files in these programs causes the problem. Prior to the latest rev of Word Perfect for Windows, WPwin would sometimes blow up, and the error message would cite the video driver as the source of the problem. I've still seen this, but only once or twice with WPwin 5.2.
*Paranoia part deleted.*
Is there a workaround which will enable me to print to a HPLJ4 from my Powerbook 100? (Actually I'm going to a 4M which will have an Ethernet card in the LocalTalk slot!!!GRRRRR). Is there some hardware which will enable me to this easily (kind of plug and play!).
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: Ten questions about Israel Ten questions to Israelis ------------------------- I would be thankful if any of you who live in Israel could help to provide accurate answers to the following specific questions. These are indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by people around me. 1. Is it true that the Israeli authorities don't recognize Israeli nationality ? And that ID cards, which Israeli citizens must carry at all times, identify people as Jews or Arabs, not as Israelis ? 2. Is it true that the State of Israel has no fixed borders and that Israeli governments from 1948 until today have refused to state where the ultimate borders of the State of Israel should be ? 3. Is it true that Israeli stocks nuclear weapons ? If so, could you provide any evidence ? 4. Is it true that in Israeli prisons there are a number of individuals which were tried in secret and for which their identities, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are state secrets ? 5. Is it true that Jews who reside in the occupied territories are subject to different laws than non-Jews? 6. Is it true that Jews who left Palestine in the war 1947/48 to avoid the war were automatically allowed to return, while their Christian neighbors who did the same were not allowed to return ? 7. Is it true that Israel's Prime Minister, Y. Rabin, signed an order for ethnical cleansing in 1948, as is done today in Bosnia-Herzegovina ? 8. Is it true that Israeli Arab citizens are not admitted as members in kibbutzim? 9. Is it true that Israeli law attempts to discourage marriages between Jews and non-Jews ? 10. Is it true that Hotel Hilton in Tel Aviv is built on the site of a muslim cemetery ? Thanks,
Does anyone know who makes a cable or adapter that is wired according to Apple's specs that forces the external output on LC's and the Powerbook's 160/180 and Duo 230 into a true VGA style output signal? The NEC Adapter does not do this since their monitors are multisync they just route the signal into the correct pinout but do not switch the Macs output into VGA mode. Do I have to make one of these or does someone already have one made-up?? The following is the Apple spec for the LC cpu VGA Cable adapter. I'm assuming that the Powerbooks/Duos will work with the same adapter(?); Macintosh LC to VGA The Macintosh LC can supply a 640 x 480, VGA timed signal for use with VGA monitors by using an adapter cable. The standard Macintosh LC supports VGA to 16 colors, and with the optional 512K VRAM SIMM, the VGA monitor is supported to 256 colors. Note: The Macintosh LC supplies signals capable of driving TTL level inputs. However, some low impedance input VGA monitors do not work with the Macintosh LC. To connect a Macintosh LC to a VGA monitor, you need to make an adapter cable from the Macintosh LC video connector to the VGA monitor. Following is the pinout description for the adapter cable: Macintosh LC VGA Video Connector Pin Signal Name --------------- ---- ----------- 1 6 Red ground 2 1 Red video signal 5 2 Green video signal 6 7 Green ground 9 3 Blue video signal 13 8 Blue ground 15 13 /HSYNC 12 14 /VSYNC 14 10 HSYNC ground 7,10 nc SENSE1 & SENSE2 tied together VGA monitors are identified by shorting pin 7 to pin 10 on the Macintosh LC video connector. The Macintosh LC grounds pin 7 on its video connector, which results in pulling down pin 10 and gives the correct monitor ID for a VGA monitor.
Could anyone enlighten me on how the Mormon church views children born out of wedlock? In particular I'm interested to know if any stigma is attached to the children as opposed to the parents. I'm especially keen to learn if there is or is not any prohibition in the Mormon faith on bastards entering heaven or having their names entered in the big genealogical book the Mormons keep in Salt Lake City. If this is an issue on which the "official" position has changed over time, I'm interested in learning both old and new beliefs. E-mail or posting is fine. All information or pointers are appreciated.
True, coach Matikainen is ready to keep a spot for Teemu all the way until the medal games. He wants Teppo Numminen, too. And Kurri, but for them the spots cannot be left open for too long. Esa Tikkanen we have already. Even without these players I think we have pretty good team. Young, hungry, talented guys, no old players that have got everything (except the gold). Yesterday's practise game, SWE-FIN 6-6, shows that the two world's best hockey teams ;) are in prime shape. The Finn line Riihijarvi(slightly injured)-Saarikoski-Viitakoski shined. I bet these two teams are the best in the NHL, too. Roger, Roger? What do you people think about Team Canada with Lindros, Brind'Amour, Burke, Ranford, Recchi, Dineen...? Can they beat the Finns:? Coaching news: Alpo Suhonen (ex-Jets) to Jokerit (now verified), Boris Majorov (ex-Jokerit) to Tappara, Vasili Tichonov (ex-Assat) to San Jose Sharks (assistant coach), Sakari Pietila to Lulea (silver team in Elite-serien)
> I realize I'm entering this discussion rather late, but I do >have one question. Wasn't it a Reagan appointee, James Watt, a >pentacostal christian (I think) who was the secretary of the interior >who saw no problem with deforestation since we were "living in the >last days" and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods >anyway? I heard the same thing, but without confirmation that he actually said it. It was just as alarming to us as to you; the Bible says that nobody knows when the second coming will take place.
I know that Jet Inc makes refills for the Stylewriter and Deskwriter ink jet cartridges in several colors....but are pre-filled cartridges in color available from anyone (or do I have to use-up one cartridge before I have a chance to print in color?) Also, are inks in process colors (cyan, magenta, yellow) available to refill cartridges?
Hello as the subject tells all I am trying to find out what is the formula to calculate the ERA for the pitchers. If any of you baseball fans have it please e-mail me at napoli@atc.olivetti.com thank you very much
Looking for hint book for indiana jones and the last crusade the game is for the ibm.e-mail me or call 481 3740 and ask for orion. if you don't have the hint book but know how to answer these questions plao.
04 Apr 93, David Cruz-Uribe writes to All: DC> Also, what is Orthodox practice regarding communion? I read DC> a throw-away remark someplace that the Orthodox receive less DC> frequently than Catholics do, but was is their current practice? DC> Have their been any variations historically? I think Orthodox practice varies from place to place, from parish to parish and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In some parishes here in South Africa the only ones who receive communion are infants (i.e. children under 7). In our parish it is expected that one will have been to Vespers and confessional prayers the evening before, and that one will have been fasting. As we have to travel 70km to the church, we don' t receive communion every Sunday, but about every third Sunday. Steve
The Royals are darkness. They are the void of our time. When they play, shame descends upon the land like a cold front from Canada. They are a humiliation to all who have lived and all who shall ever live. They are utterly and completely doomed. Other than that, I guess they're OK. --
Personally, i wouldn't use the $1.29 product from KMart. I knew about this previously, but this past weekend on PBS's MotorWeek Pat Goss (their resident tech type) discussed these products, and recommends not using them (i.e, the non-isopropyl alcohlo based injector cleaners). Supposedly only the isopropyl based cleaners actually remove moisture from your fuel tank as they clean your injectors. And although the others (ethyl based) do clean injectors they also cause rubber components in the fuel system to deteriorate, and they don't mix well with water to help remove it from the fuel system. I use a product recommended by VW called 44K (by BG Products, Inc.). It cost more about $14.00, but it is supposed to do the job without the potential harmful side effects, and its results are supposed to last from 2k to 4k miles. I have also used Chevron's Techtrolene (sp?). I can't say that i have noticed any difference using either, since i only use these product as a preventative maintenance item. . / Larry __/ _______/_ keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov / \ _____ __ _____ \------- === ----------- / ____/ / / /__ __/ \ / ___ / / ___ / / / / ____ | | / \/ /__ / | / /__ __/ /__ / \ / /___ \_______/ /_____/ /______/ ====OO \ / \ / - 1990 2.0 16v - ---------------- FAHRVERGNUGEN FOREVER! -------------------- The fact that I need to explain it to you indicates that you probably wouldn't understand anyway!
I am a student at UW-Eau Claire. I am doing a paper an witches and wanted to get your point of view. I will not use you name unless you specifically tell me to do so. Please answer this question: As a Christian, are you offended by witches and Wiccan? Do you feel that tehy are pagan in the evil sense of the word? You time and cooperation is appreciated. Thanks, J. -This survey is being conducted in partial fulfillment of the course requirements for Engl 201, taught by Karen Welch at the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. This course is in compliance with the course certification requirements of the University Institutional Review Board for the PRotection of Human Subjects.
In article <1993Apr4.105514.11664@colorado.edu> ajteel@dendrite.cs.Colorado.EDU (A.J. Teel) writes... > No, the definition of "resident" is very specific. It is the >same thing as "alien". Look it up. Remember that the common usage of >the words ARE NOT always their legal meaning. This I gotta see some authority for. from Black's Law Dictionary, Revised 4th Ed., page 1473: RESIDENCE. A factual place of abode. Living in a particular locality. Reese v. Reese, 179 Misc. 665, 40 N.Y.S.2d 468, 472; Zimmerman, 175 Or. 585, 155 P.2d 293, 295. It requires only bodily presence as an inhabitant of a place. In re Campbell's Guardianship, 216 Minn. 113, 11 N.W.2d 786, 789. As ``domicile'' and ``residence'' are usually in the same place, they are frequently used as if they had the same meaning, but they are not identical terms, for a person may have two places of residence, as in the city and country, but only one domicile. Residence means living in a particular locality, but domicile means living in that locality with intent to make it a fixed and permanent home. Residence simply requires bodily presence as an inhabitant in a given place, while domicile requires bodily presence in that place and also an intention to make it one's domicile. In re Riley's Will, 266 N.Y.S. 209, 148 Misc. 588. ``Residence'' demands less intimate local ties than ``domicile,'' but ``domicile'' allows absence for indefinite period if intent to return remains. Immigration Act 1917, sec. 3, 8 U.S.C.A. sec. 136 (e, p). Transatlantica Italiana v. Elting, C.C.A.N.Y., 74 F.2d 732, 733. But see, Ward v. Ward, 115, W.Va 429, 176 S.E. 708, 709; Southwestern Greyhound Lines v. Craig, 182 Okl. 610, 80 P 2d 221, 224; holding that residence and domicile are synonymous terms. ``Residence'' has a meaning dependent on context and purpose of statute. In re Jones, 341 Pa. 329, 19 A.2d 280, 282. Words ``residence'' and ``domicile'' may have an identical or variable meaning depending on subject-matter and context of statute. Kemp v. Kemp, 16 N.Y.S.2d 26, 34, 172 Misc. 738. Legal residence. See Legal. RESIDENT. One who has his residence in a place. See Residence. Also a tenant, who was obliged to reside on his lord's land, and not to depart from the same; called, also, ``homme levant et couchant,'' and in Normandy, ``resseant du fief.''
Sean, the 68070 exists! :-) Sean, I don't want to get into a 'mini-war' by what I am going to say, but I have to be a little bit skeptic about the performance you are claiming on the Centris, you'll see why (please, no-flames, I reserve those for c.s.m.a :-) ) I was in Chicago in the last consumer electronics show, and Apple had a booth there. I walked by, and they were showing real-time video capture using a (Radious or SuperMac?) card to digitize and make right on the spot quicktime movies. I think the quicktime they were using was the old one (1.5). They digitized a guy talking there in 160x2xx something. It played back quite nicely and in real time. The guy then expanded the window (resized) to 25x by 3xx (320 in y I think) and the frame rate decreased enough to notice that it wasn't 30fps (or about 30fps) anymore. It dropped to like 15 fps. Then he increased it just a bit more, and it dropped to 10<->12 fps. Then I asked him what Mac he was using... He was using a Quadra (don't know what model, 900?) to do it, and he was telling the guys there that the Quicktime could play back at the same speed even on an LCII. Well, I spoiled his claim so to say, since a 68040 Quadra Mac was having a little bit of trouble. And this wasn't even from the hardisk! This was from memory! Could it be that you saw either a newer version of quicktime, or some hardware assisted Centris, or another software product running the animation (like supposedly MacroMind's Accelerator?)? Don't misunderstand me, I just want to clarify this. But for the sake of the posting about a computer doing it or not, I can claim 320x200 (a tad more with overscan) being done in 256,000+ colors in my computer (not from the hardisk) at 30fps with Scala MM210. But I agree, if we consider MPEG stuff, I think a multimedia consumer low-priced box has a lot of market... I just think 3DO would make it, no longer CD-I.
This means you would support a ban if it were narrow enough. Good. I would hope so. Let's define a nuclear weapon as an explosive weapon whose majority of energy comes from fission and/or fusion of atomic nuclei. Let's define a biological weapon as live organisms or viruses in such state, quantity, and with such a vector that they could cause death or serious disease [further defined] to a significant number of people if released in a city, similarly populated area, resevoir, or cropland. Nerve gas and mustard gas are well defined. Other poisonous gasses should be individually banned only if it can be shown that there is no use not related to weaponry. Licenses should be available for research purposes on such chemicals. I am not a lawyer, but these ideas could certainly be a basis for definitions. Nope. It is not considered a weapon. It is not defined as a weapon of mass destruction. Many things are banned for other reasons.
How about Kirlian imaging ? I believe the FAQ for sci.skeptics (sp?) has a nice write-up on this. They would certainly be most supportive on helping you to build such a device and connect to a 120Kvolt supply so that you can take a serious look at your "aura"... :-)
/ iftccu:talk.politics.guns / kendall@lds.loral.com (Colin Kendall 6842) / 9:23 am Apr 13, 1993 / Follow more than one months posting. As more than one reader has noted, there IS some reporting bias here. I have seen months where these numbers were reversed. I don't keep a constant tally, but it seems this particular issue had more shots fired than any other I can remember.
For an essay, I am writing about the space shuttle and a need for a better propulsion system. Through research, I have found that it is rather clumsy (i.e. all the checks/tests before launch), the safety hazards ("sitting on a hydrogen bomb"), etc.. If you have any beefs about the current space shuttle program Re: propulsion, please send me your ideas. Thanks a lot.
I'd go for a '39 Lincoln Continental if I could find one. Sad part is that Edsel Ford designed it, and look at the abortion they named after him. Ain't no justice.
. It's my understanding that the U.S. Supreme Court has never given a legal definition of religion. This despite the many cases involving religion that have come before the Court. Can anyone verify or falsify this? Has any state or other government tried to give a legal definition of religion?
Does anybody have any solid data on how many legally owned versus illegally owned firearms are used in crime. I know the number of legally owned guns used in crime is small, but I would like a number, and a reference if possible. Data should be e-mailed to me. Open discussion should be directed to talk.politics.guns -Seth __________________________________________________________________________ [unlike cats] dogs NEVER scratch you when you wash them. They just become very sad and try to figure out what they did wrong. -Dave Barry
I am trying to configure Zsoft's PC Paintbrush IV+ for use with my Logitech Scanman 32 (hand scanner), but I can't get Paintbrush to acknowledge the scanner. Is there anybody out there using Paintbrush with a scanner, if so, can you help me out? Thanks Luis Nobrega
[Andi's posting deleted...] Hamaza's only comment is: Andi, when you get the full-fledged support of Hamaza Salah, you know you're on the wrong track.
I have a Onkyo integrated amplifier that I am looking to get rid of. 60w/ch integra series works great not a problem Asking $100 OBO If your interested call me at (317)743-2656 or email this address. MAKE ME AN OFFER!!! Todd
Dr. cheghadr bA namakand! They just wait until they are teenagers to kill them! huh? Yup. IRI also granted a great deal of reconstruction of houses and buildings in war torn areas to Malaysia. Khak too sareshoon, one of the only industries we really have is construction, and there are all these unemployed youth, and they give money to Malaysia to do what Iranians can and should be doing.
I have personally know quite of few of the Wycliffe Bible Translators. As an organization their fundamental purpose is to translate the scriptures into the native languages which in terms usual means learning it and developing a written language (along with teaching the natives to read). It is not associated with the U.S. govt. at all. Many governments want the help of the translators. To the best of my knowledge the Mexican government now encourages them to come. Their idea is not cultural interference but the presentation of the Good News. To understand more about what they do, I suggest you read some of the books (autobiographical and biographical) about some of the translators. One that stands out in my mind as an excellent is called "Peace Child." This would give a true picture of what their mission is. I agree with this statement, but we cannot also accept what others say without looking into the issues. That would be the same as taking Suddan's discussion about the CIA, etc. as being true. We must look at both sides.
Jeff Fenholt claims to have once been a roadie for Black Sabbath. He was never ever a musician in the band. He was in St. Louis several months back. The poster I saw at the Christian bookstore I frequent really turned me off. It was addressed to all "Homosexuals, prostitutes, drug addicts, alcoholics, and headbangers..." or something like that. Well, if I showed up with my long hair and black leather jacket I would have felt a little pre-judged. As a Orthodox Christian, and a "headbanger" I was slightly insulted at being lumped together with drug addicts and alcoholics. Oh yes, I suppose since I drink a good German beer now and then that makes me an alcoholic. NOT!
Hmmm, let's see: I could upload some .BMP files (I have around 15 b/w and color ones), but I'd rather give you the fishing pole instead of the fish:Here it goes: Begginers guide to the coolest Windows backgrounds: Step 1: ftp to cica (ftp.cica.indiana.edu user:anonymous passwd: guest) cd to pub/pc/win3/(util?desktop?) and get one of these : wingif14.zip, pspro??.zip gws?????.zip . They will scale, dither and convert GIFs to BMPs. get the index file from the win3 subdir too for future reference... Step 2: ftp to wuarchive.wustl.edu or plaza.aarnet.edu.au or archive.orst.edu and cd to graphics/gif GET THE INDEX FILE... Now GigaBytes of pictures are waiting to become your desktop... Advice: If you have a slow computer (<486DX w/4MB RAM), make your bg b/w by selecting b/w dither in any of the abovementioned apps.. Hope it helps...
Do you honestly hold to that tripe Charley? For a start there are enough current versions of the Bible to make comparisons to show that what you write above is utter garbage. Witness JW, Mormon, Catholic, Anglican, and Greek Orthodox Bibles. But to really convince you I'd have to take you to a good old library. In our local library we had a 1804 King James which I compared to a brand new, hot of God's tongue Good News Bible. Genesis was almost unrecognisable, many of the discrepencies between the four gospels had been edited from the Good News Bible. In fact the God of Good News was a much more congenial fellow I must say. If you like I'll get the 1804 King James out again and actually give you some quotes. At least the headings haven't changed much.
I've been saying that for at least 2 years now and even the A's conditioning guru told Jose he was carrying too much weight and losing some would help his back.Although I don't for one second believe Jose used steroids,his back problems are very similar to problems alot of steroid users experience because they are simply carrying too much weight on their frame(see Jeff Bregel ex 49er as a textbook example), and IMHO Jose is too big for his frame. I can't imagine how to estimate bat speed, but its pretty obvious that Jose is missing fastballs he used to hit, likely due to his back. I don't know, he had an even more open stance when he first came up with the A's, and had no problems with it then. It might be that pre-back problems, he was quick enough to cover up any deficiencies the stance caused, but now he's lost just enough bat speed that the stance hurts him. The old saying if you're hot its a trigger mechanism, if you're cold, its a hitch. The biggest problem IMHO is he never has found a stance he's comfortable with for more than a few months. He changes his stance so much, he loses track of where the strike zone is. In Wednesday's night game, he was clearly mad at strike calls on both corners that looked pretty good to me. I think he no longer knows where the strike zone really is because he's changed his stance so much. I'm also a bit concerned that because he's got Palmer and Gonzalez hitting all the homeruns, he'll become competitive, swing even harder and screw himself up even worse. LaRussa always said that Canseco's famous batting practice homer shows did him more harm than good as they encouraged bad hitting habits.
Oh come on, Silly, all you have to do is cut a hole in your hood and put a tube there so you can get to the oil fill hole. What do you think all those big air intake things are for on those hot-rod cars? They're just for looks only...little does anyone know, they provide access to the oil-fill hole.
I wanted to know if any of you out there can recommend a good book about graphics, still and animated, and in VGA/SVGA. Thanks in advance
(2) is a corrallary of (1). The negation of (2) would contridict (1). (2) Is a corrallary of (1) The negation of (2) would contradict (1). -- "Satan and the Angels do not have freewill. They do what god tells them to do. "
> [A very nice article on the DSS, which I thought answered > David Cruz-Uribe's original queries quite well] Here are some books I have read recently that helped me not only prepare for a 5 week series I taught in Sunday School, but greatly increased my knowledge of the Qumran scrolls. [...] One other recent book I would heartily recommend is Joseph Fitzmyer's _Response to 101 Questions about the Dead Sea Scrolls_ (Paulist, 1992). Fitzmyer is one of the preeminent modern NT scholars. He was also one of the early workers on the DSS. His book is written in a straightforward Q&A that allows it to serve as a source for a great wealth of clearly presented basic, up-to-the-moment information about the DSS. (This book is something of a companion volume to Raymond Brown's _Response to 101 Questions about the Dead Sea Scrolls_.) Nichael
These drivers (updated) are available directly from Diamond. they will even ship them to you at no charge.(at least they did for me.)
Concerning Christians praying for coporate forgiveness of national sins, Michael Covington claims the following of C.S. Lewis: <>< I was surprised when I heard this same kind of remark from a fellow grad. student I know, especially since he had seminary training. I have read the same essay and do not find Lewis making any such claim. Rather, Lewis is condemning the use of such coporate prayer efforts as platforms to make political jabs at opponents, feigned as confessions of guilt (ie., Lord please forgive us for allowing "insert political issue/idea/platform" to exist in our country, it is wrong and we ask your forgiveness.). I would be interested in knowing what part of the essay you feel condemns national repentance (please quote).
I was watching the Dodgers/Marlins game yesterday and a couple of things impressed me. First is that the way the sun was shining in Miami, it had a summer atmosphere in early spring for baseball. In comparison Wrigley Field in early April still has a wintry look to it with the dead ivy and bundled up fans. The second and most important was the fans. I like these guys/gals! I will admit I am a football fan first but I still enjoy baseball. It was interesting because most of these fans are only accustomed to the Miami Dolphins. The way they were cheering, I thought it was the AFC playoffs. Of course opening day may have A LOT to do with it, but I really got feeling of electricity that I think is lacking with a lot of baseball fans in other cities. Baseball certainly needs a charge and I hope these two expansion teams bring back some excitement. We'll find out Friday how Denver Bronco fans respond.
maybe the missile didn't hit directly such that his body gets "desintegrated." of course, destroying 10 houses to kill someone is not a surgical operation, or is it?
Hello, I already tried our national news group without success. I tried to replace a friend's original IBM floppy disk in his PS/1-PC with a normal TEAC drive. I already identified the power supply on pins 3 (5V) and 6 (12V), shorted pin 6 (5.25"/3.5" switch) and inserted pullup resistors (2K2) on pins 8, 26, 28, 30, and 34. The computer doesn't complain about a missing FD, but the FD's light stays on all the time. The drive spins up o.k. when I insert a disk, but I can't access it. The TEAC works fine in a normal PC. Are there any points I missed? Thank you. Volkmar
CBD>From: Christopher Bradley Devlin <cd1i+@andrew.cmu.edu> CBD>>but it's nothing compared to the (ahem) unique helmet CBD>>design seen in the new Animated Series: it has a huge opening for his CBD>>mouth, topped by the world's tiniest eyeslits above the enormous mouth CBD>>opening. Batman's helmet probably cuts you down to about 12 degrees of CBD>>unrestricted vision. With a helmet like this, he might just be better CBD>>off with the leather cap/mask thingy. CBD>C'mon, Batman doesn't need to SEE. He's Batman. CBD>Did you notice he only takes the bike out in the snow or rain? So let's see what we have on the Batdude so far: He has a weird helmet. He drags his knee in corners (thanks, Cookson, but how does he do it? Hidden Bat-pucks?), and he only takes the bike out in the snow or rain. Also, he lets Robin ride! I think I could have used a Bat-mom. Would have made getting my license a lot easier! There's a trend here: Stylish helmet, Stylish knee-dragging, rides only in Stylish cartoon precipitation. Hmm . . . Could it be that we're dealing with a veritable airborne mammalian poseur? Dare I say it, a BAT-SQUID?? (huh? Bat-Squid?) It all adds up now . . . Let's make the B-man an honorary DoD DuDe. All he needs is a DoD sticker. Actually, anyone have an address for Batman's current artists, both comic book and animated series? We'll write and ask if Batman would like to become an honorary Denizen! Yeah! Special To The KoTL: Is there a precedent for inducting an imaginary member with an imaginary motorcycle? Having seen the computers in the Bat-Cave, I think we can safely assume that he also has imaginary Internet access. Ryan Cousinetc.|1982 Yamaha Vision XZ550 -Black Pig of Inverness|Live to Ride KotRB |1958 AJS 500 C/S -King Rat |to Work to DoD# 0863 |I'd be a squid if I could afford the bike... |Flame to ryan.cousineau@compdyn.questor.org | Vancouver, BC, Canada |Live . . . * SLMR 2.1a * My (virtual) reality check just bounced.
An added advantate of waiting for the DayStar for the SE/30 is that, just as with the '030 power cache, the '040 accelerator will plug into the CPU socket, leaving the PDS slot free for a video card or ethernet card. With DayStar's upgrade path, it's a no lose situation. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Earl D. Fife | Department of Mathematics fife@calvin.edu | Calvin College (616)957-6403 | Grand Rapids, MI 49546
Government-Mandated Energy Conservation is Unnecessary and Wastful, Study Finds Washington, DC -- The energy tax and subsidized energy-efficiency measures supported by President Clinton and Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary are based on faulty assumptions, a new study from the Cato Institute points out. According to Jerry Taylor, Cato's director of natural resource studies, we are not running out of sources of energy. The world now has almost 10 times the proven oil reserves it had in 1950 and twice the reserves of 1970. Proven reserves of coal and natural gas have increased just as dramatically. When standards of living, population densities, and industrial structures are controlled for, the United States is no less energy efficient than Japan and more energy efficient than many of the Group of Seven nations. Energy independence provides little protection against domestic oil price shocks because the energy economy is global. Moreover, since the cost of oil represents only about 2 percent of gross national product, even large increases in the price of oil would have little impact on the overall U.S. economy. Market economies are, on average, 2.75 times more energy efficient per $1,000 of GNP than are centrally planned economies. Utilities' subsidized energy-efficiency measurs, known as demand-side management programs, encourage free riders, overuse of competing resource inputs, an competitive inequities. Furthermore, DSM programs do not reduce demand. Taylor concludes that government-mandated energy conservation imposes unnecessary costs on consumers and wastes, not conserves, energy; that subsidizing energy-conservation technologies will stymie, not advance, gains in energy conservation; and that central control over the lifeblood of modern society--energy--would transfer tremendous power to the state at the expense of the individual. "Energy Conservation and Efficiency: The Case Against Coercion" is no. 189 in the Policy Analysis series published by the Cato Institute, an independent public policy research organization in Washington, DC. Available from: Cato Institute 224 Second Street SE Washington, DC 20003 --------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Cato Institute Founded in 1977, the Cato Institute is a public policy research foundation dedicated to broadening the parameters of policy debate to allow consideration of more options that are consistent with the traditional American principles of limited government, individual liberty, and peace. To that end, the Institute strives to achieve greater involvement of the intelligent, concerned lay public in questions of policy and the proper role of government. The Institute is named for Cato's Letters, libertarian pamphlets that were widely read in the American Colonies in the early 18th century and played a major role in laying the philosophical foundation of the American Revolution. Despite the achievement of the nation's Founders, today virtually no aspect of life is free from government encroachment. A pervasive intolerance for individual rights is shown by government's arbitrary intrusions into private economic transactions and its disregard for civil liberties. To counter that trend the Cato Institute undertakes an extensive publications program that addresses the complete spectrum of policy issues. Books, monographs, and shorter studies are commissioned to examine the federal budget, Social Security, regulation, military spending, international trade, and myriad other issues. Major policy conferences are held throughout the year, from which papers are published thrice yearly in the Cato Journal. In order to maintain its independence, the Cato Institute accepts no government funding. Contributions are received from foundations, corporations, and individuals, and other revenue is generated from the sale of publications. The Institute is a nonprofit, tax-exempt, educational foundation under Section 501(c)3 of the Internal Revenue Code.
I disagree with your claim that Jews were not evangelistic (except in the narrow sense of the word). Jewish proselytism was widespread. There are numerous accounts of Jewish proselytism, both in the New Testament and in Roman and Greek documents of the day.
I have a request for those who would like to see Charley Wingate respond to the "Charley Challenges" (and judging from my e-mail, there appear to be quite a few of you.) It is clear that Mr. Wingate intends to continue to post tangential or unrelated articles while ingoring the Challenges themselves. Between the last two re-postings of the Challenges, I noted perhaps a dozen or more posts by Mr. Wingate, none of which answered a single Challenge. It seems unmistakable to me that Mr. Wingate hopes that the questions will just go away, and he is doing his level best to change the subject. Given that this seems a rather common net.theist tactic, I would like to suggest that we impress upon him our desire for answers, in the following manner: 1. Ignore any future articles by Mr. Wingate that do not address the Challenges, until he answers them or explictly announces that he refuses to do so. --or-- 2. If you must respond to one of his articles, include within it something similar to the following: "Please answer the questions posed to you in the Charley Challenges." Really, I'm not looking to humiliate anyone here, I just want some honest answers. You wouldn't think that honesty would be too much to ask from a devout Christian, would you? Nevermind, that was a rhetorical question.
Yeah, the "Feingold Diet" is a load of crap. Children diagnosed with ADD who are placed on this diet show no improvement in their intellectual and social skills, which in fact continue to decline. Of course, the parents who are enthusiastic about this approach lap it up at the expense of their children's development. So much for the value of "interesting anecdotal results". People will believe anything if they want to.
It only falls apart if you attempt to apply it. This doesn't mean that an objective system can't exist. It just means that one cannot be implemented.
: Thanks to all those people who recommended Workspace managers for : Windows 3.1. I found 3 shareware Workspace Managers, from Australia's : MS-WINDOWS archive (monu6.cc.monash.edu.au), which mirrors some : sites in the U.S. The three I found were: : : 1. WORKSPACES 1.10 (wspace.zip) [ review deleted ] : 2. WORKSHIFT 1.6 (wrksft16.zip) [ review deleted ] : 3. BIGDESK 2.30 and BACKMENU (backdesk.zip) [ review deleted ] I really appreciate this information. However, given that I don't have direct Internet access - which means I don't have Archie access - I must resort to using FTPMAIL. This means that I need the site name and the directory where these workspace managers are located. So, can you (or anyone else) post or Email me the needed information? Thanks very much!!! Chris --
: It occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you, and the escrow : houses release your code to the cops, your code is now no longer secure. : : It's in the hands of cops, and while I am sure most of the time they are : good, their security will not be as good as the escrow houses. : : : What this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you, : at the end of the wiretap, they should be obligated to inform you that : a tap was performed, and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your : cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the : escrow houses. Getting the court order to reveal the key *also* makes decipherable all *past* conversations (which may be on tape, or disk, or whatver), as I understand the proposal. I could be wrong, but I've seen no mention of "session keys" being the escrowed entities. As the EFF noted, this raises further issues about the fruits of one bust leading to incrimination in other areas. But is it any worse than the current unsecure system? It becomes much worse, of course, if the government then uses this "Clinton Clipper" to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (This is the main concern of most of us, I think. The camel's nose in the tent, etc.) And it may also become much worse if the ostensible security is increased, thus allowing greater access to "central office" records by the government (the conversations being encrypted, who will object to letting the government have access to them, perhaps even automatically archiving large fractions...). This was one of the main objections to the S.266 proposal, that it would force telecom suppliers to provide easy access for the government. One the government has had access to months or years of your encrypted conversations, now all it takes is one misstep, one violation that gets them the paperwork needed to decrypt *all* of them! Do we want anyone to have this kind of power? -Tim May, whose sig block may get him busted in the New Regime
Can anyone recommend a good place for reasonably priced bike paint jobs, preferably but not essentially in the London area. Thanks Lisa Rowlands
------------------------------------------------------------------------- One reason that the WHA abandoned the blue puck was the fact that it crumbled very quickly during play. The blue dye that was used somehow affected the vulcanized rubber of the puck, decreasing its cohesiveness.
Hi all, I would like to purchase CD-ROM drive. The specs I would like to have is: * Applicable to Kodak multisession Photo-CD * SCSI(2) Interface * Compatible with Adaptec-1542B * Does not need any caddies * Cheaper ( < $500 if possible) * Double Speeded I believe there are no drives satisfying all of the above condition, so I would like to know all of your opinion. The above conditions are sorted by my priority. I think NEC CDR74-1/84-1 is a little bit expensive, but it DOES satisfy almost all of the above conditions. The problem is that I do not know the compatibility with 1542B. Has someone succeeded to connect these NEC drives to 1542B? I have heard a rumor that NEC drive is incompatible with 1542B adapter. Any suggestions are greatly appreciated.
What files do I need to download for GhostScript 2.5.2? I have never used GhostScript before, so I don't have any files for it. What I *do* have is gs252win.zip, which I downloaded from Cica. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to work on it's own, but needs some more files that I don't have. I want to run GhostScript both in Windows 3.1 and in MS-DOS on a 386 PC (I understand there's versions for both environments). What are all the files I need to download and where can I get them? Any info would be appeciated. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Steve W Brewer rewerB W evetS cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu ude.ellivsiuol.xvyklu@504832lc
Posting for a friend. Contact directly or leave e-mail and I can forward. Brand spanking new. Still in original package. Never opened. Dayna EtherPrint-T. RJ-45 connector to support 10BASE-T-compliant networks. Connect LocalTalk-compatible printers directly to Ethernet networks. Will work with _ANY_ LocalTalk-compatible network printer, such as LaserWriter ImageWriter IBM 4216 Personal Page Printer II Hewlett-Packard DeskWriter Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printer family QUME printers Can daisy-chain a maximum of 4 LocalTalk devices, such as workstations modems printers to a single EtherPrint device. Support AppleTalk Phase 1 and Phase 2 protocols. $300 + shipping. Cheap ... $329 new without 10BASE-T in MAC World.
CALL FOR PRESENTATIONS NAVY SCIENTIFIC VISUALIZATION AND VIRTUAL REALITY SEMINAR Tuesday, June 22, 1993 Carderock Division, Naval Surface Warfare Center (formerly the David Taylor Research Center) Bethesda, Maryland SPONSOR: NESS (Navy Engineering Software System) is sponsoring a one-day Navy Scientific Visualization and Virtual Reality Seminar. The purpose of the seminar is to present and exchange information for Navy-related scientific visualization and virtual reality programs, research, developments, and applications. PRESENTATIONS: Presentations are solicited on all aspects of Navy-related scientific visualization and virtual reality. All current work, works-in-progress, and proposed work by Navy organizations will be considered. Four types of presentations are available. 1. Regular presentation: 20-30 minutes in length 2. Short presentation: 10 minutes in length 3. Video presentation: a stand-alone videotape (author need not attend the seminar) 4. Scientific visualization or virtual reality demonstration (BYOH) Accepted presentations will not be published in any proceedings, however, viewgraphs and other materials will be reproduced for seminar attendees. ABSTRACTS: Authors should submit a one page abstract and/or videotape to: Robert Lipman Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division Code 2042 Bethesda, Maryland 20084-5000 VOICE (301) 227-3618; FAX (301) 227-5753 E-MAIL lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil Authors should include the type of presentation, their affiliations, addresses, telephone and FAX numbers, and addresses. Multi-author papers should designate one point of contact. DEADLINES: The abstact submission deadline is April 30, 1993. Notification of acceptance will be sent by May 14, 1993. Materials for reproduction must be received by June 1, 1993. For further information, contact Robert Lipman at the above address. PLEASE DISTRIBUTE AS WIDELY AS POSSIBLE, THANKS. Robert Lipman | Internet: lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil David Taylor Model Basin - CDNSWC | or: lip@ocean.dt.navy.mil Computational Signatures and | Voicenet: (301) 227-3618 Structures Group, Code 2042 | Factsnet: (301) 227-5753 Bethesda, Maryland 20084-5000 | Phishnet: stockings@long.legs
I've been saying this for quite some time, but being absent from the net for a while I figured I'd stick my neck out a bit... The Royals will set the record for fewest runs scored by an AL team since the inception of the DH rule. (p.s. any ideas what this is?) They will fall easily short of 600 runs, that's for damn sure. I can't believe these media fools picking them to win the division (like our Tom Gage of the Detroit News claiming Herk Robinson is some kind of genius for the trades/aquisitions he's made) c-ya Sean
Why don't you consider PHIGS in X or PEX lib?
Brand new, still shrink wraped Stealth 24 for sale $150 plus shipping and COD. Specifications: Based on S3 801/805 32bit coporcessor, 1024x768x256 72Hz Ni, 800x600x64K NI, 640x480x16million NI, system requires 386 or 486 based ISA or VESA VL-BUS, with fast TurboWindows drivers for 3.1 and other drivers for other popular softwares like WP, Microsoft Word,Lotus,AutoCad.
First of all as far as I know, only male homosexuality is explicitly mentioned in the bibles, so you're off the hook there, I think. In any event, there are *plenty* of people in many denominations who do not consider a person's sexual identification of gay/lesbian/bisexual as an "immoral lifestyle choice" This is another misconception. You are not being told the whole story. My former minister is a lesbian, and I know personally and professionally several openly gay and lesbian ministers. I am a Unitarian-Universalist and like most others in my denomination, am pro-choice. You needn't go looking to the Unitarian Universalists (which is a liberal religion) for acceptance of your sexual identification and pro-choice views, however; there are many of us who believe in spirituality AND freedom of conscience. Good Luck on your journey!
Jesus: Black and white. A spade is a spade. There is no hidden agenda behind this, so stop trying to look for one. It is an easy and as straight forward as it reads. Kent, I am not accusing you of evil things. Jesus is accusing you. And it is not only you that He is accusing. He is accusing everyone. Me, you and everyone in the world is guilty. Whether one sees the light or does not seen the light has nothing to do with whether we do evil things. We do them regardless. Jesus uses the word "men". I am included. Jesus is not soloing you out. Jesus is making a general statement about out the sad state of man. Christians are not immuned from doing evil things. A Christian is just a person in whom the Holy Spirit indwells. A Christian can see the evil he is doing--because his evil has been brought out into the light. Jesus is not saying that just because evil has been exposed, that the Christian will stop doing evil. If you haven't seen Jesus's light, your evil deeds simply haven't been exposed to the His light. You may shed some light on your own. Your human spirit shines at perhaps 1 candela. But the Holy Spirit shines at a Megacandela. The Holy Spirit can shine light into places inside us where we didn't even know existed. So do you see Jesus's point? Christians are not perfect. Nonchristians are not perfect. Nonchristians do not want to come into the Light of Jesus because they will see all the problems in their lives, and they will not like the sight. It is an ugly thing to see how far we have fallen from Jesus's perspective. Do you think you want to know how really ignorant you are? Do you think Brian Kendig wants to know? Do you think I want to know? Ego verses the truth, which do you choose? And I watched Koresh too, an imposter who thought he saw the light, who made sure that the 19 children burned to death, sadly, as part of his delusion. It is even sadder that the people who died with him chose to die with them, and that ignorance was their downfall to death. And Kent, don't you bury yourself underneath a rock with an excuse like bringing up Koresh--as if Koresh actually had truth in him. David Koresh was no light and no excuse for you to stay away from the real Jesus Christ. David Koresh, who claimed to be Jesus, was a fraud. It was obvious. David Koresh was born in America. Jesus was born in Bethlehem. Koresh wasn't even a good imposter having missed an obvious point as that. Jesus warned of such imposters in the end-times. David Koresh wasn't anything new to Jesus. Jesus told us to be aware of imposters 2000 years ago. So the next time an imposter makes a scene and claims to be Jesus. Ask the obvious. Where were you born? Was your mother's name Mary? If the Branch Davidians asked that simple question, they would have labeled Koresh a liar right from the start. The wouldn't have followed Koresh. They wouldn't have died. But look what happened. Their ignorance cost them their lives. Their choice to be ignorant cost them a lot. Kent, since you studied the Bible under Lutheranism, do you not remember what tactic Satan used to try to tempt Jesus? Did not Satan quote the Bible out of context? Do you remember what tactic the serpent of Genesis used to tempt Eve? Did he not misquote God? What Satan used on Eve and succeeded, was the same ploy he tried on Jesus. But in Jesus's case, Jesus rebuked Satan back with the Bible _in_ context. It didn't work with Jesus. Does what Satan did to Eve in the Garden and what Satan tried to do with Jesus in the desert remind you of what Koresh did to his followers? Who did Koresh emulate? Who was Koresh's teacher? Koresh did to his followers what Satan did to Eve. Did not Koresh kill his followersr? Did not Satan cause Adam and Eve to die as well? Did not the cult followers believe Koresh even though they knew the real Christ was born in Bethlehem? Did not Eve choose to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil despite knowing that it would cause her death? God held them all responsible--deceiver and the rebeller. None of them had an excuse.
After reading the service manual for my bike (Suzuki GS500E--1990) I have a couple of questions I hope you can answer: When checking the oil level with the dip stick built into the oil fill cap, does one check it with the cap screwed in or not? I am more used to the dip stick for a cage where the stick is extracted fully, wiped clean and reinserted fully, then withdrawn and read. The dip stick on my bike is part of the oil filler cap and has about 1/2 inch of threads on it. Do I remove the cap, wipe the stick clean and reinsert it with/without screwing it down before reading? The service manual calls for the application of Suzuki Bond No. 1207B on the head cover. I guess this is some sort of liquid gasket material. do you know of a generic (cheaper) substitute? My headlight is a Halogen 60/55 W bulb. Is there an easy, brighter replacement bulb available? Where should I look for one? As always, I very much appreciate your help. The weather in Philadelphia has finally turned WARM. This weekend I saw lotsa bikes, and the riders ALL waved. A nice change of tone from what Philadelphia can be like. . . . Chris
Maybe I should point out that we are not talking about c.s.amiga.*. Only comp.graphics.
We have been shipping for over one year the Adobe Display PostScript (DPS) on Silicon Graphics workstations, file servers, and supercomputers. The Adobe Illustrator 3.5 for Silicon Graphics machines was released last February. Adobe and SGI announced last October that Photoshop will be available on SGI systems in 1993. Initial release will support 24-bit color graphics.
Visual Numerics Inc. (formerly IMSL and Precision Visuals) is in the process of securing sites for beta testing X Exponent Graphics 1.0 and C Exponent Graphics 2.0. (Both X Exponent Graphics and C Exponent Graphics are 3GL products). The beta period is from April 26 through June 18. The platform is HP9000/700 running under OS 8.07 with ansi C 8.71 compiler. The media will be sent on 4mm DAT cartridge tape. Here are some of the key facts about the two products. X Exponent Graphics 1.0 key facts: 1. Complete collection of high-level 2D and 3D application plot types available through a large collection of X resources. 2. Cstom widget for OSF/Motif developers. 3. Built-in interactive GUI for plot customization. 4. Easily-implemented callbacks for customized application feedback. 5. XEG 1.0, being built on the Xt Toolkit provides the user a widget library that conforms to the expected syntax and standards familar to X programmers. 6. XEG will also be sold as a bundle with Visual Edge's UIM/X product. This will enable user to use a GUI builder to create the graphical layout of an application. C Exponent Graphics 2.0 key facts: 1. Written in C for C application programmers/developers. The library is 100% written in C, and the programming interface conforms to C standards, taking advantage fo the most desirable features of C. 2. Build-in GUI for interactive plot customization. Through mouse interaction, the user has complete interactive graph output control with over 200 graphics attributes for plot customization. 3. Large collection of high-level application functions for "two-call" graph creation. A wide variety of 2D and 3D plot types are available with minimal programming effort. 4. User ability to interrupt and control the X event. By controlling the X event loop, when the user use the mouse to manipulate the plot the user can allow CEG to control the event loop or the user can control the event loop. If anyone is interested in beta testing either of the products, please contact Wendy Hou at Visual Numerics via email at hou@imsl.com or call 713-279-1066. -- Jaclyn Brandt jbrandt@NeoSoft.com
I did hear this question asked during a radio news update of the case. (They were talking about the ongoing trial and had some audio clips). Immediately after the defense attorney asked the question, there was an "Objection!" heard in the background. The clip ended at that point so I don't know if the objection was upheld. I can't imagine NC is *that* bad. This I didn't hear as an audio clip but heard it reported a number of times on news stories both during and after the trial. Now the "we did it on purpose" thing is stretching, I think it was something more like--he had it coming. If somebody else remebers better than I on this second point, feel free to clarify. Frank -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Frank R. Chloupek CHLOUPEK@ohstpy.mps.ohio-state.edu Department of Physics -- *The* Ohio State University (Not just any Ohio State University)
About 18 months ago, I heard a report on NPR about a 900-number "1-900-STO-PPER" or some such, for placing untraceable calls. You call them, and on "bong" tone dial the number you want to call; they told the NPR interviewer that nothing short of a court order (which they'd fight) would make them release their records. Matt Healy "I pretend to be a network administrator; the lab net pretends to work"
Oh yeah, and men just haaaaate to brag about "how many woman they've had."
Of course, free trade and slavery don't make much sense together in a phrase anyway. Perhaps Mr. Depken meant, "low import tariffs," but that is quite a bit less than "free trade."
@>> @>>Has anyone had any experience with GEICO's extended @>>warranty plan. It seems to be slightly less expensive than @>>the normal dealer-sponsored policy. @>> @>and once again....*never* buy extended warranties....they are a complete and @>total ripoff period!!!! you are better off taking your money and putting it @> in a bank and using that money for repairs. many extended warranties never @>pay or have co-payments etc. @> How many people will actually put that money in the bank and keep it there for the sole use of a automotive repair......maybe for people who have a hard time saving money or don't want the hassle of worrying about paying for everything the extended warranty is worth it.....for some people it is worth it...others not, and for some the peace of mind knowing you won't have too many unexpected expenses is enough.....if you drive a lot, your basic warranty can be up in a little longer than a year....how many people can make the car payments as well as large repairs.... It may work for some people...... Andrew --
[ a lot of religious opinions and quotations from the Bible and from many Catholic theologians and Papal Bulls ] [ which, although introduced with a smiley, was not as funny as it might have been (notable exception: subject headers such as "ONE'S DICK IS ONE'S INSTRUMENT OF REDEMPTION." ] [ and indeed, the posting seemed to be more a vehicle for the religious text than for any "literary/moral analysis" ] I am surprised and saddened. I would expect this kind of behavior from the Evangelical Born-Again Gospel-Thumping In-Your-Face We're- The-Only-True-Christian Protestants, but I have always thought that Catholics behaved better than this. Friend Dennis, I urge you to follow the example of your fellow Catholics, of who I count many dozens as my friends, and practice your faith through good example and decent living and respect for the common humanity of others. Please do not stoop to the level of the E B-A G-T I-Y-F W-T-O-T-C Protestants, who think that the best way to witness is to be strident, intrusive, loud, insulting and overbearingly self-righteous. The imagery in the Song of Solomon is a little bit dated (get it? Middle East - date palms - oh, never mind) but apparently acceptable, on a steaminess level, to be accepted as part of the canon. From this fact I derive that erotica itself is not incompatible with Catholic doctrine. Is there such a thing as Catholic erotica? Not necessarily a love story between people of that faith, but a love story that is not exploitative, does not seek redemption through penis size, pays proper respect to the dignity of each partner, and is still erotic enough to have a place on a.s.s. I would submit that the _Darknites_ series of stories qualify, also most of the _Journal Entries_, and _Rings I and II_. I would guess that your aim is to cut down on the pornography and increase the erotica. I actually agree with you that nearly all of the "I've got an enormous dick, and I shot my wad all over her face" stories are crap. I count them as noise, which makes my take on the signal-to-noise ration much lower than many other people's. Since you are one of the few posters here who can actually write decent prose, could you write a few stories for us instead of overwhelming us with commentary? -- Thank you.
The Quadralink by AE is a possibly problematical solution to your needs. I've used one for the last 4 (?) years on my personal system, but a fatal bug has crept into their more recent s/w. The bug only shows up during heavy serial traffic but completely crashes the system (MacsBug can not reboot, time to hit the restart button). AE told me in January that they were aware of and working on fixing the bug which I described to them. Since then they have not answered any of my faxes asking them for a status of the bug-fix. The QL has been great, but for now I have mine sidelined. If you are only going to be using 2400 Baud or less, then you may have no, or very infrequent problems,
Short of changes by the feds, there is no way. Codeine alone is very difficult to prescribe without a lot of hassles. Tylenol #3 is the best compromise. That way he can get refills. The amount of acetominophen he is getting with his codeine won't hurt him any. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
I hear Daigle will eb the first pick next year. What is the word on Kariya??? Anybody ever seen him play on TV???? Is he also entering the draft???
Superficially a good answer, but it isn't that simple. An awful lot of the starvation and poverty in the world is directly caused by the economic policies of the Western countries, as well as by the diet of the typical Westerner. For instance, some third-world countries with terrible malnutrition problems export all the soya they can produce -- so that it can be fed to cattle in the US, to make tender juicy steaks and burgers. They have to do this to get money to pay the interest on the crippling bank loans we encouraged them to take out. Fund-raising for Ethiopia is a truly bizarre idea; instead, we ought to stop bleeding them for every penny they've got. Perhaps it's more accurate to say that there's a Western ethic against Western infanticide. All the evidence suggests that so long as the children are dying in the Third World, we couldn't give a shit. And that goes for the supposed "Pro-Life" movement, too. They could save far more lives by fighting against Third World debt than they will by fighting against abortion. Hell, if they're only interested in fetuses, they could save more of those by fighting for human rights in China. And besides, Suzanne's answer implies that non-Western countries lack this ethic against infanticide. Apart from China, with its policy of mandatory forced abortion in Tibet, I don't believe this to be the case.
The final stages of denial... I can hardly imagine what the result would have been if the Clinton administration had actually supported this plan, instead of merely acquiescing with repugnance as they've so obviously doing. I don't believe the chip originated with the Clinton administration either, but the Clinton administration has embraced it and brought it to fruition. Both of the major parties have what they consider excellent reasons for limiting your freedoms and violating your privacy, and even seem to feel that they're doing you a favor. If this is really surprising to anyone it means they've been willfully ignoring quite a bit of previous evidence. There's only one political party (not calling anarchists a party) that considers your freedom and privacy goals worthy in and of themselves. If you're voting for the big two, you're supporting a reduction of those rights (given their goals and their histories), regardless of whether you personally support that reduction. To paint Clinton and Gore as unwitting tools is really stretching things.
Great interview with Benjamin Netanyahu on CNN - Larry King Live (4/15/93) This guy is knows what he is talking about. He is truely charismatic, articulate, intelligent, and demonstrates real leadership qualities. I agree, but I wish I liked his politics.
Hmmm. I seem to recall that the attraction of solid state record- players and radios in the 1960s wasn't better performance but lower per-unit cost than vacuum-tube systems. Mind you, my father was a vacuum-tube fan in the 60s (Switched to solid-state in the mid-seventies and then abruptly died; no doubt there's a lesson in that) and his account could have been biased.
I can't tell if Matt is being sarcastic here or not, but to be honest, many automobiles are worth far more to their owners (in $$ value and $$ investment) than the people that would take them. I don't have figures on average property tax in the U.S. or how much of it is allocated for housing projects, inferior public schools, jails, or the like, but I have a feeling that the amount the government steals from an honest, productive citizen to breed this trash is significantly less than the value of many automobiles. And for those who will argue that the animals out there stealing cars and everything else (not to mention committing COMPLETELY senseless acts of violence, such as rape) cannot be valued in terms of money because they are human beings, I submit that they are not human beings. Jim Callison, I think, is on the right track. And Chintan Amin remarked earlier that we cannot blame environment for the actions of a single criminal. I couldn't agree more. One could trace any crime back to the environment/upbringing of the criminal; should we let all of them out, from pickpockets to rapists to inside traders, because what they did wasn't their fault? Where does one draw the line? $0.02
Peter, I think you are ridiculous here. Stupidity is not a measure of how well someone knows our judicial system. I guess Marc meant that he is against death penalty. But no matter what he meant, your statement not justified. Regards,
: > Sure it isn't mutually exclusive, but it lends weight to (i.e. increases : > notional running estimates of the posterior probability of) the : > atheist's pitch in the partition, and thus necessarily reduces the same : > quantity in the theist's pitch. This is because the `divine component' : > falls prey to Ockham's Razor, the phenomenon being satisfactorily : ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ : > explained without it, and there being no independent evidence of any : ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ : > such component. More detail in the next post. : > Occam's Razor is not a law of nature, it is way of analyzing an argument, even so, it interesting how often it's cited here and to what end. It seems odd that religion is simultaneously condemned as being primitive, simple-minded and unscientific, anti-intellectual and childish, and yet again condemned as being too complex (Occam's razor), the scientific explanation of things being much more straightforeward and, apparently, simpler. Which is it to be - which is the "non-essential", and how do you know? Considering that even scientists don't fully comprehend science due to its complexity and diversity. Maybe William of Occam has performed a lobotomy, kept the frontal lobe and thrown everything else away ... This is all very confusing, I'm sure one of you will straighten me out tough.
-> I saw an interesting product in NY Auto Show, and would like to hear -> your comments. -> -> MILITECH(tm) is yet another oil additive. But the demonstration of -> this product really impressive, if it didn't cheat. Well, I heard that Militech stuff works pretty good too.. One of my friends who races in SCCA sanctioned events and all that stuff got the Militech stuff early as a trial thing, and he put it in his CRX.. He says it worked great, but I didn't ask him for any details. -Erich erich.lim@yob.sccsi.com
Boy that was really humorous. I'm impressed by your incredible senses of wit, sarcasm and propriety. Mind if I post jokes about your mother?
Tom's right about this. It's only a grantable right if the granter has the will and the ability to stop anyone from taking it away from you. Never mind the legal status. Nick's right about this. It's always easier to obtain forgiveness than permission. Not many people remember that Britain's King George III expressly forbid his american subjects to cross the alleghany/appalachian mountains. Said subjects basically said, "Stop us if you can." He couldn't. That's how the USA started. Of course, that's also how the Bolivarian Republic started (ca. 1800-1820) in central america. It didn't have quite the staying power of the USA. I'm sure there are more examples of going far away and then ignoring authority, but none jump to mind right now. Or do as some whaling nations do: define whatever activities you want to carry out as "scientific research" which just coincidentally requires the recovery of megatonnes of minerals (or whatever), then go at it. Lute Keyser had just this sort of arrangement with Libya (I think) in the late '70's for his commercial space launch project (one of the very earliest). It was killed by Soviet propaganda about NATO cruise missiles in Africa, which made Libya renege on the arrangement.
No. That's *not* what I was complaining about, nor did I intend to suggest that DEC was any better than SGI (let me tell you about the Lynx some day, but be prepared with a large sedative if you do...). My comment regarding DEC was to indicate that I might be open to other vendors that supported OpenGL, rather than deal further with SGI. What I *am* annoyed about is the fact that we were led to believe that we *would* be able to upgrade to a multiprocessor version of the Crimson without the assistance of a fork lift truck. I'm also annoyed about being sold *several* Personal IRISes at a previous site on the understanding *that* architecture would be around for a while, rather than being flushed. Now I understand that SGI is responsible to its investors and has to keep showing a positive quarterly bottom line (odd that I found myself pressured on at least two occasions to get the business on the books just before the end of the quarter), but I'm just a little tired of getting boned in the process. Maybe it's because my lab buys SGIs in onesies and twosies, so we aren't entitled to a "peek under the covers" as the Big Kids (NASA, for instance) are. This lab, and I suspect that a lot of other labs and organizations, doesn't have a load of money to spend on computers every year, so we can't be out buying new systems on a regular basis. The boxes that we buy now will have to last us pretty much through the entire grant period of five years and, in some case, beyond. That means that I need to buy the best piece of equipment that I can when I have the money, not some product that was built, to paraphrase one previous poster's words, 'to fill a niche' to compete with some other vendor. I'm going to be looking at this box for the next five years. And every time I look at it, I'm going to think about SGI and how I could have better spent my money (actually *your* money, since we're supported almost entirely by Federal tax dollars). Now you'll have to pardon me while I go off and hiss and fume in a corner somewhere and think dark, libelous thoughts. spl
Another issue of importance. Was the crucification the will of God or a tragic mistake. I believe it was a tragic mistake. God's will can never be accomplished through the disbelief of man. Jesus came to this world to build the kingdom of heaven on the earth. He desperately wanted the Jewish people to accept him as the Messiah. If the crucification was the will of God how could Jesus pray that this cup pass from him. Was this out of weakness. NEVER. Many men and women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes. Is Jesus less than these. No he is not. He knew the crucification was NOT the will of GOD. God's will was that the Jewish people accept Jesus as the Messiah and that the kingdom of Heaven be established on the earth with Jesus as it's head. (Just like the Jewish people expected). If this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what kind of world we would live in today. It would be a very different world. And that is eactly what GOD wanted. Men and women of that age could have been saved by following the living Messiah while he was on the earth. Jesus could have established a sinless lineage that would have continued his reign after his ascension to the spiritual world to live with GOD. Now the kingdom of heaven on the earth will have to wait for Christ's return. But when he returns will he be recognized and will he find faith on this earth. Isn't it about time for his return. It's been almost 2000 years. Mike And the two simplest refutations are these: (1) What impact? The only record of impact comes from the New Testament. I have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate, and that the recorded "impact" actually happened. I find it interesting that no other contemporary source records an eclipse, an earthquake, a temple curtain being torn, etc. The earliest written claim we have of Jesus' resurrection is from the Pauline epistles, none of which were written sooner than 20 years after the supposed event. (2) It seems probable that no one displayed the body of Jesus because no one knew where it was. I personally believe that the most likely explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples, or by graverobbers). Don't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one gospel, and seems like exactly the sort of thing early Christians might make up in order to counter the grave-robbing charge. The New Testament does record that Jews believed the body had been stolen. If there were really guards, they could not have effectively made this claim, as they did.
Sony D-22 portable Diskman forsale Good condition, flawless. Costomer AC adapter : 6v DC power supply ( tested 9v DC) * The factory adapter was tested 12v DC (AC 110v input) at the time I bought it three years ago. When using it, a lot of heat was generated inside the CD machine. Of course I wouldn't use it to risk this baby's life. Maybe that's why so many owners always complain about their portable machine going kaput after a short time usage. * 9v DC factory suggested LED display
It could be one of the leukodystrophies (not adrenal, only boys get that). Surely you've been to a university pediatric neurology department. If not that is the next step. Biopsies might help, especially if peripheral nerves are also affected. There are so many of these diseases that would fit the symptoms you gave that more can't be said at this time. I agree with your surmise that it is an autosomal recessive. If so, your normal children won't have to worry too much unless they marry near relatives. Most recessive genes are rare except in inbred communities (e.g. Lithuanian Jews). -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
: >True, man did not invent the need for food, shelter, warmth and the ilk, : >but man did invent the property laws and the laws of trespass. : But how do you think property is generated ? Does it grow automatically : on trees when we wish so, or someone has to produce it ? Some say it was generated by God or Goddess; some say it was the result of the coalescence of billions of tons of interstellar debris. In either case, the property of which Xavier speaks has been around for millions of years. : It all follows from the fact that Mother Nature does not : provide us automatically with our needs, Oh? When did She *stop*? Mother Nature has been automatically providing us with her bounty ever since we crawled out of the primordial ooze. It is not "produced": it produces itself, year after year. Last night, for example, I saw four deer crossing the road (pretty sight, too); in an earlier time, one of them would have been dinner. : There are 2 ways to go with produced things: the first is to : _trade_ it with the the person(s) who produced it. : The other one is to take it with a gun from the person who produced : it. The first way is the civilized method, the second is how savages : arrange their affairs. The American Indians had no concept of ownership of property, and often freely gave of their supplies to neighboring tribes, trading food and clothing for weapons or services. The Native Hawaiians, like their Polynesian ancestors, also could not conceive of that idea, and shared many things with the other Islanders. In fact, "hi'ipoi", the Hawaiian word for "cherish" means "sharing food". The Great Mahele, in which the Islands were divided up more-or-less evenly between the rich and the poor, was a white man's idea. In Africa, villagers will often share tools, crops, and clothing with other members of their own village and neighboring villages. Every anthropologist who has ever been to Africa has at least one tale of the difficulties arising from the so- called "theft" of the scientists possessions -- two concepts of which, until the visitors came along, the natives had no understanding. These are the people we call "savages". On the other hand, car-jackings and muggings are up from last year. Dov, before you make further comment on this thread, I think it would behoove you to study *all* of the facts.
All I know is that the Megadrives worked perfectly on both my Mac Plus and my Powerbook 140. It was for this reason I assumed the problem had something to do with the Quadra. Even with the Quadra, they mostly worked OK. The problem occurred when I ejected a cartridge from a drive: it would start popping up dialog boxes saying "This cartridge must be formatted with Jasmine Driveware" even though there was no cartridge in the drive.
I have a few things to sell. All items are in great condition. All prices include shipping. If you have any questions contact me by E-Mail or call me at (814)234-4439. Darryl DJ Equipment ======================================================================= - Mixer Case (with pop-up rails) $60 - (2) Patch Cords (3 meters, Gold Tips) $15 Records ======================================================================= Casualties Of War (12 inch single) Eric B. & Rakim $2 Get Some (12 inch single) EYC & Boo-Ya Tribe $2 Black's Magic Salt & Pepa $2 Heart Break New Edition $2 The Right Stuff Vanessa Williams $2 Misc ======================================================================= Toshiba FT6000 Cordless Phone $50
It has some of the most impressive performance figures around, and automotive magazines eat it up. One car to seriously consider in that price range. Rob Fusi rwf2@lehigh.edu
It is very encouraging that a number of people took so interest in my posting.I recieved a couple of letters too,some has debated the statement that events in Bosnia are unprecedented in the history of the modern world.Those who contest this statement present the figures of the World War II.However we must keep in mind that it was a World War and no country had the POWER to stop it,today is the matter not of the POWER but of the WILL.It seems to be that what we lack is the will. Second point of difference (which makes it different from the holocast(sp?) ) is that at that time international community didnot have enough muscle to prevent the unfortunate event, today inspite of all the might,the international community is not just standing neutral but has placed an arms embargo which is to the obvious disadvantage of the weeker side and therefore to the advantage of the bully.Hence indirecltly and possibly unintentionally, mankind has sided with the killers.And this,I think is unprecedented in the history of the modern world.
Does ANYONE out there in Net-land have any information on the Cobra 2.20 card? The sticker on the end of the card reads Model: Cobra 1-B-1 Bios: Cobra v2.20 I Havn't been able to find anything about it from anyone! If you have any information on how to get a hold of the company which produces the card or know where any drivers are for it, PLEASE let me know! As far as I can tell, it's a CGA card that is taking up 2 of my 16-bit ISA slots but when I enable the test patterns, it displays much more than the usualy 4 CGA colors... At least 16 from what I can count.. Thanks! .------------------------------------------. : Internet: jele@eis.calstate.edu : : bbs.mirage@gilligan.tsoft.net : : bbs.mirage@tsoft.sf-bay.org : : mirage@thetech.com : : UUCP : apple.com!tsoft!bbs.mirage : `------------------------------------------'
This is generally called phimosis..usually it is due to an inflammation, and ca n be retracted in the physician's offfice rather eaaasily. One should see a GP , or in complicated cases, a urologist.
The subject-line says it: every time I run a fever, I get an amazing rosy rash over my torso and arms. Fortunately, it doesn't itch. The rash always comes on the day after the fever breaks and no matter what the illness was: cold, flu, whatever. It started happening about four years ago after I moved to my current town, although I don't know if that has anything to do with anything. Severity and persistance of the rash seems to vary with the fever: a severe or long-lasting fever brings a long-lasting rash. A mild fever seems to bring rashes that go away faster. Anybody know what might be causing this? It's no more than an embarassment, but I'd be curious to know what's going on. Am I carrying some kind of fever-resistant bug that goes wild when fever knocks out its competition?
Hi, I have normal procomm plus for dos, but I've been considering buying the windows version....it got really great reviews in computer shopper. I have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here using it, but the screen seems to have a problem keeping up with the modem....he has a 14,400 modem on a 486 50 Mhz machine. I can't see it having trouble keeping up. His pcplus for dos works great, but the windows just seems to always screw up....Is this common and is there a fix? Or is something just screwed with his machine? Kent
I wouldn't trust Mitre for another reason: remember "The Cuckoo's Egg"? How great was their security, eh? NSA - well, with the list of known "turncoats", does it make you wonder how many more unknown still are there? (:-) (:-( -- Regards, Uri. uri@watson.ibm.com scifi!angmar!uri
it must have 1 meg memory and support res. 1024x768 (even higher will be better)if it has 9 & 15 pin ports and also supports ega/cga , that's better. I will pay $30 + $1 (shipping) for it. let me knoe if u have one like this.
Hi All, I'm asking for info on behalf of a friend. Is there, what would be, the best way to copy the output of a monitor on to video tape? Any ideas? Please prescribe additional hardware and/or software? (I'm just assuming an Intel/Windows environment). Thanks in advance. --Jerry
:>:It would seem that a society with a "failed" government would be an ideal :>:setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented. Now why do you suppose :>:that never seems to occur?... :> :> :>I fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. Constant :>combat isn't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing. Also, :>they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable :>society anyway. : :And the reason that the Soviet Union couldn't achieve the ideal of pure :communism was the hostility of surrounding capitalist nations...Uh huh. :Somehow, this all sounds familiar. Once again, utopian dreams are :confronted by the real world... Steve, you're the one who suggested that a failed government should be an ideal proving ground, I never felt that way in the first place. Quite the contrary, I think a better proving ground would be someplace that already had a governemnt that would prevent outright acts of agression, yet had a strong spirit of individualism and initiative. Someplace like... Texas :-)
You are quite the loser
I'd have to take Quebec in 6. Hawks will win, but it will take 5. Cal in 7. Boston will beat Quebec in 6. Pitt in 6. The Bruins arent a pushover. The hawks havent had problems with them all year. Yep, I agree. Unless the Hawks can somehow change fate, you're right. Who knows, though. Maybe some intensive forechecking aka normal Hawks style will nullify a seemingly unbeatable team. Maybe the Pens are due for a let-down. Hell, how could they _possibly_ extend their record making play all the way through the playoffs.?
You can find the salient difference in any number of 5th amendment related Supreme Court opinions. The Court limits 5th amendment protections to what they call "testimonial" evidence, as opposed to physical evidence. The whole question would hinge on whether a crypto key would be considered "testimonial" evidence. I suppose arguments could be made either way, though obviously I would hope it would be considered testimonial.
<tale of bike-eating-devil-dog deleted> Come to Louisiana where it is LEGAL to carry concealed weapons on a bike! ----===== DoD #8177 = Technician(Dr. Speed) .NOT. Student =====----
Society, as we have known it, it coming apart at the seams! The basic reason is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is "No Big Deal". Kid's see hundreds on murderous acts on TV, we can abort children on demand, and kill the sick and old at will. So why be surprised when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. They don't care because the message they hear is "Life is Cheap"!
There have been a *lot* of posts lately about "I wanna buy my first bike - is a GSXR/ZX/CBR/FZR a good bike to learn on?" etc. I think I'm going to put together a FAQ on buying a new bike. Ravi used to post one all the time.
Normally I'd be the last to argue with Steve . . . but shouldn't that read "3.8 years for *all* solutions". I mean, if we can imagine the machine that does 1 trial/nanosecond, we can imagine the storage medium that could index and archive it.
I can't help myself. I've tried to be rational, to look the other way, but everytime it happens, its uncontrollable. I hate pre'80s motorcycles. At first I thought it was a phase. I though I would get used to them. It didn't happen. I tried gazing at CB750s and 900 customs, but each time I sadistically pictured them being hurled off of large precipice (I also picture a swarm of german tourists cheering and taking holiday snaps, but I can't figure that part out). What am I to do? Everytime I read a .sig containing some spoked wheel wonder, I shudder and feel pity that the poor soul has suffered enough. I imagine the owner scrapping out his (or her) living in a discarded Maytag refridgerator box, tucked in next to their CX500. I'm hoping for some deliverance. I had in the past loathed the Milwaukee machine, but I can actually begin to understand some of the preaching. There must be hope.
I can't believe that the NY Rangers would force its players to go to Binghamtom to play in the AHL playoffs instead of letting them represent their countries in the World Championships. Anderrson and Zubov are waiting for the NHL to make a decision to this, while Kovalev has given in and gone down to the minors. The Rangers are a disgrace. ps. it has been reported that Neil Smith was very much against the hiring of Mike Keenan. How long will Smith be in NY for?
I am running Windows 3.1, Windows for Work Groups and just loaded Dos 6. What`s happening appears as a graphics problem with File Manager. I've added some menubar buttons but there appears to be a gray boxed region that covers the top 2/3'rds of the button row. These buttons are in a row below the pulldown menus. the pulldown menus look fine, and the disk label region looks fine, but you only see the bottom few pixels of the task buttons. Anyone else experience this? Thanks.
Have you checked out Adobe Illustrator? There are a few Unix versions for it available, depending on your platform. I know of two Unix versions: One for Mach (NeXT) and for Irix (SGI). There may be others, such as for Sun SparcStation, but I don't know for sure. ttyl,
Well, thanks to everyone who has entered so far. There are at least 40 entries, and hopefully more people will enter before the deadline, which is 7:30 pm Today, Sunday, April 18, 1993! In the interest of fairness, since I will win anyway, I feel it is only right to actually tell everyone my picks, so that you all won't cry "rigged" after I declare myself the winner. Here they are: Series Your Pick Games Division Semifinals Pittsburgh-New Jersey Pittsburgh 5 Washington-NY Islanders NY Islanders 6 Boston-Buffalo Boston 5 Quebec-Montreal Quebec 7 Chicago-St. Louis Chicago 4 Detroit-Toronto Detroit 6 Vancouver-Winnipeg Winnipeg 7 Calgary-Los Angeles Calgary 7 Division Finals Patrick Pittsburgh 6 Adams Quebec 7 Norris Chicago 7 Smythe Calgary Conference Finals Wales Pittsburgh 5 Campbell Chicago 4 Stanley Cup winner Pittsburgh 6 -- Keith Keller LET'S GO RANGERS!!!!! LET'S GO QUAKERS!!!!! kkeller@mail.sas.upenn.edu IVY LEAGUE CHAMPS!!!!
Oops! Quite right. I got so busy that I saved Frank's last post back then, intending to respond when I could, and I sort of forgot. I'll try to do it soon if anyone's still interested, and probably even if they're not. Well, yes, maybe I am. I'm trying to have people buy and take on my opinions, thus causing said opinions to spread in time-honoured memetic virus mode until the world is a veritable paradise. So how about it, folks? As they say over here, You Know It Makes Sense. Cheers Simon
From: Gene Wright <gene@theporch.raider.net> I'll say! Imagine that there were a couple groups up there, maybe landing a few weeks apart. The year-mark starts coming on for the first group. Isn't a billion pretty good incentive to take a shot at a potential winner? "Yeah, that's a shame that Team A's life support gave out so close to the deadline. Thanks for the billion." On the other hand, if Apollo cost ~25billion, for a few days or weeks in space, in 1970 dollars, then won't the reward have to be a lot more than only 1 billion to get any takers? -Tommy Mac ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tom McWilliams 517-355-2178 wk \\ As the radius of vision increases, 18084tm@ibm.cl.msu.edu 336-9591 hm \\ the circumference of mystery grows.
} The vast majority get through life without ever having to } own, use or display a firearm. } ... } } Given society } as we now experience it - it seems safer to get rid of } as many guns as possible. Considering that the uses include self defense, hunting, target shooting and collecting, I don't buy the notion that the vast majority of people don't "own, use or display a firearm". But let's say your contention is true. What's the point of "get[ting] rid of as many guns as possible", if they weren't being used anyway?
It was shafting on the part of the Arab land owners for doing it without notifying their tenant farmers and for not being responsible enough to make provisions for them, but rather just leaving them to their fate. The point is that the land was sold legally, often at prices above its actual value. It was legal, and good business for the sellers, though it left the Palestinians who worked the land in a poor situation. I don't know if others share this opinion. It is mine, and I'm sure there are some who agree and some who don't The way I see it, the fallahin were caught in circumstances beyond their control, in that since they didn't own the land, they didn't have a say. Of course, now for the sake of the "greater Arab unity" the Arabs are angry that the land was sold to the Jews (an act that is illegal in Jordan), but when it happened, it was just business. The purpose of buying the land was to provide space and jobs for Jewish immigrants. In any case, no matter what the purpose, the sales were legal, so I really don't see any grounds for contesting them.
Lets just say it is DUI here now! ----===== DoD #8177 = Technician(Dr. Speed) .NOT. Student =====----
THere is a defect in the 13" hi-res monitors, bring it to a dealer and they will replace the flyback for free, I think. I just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing them for free.
-> > But, do you knew how much organization is required to training a large -> > group of poeple twice a year. Just to try to get the same people -> > every year, provide a basic training to new people so they can -> > be integrated into the force, and find a suitable location, it -> > requires a continually standing committee of organizers. -> -> Again, my response is, "so what?" Is Mr. Rutledge arguing that since -> the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support -> such activity, and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from -> doing so, that they have eliminated the basis for the RKBA? On the -> contrary, to anyone who understands the game, they have strengthened it. No, I originally argued that the Second Amendment was "a little bit and an anachronism." These prohibiting laws are examples why the are an anachronism. After all, laws in made by representatives of the people. These representatives of the people have already decided that the Second Amendment does not apply or is too broad in some cases. Since these representatives feel an unconditional interpretation is not wanted, then it is probable that they majority of the people feel the same way. If this is so, it is an example of the people using their power of government. If this is not how the people feel, the people should stand up and state their wishes. -> RKBA is dependent on the existence of a top-flight, well-regulated -> militia. Why this is a false assumption has already been posted a -> number of times. No, I simple stated that the people have a right to "join a well organized militia." And I have also stated that a militia that meets once or twice a year is clearly "well organized." And this state of readiness that I have claimed the people have a "right" to, is the same state of readiness expected of the militia as stated by Hamilton.
Archie told me the following sites holding documentation about DXF: Host nic.funet.fi (128.214.6.100) Last updated 15:11 7 Apr 1993 Location: /pub/csc/graphics/format FILE rwxrwxr-- 95442 Dec 4 1991 dxf.doc Host rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24) Last updated 17:09 1 Jun 1992 Location: /graphics/formats FILE rw-r--r-- 95442 Mar 23 23:31 dxf.doc Host ftp.waseda.ac.jp (133.9.1.32) Last updated 00:47 5 Apr 1993 Location: /pub/data/graphic FILE rw-r--r-- 39753 Nov 18 1991 dxf.doc.Z
Several recent posts have identified the English word 'Easter' with the Babylonian goddess 'Ishtar'. 'Easter' is a pagan word all right, but it has nothing to do with Ishtar. If 'Easter' and 'Ishtar' were related, their history would show it. But in Old English, Easter was 'Eostre', cognate with English 'East' and German 'Ost'. The reconstructed Proto-Germanic form is 'Austron'. Not until after 1400 did 'Easter' have a high front vowel like 'Ishtar'. Clearly, the two words have quite separate origins. There may be neo-pagans who worship Ishtar at Easter, but if so, they are making either a mistake of etymology, or a deliberate play on words. -- Michael Covington (Ph.D., linguistics)
The VW "Thing" Kubelwagen lookalike is still manufactured in Mexico and possibly South America. Good luck importing one-- They probably don't meet US safety and pollution requirements. There are mechanics and junkyards which specialize in VW; they might be helpful for finding a "Thing" unless the WWII re-enacters have grabbed them all. The WWII Kubelwagen was the German equivalent of the Jeep, but was not 4- wheel drive. One is on display at the Patton Museum at Fort Knox, Kentucky, also the rare "Schwimwagen" (sp?) amphibious version, in full-scale dioramas. Highly recommended! --
I am trying to put a 40MB drive from my LC into a case. It is a Conner CP3040A. I can't figure out which jumpers are the SCSI ID jumpers. Is anyone familiar with this drive? At the end of the drive (oposite the 50 pin pibbon connector), there are eleven pins which look like this: o o o o o o 1 o o o o o 2 L5 CR12 C37 where the "o" are pins, and the "L5 CR12 C37" represent some of the silk screen notation near these pins. Elsewhere on the board there are four jumper pads marked E1,E2,E3,E4 on the silk screen. Does anyone know where the SCSI ID A0,A1,A2 pins are, and where the drive activity light LED should be plugged into? -allan
Acorn Software, Inc. has 3 tape drives (currently used on a VMS system) for sale. These are all SCSI tape drives and are in working condition. WangDat 1300 4mm $500.00 WangDat 2600 4mm (compression) $650.00 Exabyte 8200 8mm $650.00 Plus shipping and COD. Certified checks only, please. These units are sold as is and without warrantee. Contact me if you're interested. -- Dick Munroe Internet: munroe@dmc.com Doyle Munroe Consultants, Inc. UUCP: ...uunet!thehulk!munroe 267 Cox St. Office: (508) 568-1618 Hudson, Ma. FAX: (508) 562-1133
Or just dig a deep enough hole in the ground. 50 feet should do it.
nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip *must* have been under development for considerably longer than the 3 months that clinton has been president. this is not something that choosing choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest; it has been in the works for some time.
Liberals and supporters of Clinton say that costs made the action necessary. -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Steve Podleski | phone: 216-433-4000 NASA Lewis Research Center | Cleveland, Ohio 44135 | email: pspod@hooch.lerc.nasa.gov
"Deeply rooted rivalry?" Ahem, Jokerit have been around since 1967 and joined the top flight only in the early '70s. Helsingfors IFK have been around since 1897 but fans only started taking hockey seriously in the 1960s so I think you're exagerating here. That's a rather bold claim, in the light of how successful the Canadian & American Olympic teams have been . . . and they've had to play according to our set of rules and on international ice. The 1992 Olympic teams contained about as much talent as your average expansion team. Canada had Eric Lindros, Sean Burke, Joe Juneau and Chris Kontos. Another four or five have been deep subs in the NHL. As for the Yanks, Keith Tkachuk, Scott Lachance, Bret Hedican, Shawn McEachern, Steve Heintze, Ted Donato, Joe Sacco and Bill Guerin have been 3rd/4th line players in the NHL, while Robb Stauber has done well for the Kings in goal. Nothing more. In fact, I'm sure that an All-Star team assembled from the best Finnish League teams would do no better in the NHL than Hartford or Tampa Bay currently are doing. --- But what happens if _all_ top-class Finnish & Swedish players gradually end up with Helsinki & Stockholm as the North American-based ones gradually retire and no Canadian/American team is allowed to draft new players from Scandinavia? Here is what THE HOCKEY NEWS scouts think of our NHL-based players: (28-30=superstar) (23-27=star) (18-22=NHL regular+) (13-17=NHL regular) ( 8-12=role player) FINLAND: D-Jyrki Lumme.......20 D-Teppo Numminen....20 D-Peter Ahola.......13 C-Jari Kurri........25 C-Christian Ruuttu..16 R-Teemu Selanne.....27 L-Esa Tikkanen......20 (Obviously, Selanne's ratings would be higher today than they were in January) SWEDEN: D-Ulf Samuelsson....21 D-Fredrik Olausson..20 D-Niklas Lidstrom...18 D-Calle Johansson...18 D-Kjell Samuelsson..17 D-Tommy Sjodin......13 D-Tommy Albelin......7 C-Mats Sundin.......26 C-Thomas Steen......18 R-Thomas Sandstrom..22 R-Ulf Dahlen........18 R-Michael Nylander..13 L-Per-Erik Eklund...18 L-Johan Garpenlov...16 L-Mikael Andersson..15 L-Jan Erixon........14 This would be interesting. Clearly, Finland's top five players (Winnipeg's Selanne & Numminen, Vancouver's Lumme, Los Angeles' Jari Kurri and New York's Tikkanen) are right up there with any five-man unit Pittsburgh & co. have. But I have my doubts about the home-based Finnish players - the national team did well in the Canada Cup and World Championships largely due to the efforts of Markus Ketterer (the goalie), 3-4 or the players listed above and luck. There's presumably a lot of decent players in Finland that wouldn't be superstars at the highest level but still valuable role players, however. My guess would be that the Finnish Canada Cup team would be a .500 team in the NHL. --- Sweden is easier to judge because they have more players in North America. Their points total (16 players) is 274 - seven more than Ottawa's 22 top players combined! If we estimate there are six more NHL regulars back home in Sweden, an all-Swedish team would assemble about 350-360 skill points. Deducting some points from Pittsburgh, NY Rangers and other teams that rely on Swedish players, the Swedish team would finish in sixth place - about as high as Boston, Vancouver, Calgary and Montreal on paper! So, the "dynasty" talk isn't completely unfounded here. An all-Finnish/all-Swedish team might have an advantage because the players would be playing at home half of the time, won't have to adapt to a foreign country and a foreign language, and presumably play the wide-open European variant of hockey rather than have to learn the North American checking game. However, if free agency becomes a factor the top Scandinavian players still might end up playing for large-market teams after a couple of years the same way Edmonton's "dynasty" crumbled in the late '80s. Some fringe players likely will be drafted by other NHL teams as having an exclusive talent pool might be a bit unfair after all. I'd settle for a compromise, prohibit all European teams from signing a North American during the first two rounds but allow them to keep their top two players. After this, the amateur draft should be open to anyone.
A judge denied GM's new trial motion, even though GM says it has two new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact, not from the fire. Thoughts? It's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led to the previous ruling appear. Or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed? Shouldn't that be up to a jury? And what about members of the previous jury parading through the talk shows proclaiming their obvious bias against GM? Shouldn't that be enough for a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial? Whatever happened to jurors having to be objective?
I think all Powerbooks use the same 2 Meg upgrade, but the 4 Meg and 6 Meg upgrades are different for the PB100 than for the other PBs.
Well, as long as folks are sharing their esteemed wisdom, Li'l Karnak sez: AL West AL East NL West NL East 1) Chicago 1) Toronto 1) Atlanta 1) St. Louis 2) Texas 2) New York 2) Cincinnati 2) Montreal 3) Minnesota 3) Baltimore 3) Houston 3) New York 4) Oakland 4) Boston 4) Los Angeles 4) Philadelphia 5) Seattle 5) Detroit 5) San Diego 5) Pittsburgh 6) Kansas City 6) Milwaukee 6) San Fran. 6) Chicago 7) California 7) Cleveland 7) Colorado 7) Florida Details to follow later. Pick it apart as you like. Also, if anyone is still taking entries for prediction pools/contests, could you snag mine and add it to the list? Thanks. I'm just glad it's opening day; makes up a little bit for the gloom/doom weather patterns here. Lundy,
Philadelphia at Chicago: Teams tied for 1st after Sunday Dick Redding battled Chet Brewer in the first game of a dramatic four game series. One Friday, one Saturday, and a good-old Sunday doubleheader. "What could be better," declared Ernie Banks. Perhaps the fact that the Cubs are challenging? "It's pitching, it's always been pitching that we've lacked," announced Ryne Sandberg. "If we can get by Brewer, then beat Carlton, Alexander, or Bunning - preferrably 2 of the last three - we'll know we might be able to win. "Lord, I hope we pull it off." The Phils scored once in the top of the first; Richie Ashburn singled, Pete Rose followed with a hit, sending Ashburn around second. Kiki Cuyler cut the ball off in left center, and threw a bullet in to Ernie Banks, who threw to Ron Santo to get Ashburn at third. Rose went to second on the play. Christobel Torrienti lifted a long fly to center, moving Pete Rose to third. Schmidt was walked - the Cubs were absolutely refusing to let him beat them. Both Torrienti and Schmidt will likely draw 130-150 walks this year. Chuck Klein is starting to hit very well, and he lashed a double into a gap in right-center. "Cool Papa" Bell's speed allowed him to cut the ball off and prevent Schmidt from scoring. Nellie Fox was walked, and Bob Boone grounded out to second, ending the threat. "Teams are starting to realize that you don't have to pitch to Schmidt or Torrienti, and that is lowering their run total. It puts a lot of pressure on Klein and Dick Allen (who platoons with Chuck Klein and occasionally spells Rose at first), and it's a credit to the Phillies that they've been able to sustain their pace. The picthers have slumped at times." So came the analysis from Frank Chance. The Cubs got that run back when Bell bunted for a hit, Thomas' grounder moved him to second, and - after Sandberg made out - Billy Williams singled home a run. In the sixth, Ron Santo launched a two-run homer to make it 3-1. Dick Redding got in trouble in the eighth, as Schmidt singled and Klein singled him to third. Ed Reulbach entered to face Fox, but Dick Allen popped out of the dugout to hit. Allen doubled to right, but luckily for the Cubs, Williams had moved to left and Andre Dawson had been inserted for defense. He fired a bullet to home plate to keep Klein at third. Lance Parrish, hitting for Boone, was walked, and Bruce Sutter entered. Larry Bowa grounded into a 1-2-3 double play, but Ed Delahanty walked as a pinch-hitter. Desiring a strikeout, since Ashburn was likely to attempt a bunt hit with the quick Trillo pinch-running at third, Chance brought in Lee Smith, who induced a pop-up to the catcher from the speedy centerfielder, ending the inning. The Cubs took the win, 3-2, moving a game behind the Phillies. Steve Carlton was called upon to battle 3-Finger Brown Saturday. To get another righthander in the lineup, Ron Santo moved to first and Bill Madlock played third. Unfortunately, Brown allowed six doubles, and the Cub bullpen was worn down even more, as the Cubs tried to maintain a lead against Lefty. Madlock, batting sixth, had knocked two doubles of his own, driving home four runs. Gabby Hartnett hit two home runs, and Cuyler added another, and the score was 8-6, Cubs after six innings. The Phillie bullpen had more troubles in the bottom of the eighth, as the Cubs grabbed 3 more runs to ice an 11-7 triumph. Sunday's twin bill saw Cool Papa Bell gather seven straight hits at one point, including a rare outside-the-park home run in the second game, off Robin Roberts. Grover Alexander of the Phils took the first contest, 4-2, but the Cubs captured the second one 5-4, with Waddell gaining the win. Bruce Sutter tossed two innings for the save, though he allowed one run in the eighth. The Cardinals stood half a game behind these co-leaders, and would conclude their series with the Expos on Monday. ------------------------------------------------------------------- Montreal at St. Louis(August 3-6): 3-way tie for 1st Dennis Martinez is on a roll, and he continued it versus John Tudor Friday. The Expos have a wide variety of hitters, and - while they aren't among the all-time greats, they are getting the job done. After winning their first first two games, they suddenly found themselves only 2 1/2 games out of first in this wacky season. Martinez triumphed 5-3 on Friday, and WIlliams outdueled Dizzy Dean 3-2 Saturday. However, the Cardinals refused to give up, winning 6-2 on Sunday. The Cards captured Monday's game, too, as Steve Carlton outdueled Steve Rogers 3-2. "We're really good against ground ball pitchers because of our team speed," remarked Lou Brock. "I don't see why we can't win this division." The Phillies and Cubs may have some reasons for them. Two-thirds of the way through the season, there is a 3-way tie for first. ------------------------------------------------------------------- New York at Pittsburgh(August 3-6): 3 straight 3-2 wins for Bucs, now 2 back - but in 4th! "When your team is in a slump like we are, the worst thing is to play in a pitcher's park like this," spoke Gil Hodges before the series. Keith Hernandez added that "their defense takes away quite a few runs per year, and it must be giving them an extra 6-7 wins." The Pirates have made only 26 errors all season, 6 ahead of the second place Dodgers. Error totals tend to be around 50 for the best defensive All-Time teams. Rube Foster defeated Sid Fernandez 5-2 Friday, and Candelaria outshone Seaver 3-2 Saturday, in a game featuring some outstanding defense. When Nolan Ryan and two relivers 6-hit the Mets in another 3-2 win Sunday, the Pirates could once again look forward to a victory getting them back to the .500 mark. They had been unable to several times in the past month. Bert Blyleven met Dwight Gooden in the afternoon game. Both pitchers possessed fantastic stuff, and the only runs scored through eight innings were on home runs - a solo shot by Rusty Staub of the Mets and a two-run blast by Ralph Kiner for the Pirates. The Mets' Darryl Strawberry singled home a run in the top of the ninth off Jesse Orosco, working his second inning, after Mookie Wilson pinch-ran for Gary Carter at second. With one out and a runner on first, Lee Mazilli was sent in to pinch-hit. The Pirates countered with Kent Tekulve, placing him in the fifth spot in the order and putting Barry Bonds in left field as the ninth place hitter. Tekulve induced a groundout forcing Strawberry at second. He slid hard into Honus Wagner, preventing the Pirates from turning their fifth double play of the afternoon. Tekulve allowed a hit, but Clemente threw Mazilli out at third from near the right field line, ending the inning. Tug McGraw relieved Randy Myers, who entered to pitch the eighth, and got one out before Bonds launched a rocket to deep center, running through the stop sign at third to score an inside-the-park homer to win. The Pirates had scored an improbable 3 straight 3-2 wins, and had moved to within 2 games of first place, with seven weeks to go. ------------------------------------------------------------------ San Francisco at Boswaukta(August 3-5): Another Sunday doubleheader appeared on the schedule, as the Giants managed to close the gap on the other teams thanks to some starting pitching that just wouldn't tire. In fact, reported manager John McGraw, "once this rough part of the schedule is over, maybe as early as this coming week, we may shift to a 4-man rotation again for a little while." Juan Marichal continued his hot pitching Friday, beating Lew Burdette and the Braves 4-1. Willie Mays had all four r.b.i.s on 3 hits. Rick Reuschel faced Joe Niekro Saturday in a slugfest. The Braves' park had been a homer haven, but this took the cake, as the Giants won a seesaw affair 16-13. Willie Mays had three homers, Willie McCovey, Eddie Matthews, and Don Baylor had two, and Hank Aaron, Ernie Lombardi, Biz Mackey, and Mel Ott had one each. The Braves had collected 149 home runs going into Sunday's doubleheader, putting them on a pace for 223, which would be 4 short of the National League record. They were still a tad behind the '61 Yankees' pace. They had allowed over 120, though. Vida Blue actually got the win after retiring 2 batters in the fifth. He allowed only a run in the sixth, but faltered in the seventh. Joe McGinnity earned the save. In the doubleheader, the Braves' Hoyt Wilhelm failed to hold a lead in the first game, but Hank Aaron homered off Bill Foster in the eighth as the Braves won, 4-3. The Giants took the second game, however, by a 6-2 score. The homer by Aaron was a magical #150 by the Braves; however, they fell to three game below .500, making a comeback extremely unlikely. ------------------------------------------------------------------- San Diego at Cincinnati(Aug. 3-5): Randy Jones faced Ewell Blackwell in the first of this 3-game series, and the Padres felt rather good. With Don Mattingly straining his back in the last Cleveland game, the trade looked even better. McGriff's batting average was even rising. Of course, the bench was very poor, and Joe Gordon was only adequate in the outfield, but these were minor problems, since the pitching was holding up. Jones pitched a good game Friday, and won 6-3. McGriff launched two home runs. Mel Harder earned a win with the help of Mark Davis and Ray Narleski Saturday; 5-4 was the final score. Tom Candiotti battled Satchel Paige to a 3-3 tie through eight innings before departing. The game was scoreless for 4 more innings until the thirteenth. Paige had departed after 10, and John Franco hurled a scoreless inning. Tom Browning was working his second scoreless inning, when Dave Winfield doubled with one out and Joe Gordon was pitched around. Thurm Munson doubled both runners home, and the Padres gamed a 5-3 win. The three-game sweep had pulled the Giants into a tie with the Reds. Though the Reds denied it, the highly emotional series with the Dodgers may have taken too much out of them. ------------------------------------------------------------------- Brookangeles at Houston(August 3-5): Another series capped off by a weekend doubleheader took place in the wide open plains of the Astrodome. The Astros sent Joe Niekro to the hill in the first game, opposite Don Drysdale. "Normally," Drysdale remarked, "I would be challenging hitter by being ready to throw at them. I can't afford to with this team, though; we have to get our own runners going; we can't Davis will get decked once." The fact that Glenn Davis leads the team in homers with six (!) is primarily why he would be decked, but it should be understood that his current pace would give him nine for the season. The hitting on this team is a little better, but the power is all doubles and triples. Still, Carl Furillo is the main reason no Astro home runs were hit over the weekend, as he threw two runners out trying for inside-the-park homers. For those unaware of the nastness of the Astros' park, they have a 23-foot high gray wall all around the outfield; balls must be hit into the seats to be home runs. The foul poles are 355 feet from home plate, but the alleys are 400 feet away, with center field at 420 feet. "It's as if some three-year-old threw a tantrum and told his playmates: 'If I can't hit home runs, nobody will hit home runs'," remarked Roy Campanella. The Dodgers stole five bases Friday, but the Astros decided to revitalize the Baltimore chopping that had failed 6 weeks before; for tonight, anyway, Davis, Jim Wynn, and Jose Cruz did not have to mess with their swings, according to the manager. After Poles and Willie Wells reached base via the Baltimore chop, Drysdale decked Jose Cruz with a pitch. He responded with a two-run double, but Wynn - playing first for Davis - popped up, and the Astros didn't score any more in that inning. They did score 3 in the fourth to erase a 3-2 deficit, and the Astros wound up winning 6-4. They threatened to do even better the next game, as Tommy John would be their opponent. Walt Alston met privately with the starters at 6 A.M. before the game. "I think I know how we can beat the Baltimore Chop," he explained. "How can we do that," Pee Wee Reese wondered. "They're going to be beating the ball down, so we've got to be ready to throw on the run. Steve will start at first to dig balls out of the dirt, but I want all of you to practice your barehanded picks and throws. We'll go with a shallow infield almost the whole time." The plan almost worked. Mike Scott allowed only two runs through eight innings, but the Astros got three; two of them scored when Bill Doran pushed a bunt into the outfield in the fourth with runners on second and third. 3-2 Astros was the final, with Dave Smith earning another save. The Dodgers scored a victory in the first game of the twin bill Sunday, as Nolan Ryan walked five, three of whom scored in a 4-1 Dodger win. Fernando Valenzuela lost the second game 4-2 to Don Sutton, however, as the Dodgers' thirteen stolen bases in the series proved to not be enough. "We're mostly a power team," remarked Ron Cey. "Jackie and, when he plays, Maury Wills are our only real speed demons, though a couple other plays can do it now and then. We're sunk in a place like the Astrodome. I guess that's why they're so successful there." Indeed, it seems that basestealing teams give them the most trouble in the dome. The 'Stros swiped 12 bases in 16 attempts, giving them 230 on the season. Standings after these weekend series: A.L.East Team W L GB New York 68 42 -- Cleveland 65 46 3.5 Detroit 64 46 4 Boston 64 47 4.5 Baltimore 59 52 9.5 Toronto 43 69 25.5 Washington 39 73 28 A.L.West Oaksaselphia 63 48 -- Minnesota 61 48 1 Chicago 59 53 4.5 Kansas City 57 54 6.5 California 57 56 8 Milwaukee 45 66 17 Seattle 32 78 31.5 N.L.East Chicago 57 53 -- Philadelphia 58 54 -- St. Louis 58 54 -- Pittsburgh 56 56 2 Montreal 53 56 3.5 New York 48 64 10 N.L.West Brookangeles 66 46 -- Cincinnati 66 47 0.5 San Francisco 65 46 0.5 Boswaukta 54 56 11 Houston 50 61 17.5 San Diego 36 75 29.5
I'm curious about this statement, is it a known understanding amongst Christian believers that people who don't understand the Christian doctrines are enjoying this state? I come from a background with a heavy Christian teaching (Lutheran church), and consider myself knowledgeable with the basic understandings of Christianity. At the same time I'm *not* proud of things I don't understand or know of at this point of time. Ignorance is not bliss! Cheers, Kent
Do they have a history of working in massage parlors, and telling co-workers there that they are prostitutes? Do they frequent truck stop parking lots at 4:00 AM, without ID on any sort?
As usual, David Sternlight is demonstrating his inability to read. The proposal clearly states: => The initiative will involve the creation of new products to => accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure => telecommunications networks and wireless communications links. It speaks about telecommunications in general. Read it again, David. Maybe you'll understand it the next time... Nah, probably not. That's exactly what the government wants all sheep-minded people to think. Let's look at the current situation. It allows to almost anybody to eavesdrop almost everybody, unless secure (and I mean secure) encryption is used. What will happen when ("if"? Ha! optimists...) the new proposal gets accepted? Almost nobody EXCEPT SOME will be able to eavesdrop everybody else, but the ability of these "some" to eavesdrop will be guaranteed! The proposal emphasizes on the former ("almost nobody") - which is clearly an improvement - and "forgets" to mention the drawbacks of the latter ("guaranteed"). Yes, my statement assumes that the next step will be to make the strong crypto unlawful. You think that it will not happen? Good luck. It's not just "continued ability". It's -guaranteed- ability. Yeah, that's exactly what your government wants you to think. Let's take small steps, one at a time. Concentrate on the current one, don't think about the future. Trust us. It's not asked because the proposal clearly says that this is the intention. They, unlike you, read what they write. Yes, it will. It will stop the jerk who is eavesdropping now. It will allow only to the government to eavesdrop. (If the scheme is secure, of course, which is yet to be proven.) But how do you know that the jerk you are fearing now will not get a government job tomorrow? The new proposal -guarantees- him the ability to eavesdrop then. Hell, that will even motivate him to get that job - if he indeed is that mentally pervert... Great. The Greatest Cryptographer of All Times David Sternlight (tm) has succeeded to evaluate the new system in the absense of any details whatsoever and has concluded that it is "highly secure". I guess, that comes from the background of working some 50 years for the two major crypto evaluating companies, right? Gee, now the government can save all that money and trouble to ask a secret council of crypto experts to secretly analyse the new secret method - for David Sternlight has already done all the job for them... "Trust us, we're from the Government and we're here to help you." "Those who are prepared to trade their liberties for the promises of future safety, do not deserve either." This (or something like that; I don't have the exact quote, but the meaning is the same) has been said by one of your great men. Maybe you should study their works more carefully, if you have the brains to understand them, of course. The main question is to guarantee to availability of -really- secure cryptography to the masses. Gee, if the proposal was saying "we guarantee that every American will still have the full right to use any kind of encryption s/he would like and regard this proposal as just a default, voluntary implementation", there would have been much less opposition... For some reason, they didn't even try to promise you that. I wonder why... Was Orwell off only by 10 years? No, in return you get crypto that is guaranteed to be crippled. While the above is just rumors, and while even if it is true, it is not done -easily-, the new scheme can is guaranteed to be easily breakable by anybody who has the two keys. It might be also breakable by somebody who does not have them but knows the right trick. Or who has only one of them. NSA also told you that DES is secure, why don't you simply trust them, huh? It is -guaranteed- to be -easily- breakable - just get the keys. It might be even easier, but until there is some evidence, this is just a wild speculation. The trapdoors -are- there. In government's hands. The keys. Legitimate? And who decides what communications are legitimate? Oh, I guess, it's the government, right? The guys who already have the keys? It's kinda if I have the keys from your car and I am asked to decide who has the right to use it "legitimately"... Impossible, since you are demonstrating the same level of incompetence and ignorance as in the provious threads. Unfortunately, I have yet to see you posting a technically competent message. Regards, Vesselin
} A note on the lighter side, I've noticed most gun-banners (some of my } friends included) are the one who make comments that indicate they are } more likely to resort to violent. So are they really banning guns so they } wouldn't end up shooting someone else? Could be. It is also likely that since they feel they are more likely to resort to violence, they have a hard time believing that anyone else would react otherwise.
OK all you experts! Need answer quick.386 machine ,1.44 floppy ; unable to write to a formated 720 disk.Machine claims that disk is write protected,but it is not. Note: It 'll read 720's with no problem.
Yes, Colin... I have to agree with you here... I've put the puck in my own net the same way Smith did... (only once, mind you :-) and it was definitely my fault. It is NOT a common play to play the puck the way that Smith did. Luckily, for me... when I did it... it was only a scrimmage :-)
I was at my parents' Seder and noticed the labelling on one of the packages was English, Hebrew and French. In the phrase "kosher for passover" the French word used was "Pa^ques." We've deliberately mistranslated this at the Kulikauskas home and keep referring to foods being kosher for Easter. :-) Back to the original questions in this thread concerning Christians of Jewish descent and the Law: I always wonder when I see posts on this subject whether the writers are Christians of Jewish descent relating the life-decisions God has led them to or people who take only an academic interest in the topic. (Having known Seanna since she was nine years old, I do know in this case.) I admit that the answer to this question affects the amount of weight I give to the writer's statement.
I am scanning in a color image and it looks fine on the screen. When I converted it into PCX,BMP,GIF files so as to get it into MS Windows the colors got much lighter. For example the yellows became white. Any ideas?
Warren Brown, the Washington Post's auto writer was the first journalist to get his hands on the New Yorker. If you'd like his impressions of it his review appeared in Friday's paper, in the "Weekend" section. He is not your traditional auto writer... Enjoy.
====================================================================== NYC ACM/SIGGRAPH: UNDERSTANDING IMAGES ====================================================================== SUBJECT: Pace University/SIGGRAPH Conference on UNDERSTANDING IMAGES =========================================================== The purpose of this conference is to bring together a breadth of disciplines, including the physical, biological and computational sciences, technology, art, psychology, philosophy, and education, in order to define and discuss the issues essential to image understanding within the computer graphics context. FEATURED TOPICS INCLUDE: Psychology/Perception Image Analysis Design Text Sound Philosophy DATE: Friday & Saturday, 21-22 May 1993 TIME: 9:00 am - 6:00 pm PLACE: The Pace Downtown Theater One Pace Plaza (on Spruce Street between Park Row & Gold Street) NY, NY 10038 FEES: PRE-REGISTRATION (Prior to 1 May 1993): Members $55.00 Non-Members $75.00 Students $40.00 (Proof of F/T Status Required) REGISTRATION (After 1 May 1993 or On-Site): All Attendees $95.00 (Registration Fee Includes Brakfast, Breaks & Lunch) SEND REGISTRATION INFORMATION & FEES TO: Dr. Francis T. Marchese Computer Science Department NYC/ACM SIGGRAPH Conference Pace University 1 Pace Plaza (Room T-1704) New York NY 10036 voice: (212) 346-1803 fax: (212) 346-1933 email: MARCHESF@PACEVM.bitnet ====================================================================== REGISTRATION INFORMATION: Name _________________________________________________________________ Title ________________________________________________________________ Company ______________________________________________________________ Street Address _______________________________________________________ City ________________________________State____________Zip_____________ Day Phone (___) ___-____ Evening Phone (___) ___-____ FAX Phone (___) ___-____ Email_____________________________________ ====================================================================== DETAILED DESCRIPTION: ===================== Artists, designers, scientists, engineers and educators share the problem of moving information from one mind to another. Traditionally, they have used pictures, words, demonstrations, music and dance to communicate imagery. However, expressing complex notions such as God and infinity or a seemingly well defined concept such as a flower can present challenges which far exceed their technical skills. The explosive use of computers as visualization and expression tools has compounded this problem. In hypermedia, multimedia and virtual reality systems vast amounts of information confront the observer or participant. Wading through a multitude of simultaneous images and sounds in possibly unfamiliar representions, a confounded user asks: "What does it all mean?" Since image construction, transmission, reception, decipherment and ultimate understanding are complex tasks, strongly influenced by physiology, education and culture; and, since electronic media radically amplify each processing step, then we, as electronic communicators, must determine the fundamental paradigms for composing imagery for understanding. Therefore, the purpose of this conference is to bring together a breadth of disciplines, including, but not limited to, the physical, biological and computational sciences, technology, art, psychology, philosophy, and education, in order to define and discuss the issues essential to image understanding within the computer graphics context. FEATURED SPEAKERS INCLUDE: Psychology/Perception: Marc De May, University of Ghent Beverly J. Jones, University of Oregon Barbara Tversky, Standfor University Michael J. Shiffer, MIT Tom Hubbard, Ohio State University Image Analysis: A. Ravishankar Rao, IBM Watson Research Center Nalini Bhusan, Smith College Xiaopin Hu, University of Illinois Narenda Ahuja, University of Illinois Les M. Sztander, University of Toledo Design: Mark Bajuk, University of Illinois Alyce Kaprow, MIT Text: Xia Lin, Pace University John Loustau, Hunter College Jong-Ding Wang, Hunter College Judson Rosebush, Judson Rosebush Co. Sound: Matthew Witten, University of Texas Robert Wyatt, Center for High Performance Computing Robert S. Williams, Pace University Rory Stuart, NYNEX Philosophy Michael Heim, Education Foundation of DPMA
Yes, I want to concentrate on other development issues - I've created graphics libraries before, it's too time consuming... life's too short! Thanks for the clarification... Before posting my original request I had looked into the Mac's 3D capabilities and dismissed them as low grade.
Sure. Contact the World Space Foundation. They're listed in the sci.space Frequently Asked Questions file, which I'll excerpt. WORLD SPACE FOUNDATION - has been designing and building a solar-sail spacecraft for longer than any similar group; many JPL employees lend their talents to this project. WSF also provides partial funding for the Palomar Sky Survey, an extremely successful search for near-Earth asteroids. Publishes *Foundation News* and *Foundation Astronautics Notebook*, each a quarterly 4-8 page newsletter. Contributing Associate, minimum of $15/year (but more money always welcome to support projects). World Space Foundation Post Office Box Y South Pasadena, California 91301 WSF put together a little paperback anthology of fiction and nonfiction about solar sails: *Project Solar Sail*. I think Robert Staehle, David Brin, or Arthur Clarke may be listed as editor. Also there is a nontechnical book on solar sailing by Louis Friedman, a technical one by a guy whose name escapes me (help me out, Josh), and I would expect that Greg Matloff and Eugene Mallove have something to say about the subject in *The Starflight Handbook*, as well as quite a few references. Check the following articles in *Journal of the British Interplanetary Society*: V36 p. 201-209 (1983) V36 p. 483-489 (1983) V37 p. 135-141 (1984) V37 p. 491-494 (1984) V38 p. 113-119 (1984) V38 p. 133-136 (1984) (Can you guess that Matloff visited Fermilab and gave me a bunch of reprints? I just found the file.) And K. Eric Drexler's paper "High Performance Solar Sails and Related Reflecting Devices," AIAA paper 79-1418, probably in a book called *Space Manufacturing*, maybe the proceedings of the Second (?) Conference on Space Manufacturing. The 1979 one, at any rate.
I'm not sure why you don't consider it an option. No one suggests that such analysis should be left to "regulators." In fact, the "re-inventing government" movement provides just such a cost/benefit approach to the analysis of public spending. Libertarians would do well to learn more about it. Sorry, but it strikes me that it is the only "feasible" approach. What is not feasible is a wholesale attack on all government regulation and licensing that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent tasks. Actually, the only areas of public spending above that strike me as generating substantial support among libertarians are police and defense. (It is an interesting aside that as committed as libertarians claim to be to a principle of non-coercion, the only areas of public spending that they frequently support involve hiring people with guns....hmmm...) Perhaps you have. May I suggest that you consider that revolutionaries frequently generate support by acting as protectors of "geezers," mothers and children. Governments that ignore such people on the grounds that "we don't have much to fear" from them do so at their own peril. jsh
Or little children at the market. (Or is that the Irish? Hard to keep all you not-really-English types straight.) --
That's the entire point! Yes! Natural morality is a morality that developed naturally. Huh?
-> -> Some recent postings remind me that I had read about risks -> associated with the barbecuing of foods, namely that carcinogens -> are generated. Is this a valid concern? If so, is it a function -> of the smoke or the elevated temperatures? Is it a function of -> the cooking elements, wood or charcoal vs. lava rocks? I wish -> to know more. Thanks. I've read mixed opinions on this. Singed meat can contain carcinogens, but unless you eat barbecued meat every meal, you're probably not at much risk. I think I will live life on the edge and grill my food. I've also read that using petroleum based charcoal starter can put some unwanted toxins in your food, or at least unwanted odor. I've been using egg carton cups dipped in paraffin for fire starters, and it actually lights faster and easier than lighter fluid. Several people have told me that they have excellent results with a chimney, basically a steel cylinder with wholes punched in the side. I've been meaning to get one of these, but one hasn't presented itself while I've been out shopping. You can make one from a coffee can, but I buy my coffee as whole beans in a bag, so I haven't had a big enough can laying around.
As the subject suggests the Flames were not impressive this afternoon, dropping a 6-3 decision to the LA Kings. Most of the Flames neglected to show up, especially in their own zone, as the Kings hit at least five posts! The Flames best line was probably Skrudland-Paslawski-Berube (which tells how bad the Flames were). Gary Suter scored a great goal (in fact all three Flame goals were scored by D-men - Yawney and Dahlquist getting the others), but also made some bonehead plays. For the Kings, Pat Conacher was especially impressive. The games was VERY chippy, as Dan Mirouelli lost control early and never recovered it; there were high-sticks, cross-checks, punches, hits from behind. Fleury got a game misconduct for rubbing out Warren Rychel from behind. Flames dominated the game physically, but failed to take advantage due to horrendous defensive lapses (I don't think Vernon can be blamed for any of the goals). Calgary went with 7 D-men, as Roger Johansson played LW; he looked lost IMHO - I hope King inserts Chris Lindbergh, Paul Kruse, or Sergei Makarov for Wednesday's game. Gretzky left the game in the 2nd period with a charley-horse; no idea how serious - he didn't return. I still think the Flames should win this series, but they better buckle down.
Oh, and us with the big degrees don't got imagination, huh? The alleged dichotomy between imagination and knowledge is one of the most pernicious fallacys of the New Age. Michael, thanks for the generous offer, but we have quite enough dreams of our own, thank you. You, on the other hand, are letting your own dreams go to waste by failing to get the maths/thermodynamics/chemistry/(your choices here) which would give your imagination wings. Just to show this isn't a flame, I leave you with a quote from _Invasion of the Body Snatchers_: "Become one of us; it's not so bad, you know"
I was assuming that there won't be a moon base unless it makes a profit, actually. If it does, well, that gives a larger GNP which leads to being able to spend more money on your military, including gosh-wow space stuff. (assuming it's profitable, rather than paying for itself.) You might be able to _run_ one for that; put it there, hardly. Why do you think at least a couple centuries before there will be significant commerical activity on the Moon?
I don't think they provide homeopaths, heck the heir apparent was trying to promote Osteopaths to the ranks of eligibility a couple of years back... It pleased my family no end, since I'm at an Osteopathic school, sort of validated it for them...then I told them that the name was the same but the practice was different....oh. If you're seeking validation for your philosophy on the strength of the national health service adopting it, I suggest that you are not very sure of the validity of your philosophy. I believe in 1946, the NHS was still having its nurses taught the fine art of "cupping", which is the vacuum extraction of intradermal fluids by means of heating a cup, placing it on the afflicted site and allowing it to cool. I wouldn't take my sick daughter to a homeopath.
Sorry if this has been beaten to death on this forum. I am looking seriously at buying a 486 DX / 33 from Gateway. I will probably buy it without a monitor, as I've heard negative stuff about Gateway monitors. I've also heard its tough to get through to technical support. I'm seeking opinions on whether or not its wise to go ahead based on criteria such as price, warranty service, general ruggedness of the system, reliability of the machine and of Gateway too, and so on. Please advise!! Thanks in advance! Vasudev Murthy
Not necessarily, especially if the rapist is known as such. For instance, if you intentionally stick your finger into a loaded mousetrap and get snapped, whose fault is it?
# #They believe that they have a right to FORCE people to hire them, # #rent to them, and do business with them, regardless of the feelings # #or beliefs of the other person. # # Cramer, you are off your target again. The law *forces* no one to obey # it. At every point any individual may stand up and say *this law # sucks*. Even you could say this. Gay men and women have not *forced* You mean they passed a law that does nothing at all? No enforcement mechanisms? As usual, you are wrong. # any off this. Changes in the law have been brought about by # democratic* processes, those same processes are the ones that protect # you from certain abuses. Yeah, right. I guess the next time a homosexual complains about sodomy laws, I can just echo your stupidity about "democratic processes" and he won't have any basis for complaint. # #I must admit that I never understood why it is referred to as an # #abomination, until I started to read soc.motss, and started finding # #evidence that homosexuality is a response to child molestation -- # #which is disproportionately done by homosexuals. (Just to make # #Brian Kane happy -- 30% of molestation is done by homosexuals and # #bisexuals, but it is possible that this is because homosexual/bisexual # #molesters have far more victims than heterosexual molesters.) # # No it isn't. No it isn't. No it isn't and it depends on the subset # (note *subset*) of abuse you look at. Repeating it three times makes it more correct? # #Clayton E. Cramer {uunet,pyramid}!optilink!cramer My opinions, all mine! # #Relations between people to be by mutual consent, or not at all. # # * Xavier Gallagher*************************** Play ***************************
McDonnell Douglas rolls out DC-X ... SSTO research remains cloudy. The SDI Organization -- which paid $60 million for the DC-X -- can't itself afford to fund full development of a follow-on vehicle. To get the necessary hundreds of millions required for This is a little peculiar way of putting it, SDIO's budget this year was, what, $3-4 billion? They _could_ fund all of the DC development out of one years budget - of course they do have other irons in the fire ;-) and launcher development is not their primary purpose, but the DC development could as easily be paid for by diverting that money as by diverting the comparable STS ops budget... - oh, and before the flames start. I applaud the SDIO for funding DC-X devlopment and I hope it works, and, no, launcher development is not NASAs primary goal either, IMHO they are supposed to provide the enabling technology research for others to do launcher development, and secondarily operate such launchers as they require - but that's just me.
Mr. Salah, why are you such a homicidal racist? Do you feel this same hatred towards Christans, or is it only Jews? Are you from a family of racists? Did you learn this racism in your home? Or are you a self-made bigot? How does one become such a racist? I wonder what you think your racism will accomplish. Are you under the impression that your racism will help bring peace in the mid- east? I would like to know your thoughts on this.
Yea, thanks to lots of good information in this newsgroup, I was prepared for lots of details (even shipping time ... got my C610 8/230/CD in 5 weeks). I guess my biggest disappointment is the lack of detail in the written specs and documentation. The case load spec is an example -- the setup section says Apple 14" and 16" monitors can go on top, but 21" and other big ones can't. Why couldn't they publish a maximum load? Now if I can figure out if there's any hope using the "partition" button on the hard disk setup utility (do I dare just try it and see what happens?), then maybe I can divide up the wealth among the family members a bit more securly. The "getting more information" section of the manual suggested trying other avenues before calling Apple, but didn't mention the net.
In <1qvos8$r78@cl.msu.>, vergolin@euler.lbs.msu.edu (David Vergolini) writes... There's quite a few Wings fans lurking about here, they just tend to be low key and thoughtful rather than woofers. I suppose every family must have a Roger Clinton, though. But remember (to paraphrase one of my favorite Star Trek lines), "if we adopt the ways of the Leaf fans, we are as bad as the Leaf fans". Ron
There's a lot of evidence, it just hasn't been adequately gathered and published in a way that will convince the die-hard melancholic skeptics who quiver everytime the word 'anecdote' or 'empirical' is used. For example, Dr. Ivker, who wrote the book "Sinus Survival", always gives, before any other treatment, a systemic anti-fungal (such as Nizoral) to his new patients IF they've been on braod-spectrum anti-biotics 4 or more times in the last two years. He's kept a record of the results, and for over 2000 patients found that over 90% of his patients get significant relief of allergic/sinus symptoms. Of course, this is only the beginning for his program. In my case, as I reported a few weeks ago, I was developing the classic symptoms outlined in 'The Yeast Connection' (I agree it is a poorly written book): e.g., extreme sensitivity to plastics, vapors, etc. which I never had before (started in November). Within one week of full dosage of Sporanox, the sensitivity to chemicals has fully disappeared - I can now sit on my couch at home without dying after two minutes. I'm also *greatly* improved in other areas as well. Of course, I have allergy symptoms, etc. I am especially allergic to molds, yeasts, etc. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that if one has excessive colonization of yeast in the body, and you have a natural allergy to yeasts, that a threshold would be reached where you would have perceptible symptoms. Also, yeast do produce toxins of various sorts, and again, you don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that such toxins can cause problems in some people. In my case it was sinus since that's the center of my allergic response. Of course, the $60,000 question is whether a person who is immune compromised (as tests showed I was from over 5 years of antibiotics, nutritionally-deficiencies because of the stress of infections and allergies, etc.), can develop excessive yeast colonization somewhere in the body. It is a tough question to answer since testing for excessive yeast colonization is not easy. One almost has to take an empirical approach to diagnosis. Fortunately, Sporanox is relatively safe unlike past anti-fungals (still have to be careful, however) so there's no reason any longer to withhold Sporanox treatment for empirical reasons. BTW, some would say to try Nystatin. Unfortunately, most yeast grows hyphae too deep into tissue for Nystatin to have any permanent affect. You'll find a lot of people who are on Nystatin all the time. In summary, I appreciate all of the attempts by those who desire to keep medicine on the right road. But methinks that some who hold too firmly to the party line are academics who haven't been in the trenches long enough actually treating patients. If anybody, doctors included, said to me to my face that there is no evidence of the 'yeast connection', I cannot guarantee their safety. For their incompetence, ripping off their lips is justified as far as I am concerned. Jon Noring -- Charter Member --->>> INFJ Club.
Mr. Meritt, please state explicitly the inductive argument which leads you to conclude Mr. Tice thinks it "OK" to take biblical quotes out of context in some other t.r.m. articles. Also, please explain why you rely on inductive reasoning (with its implicit uncertainty) in determining Mr. Tice's opinions when the man is himself clearly available for questioning. Finally, please indicate whether you agree (yes or no) with the following statement:
I agree. Adding layers of managers and bureaucrats simply eat up money that could be spent on those who actually are doing the work such as doctors and nurse, and supplies. The most efficient system is probably one that has limited management and a fixed budget such as England's or even Canada's. I'm afraid we are on the wrong track. The problem may be that the insurance lobby is too powerful. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Walter- I tried several times in the past to communicate with you and Susan, but you ignored me, and I don't honestly believe my letters were mean. Rather I thought they were thoughtful and compassionate, but I see now what I should have seen then. Call me naive. I give up on this group. As my Lord advised, that if you are unwelcome in a city then brush the dust of your feet and go on. If anyone cares about the topic they write to me direct, if not, well, may God bless you as well.
[ etc. ] Hey, he's the only manager so far to lead the Seattle Mariners to a winning season, out of, what, fifteen? Give him some credit for that. -- dave -- /''' The Machman machman@u.washington.edu david c carroll c-OO \ "Big Science. Hallelujah"
It is more appropriate to address netters with their names as they appear in their signatures (I failed to do so since you did not bother to sign your posting). Not only because it is the polite thing to do, but also to avoid addressing ladies with "Mr.", as you have done. Secondly, the island of which the name is more correctly spelled as Cyprus has never been Greek, but rather, it has been home to a bi-communal society formed of Greeks and Turks. It seems that you know as little about the history and the demography of the island, as you know about the essence of Turkey's military intervention to it under international agreements. Be that as it may, an analogy between an act of occupation in history and what is going on today on Azerbaijani land, can only be drawn with the expansionist policy that Armenia is now pursuing. But, I could agree that it is not for us to issue diagnoses to the political conduct of countries, and promulgate them in such terminology as "itchy-bitchy"... Onur Yalcin
Are there any graphics cards for the SE/30 that also have, say, an 040 accelerator? There seem to be plenty of accelerator/graphics cards for the _SE_, but none (that I've seen) for the SE/30. Thanks
I need to bring on my VW Corrado for body work (I got hit). I was wondering if anyone has heard of any of these South Bay body shops: Akins Collision Center of Santa Clara - on Reed St Auto West Collision - in San Jose Los Gatos Acura Royal Auto Body - in Sunnyvale Thanks!
As I understood it, MSG *is* natural. Isn't it found in tomatoes? Anyway, lots of people are terribly allergic to lots of natural things; peanuts, onions, tomatoes, milk, etc. Just because something is 'natural' doesn't mean it won't cause problems with some folks. As for how foods taste: If I'm not allergic to MSG and I like the taste of it, why shouldn't I use it? Saying I shouldn't use it is like saying I shouldn't eat spicy food because my neighbor has an ulcer. People have long modified the taste of food by additives, whether they be chiles, black pepper, salt, cream sauces, etc. All of these things cloud the flavor of the food. Why do we bother with them? How should food be tasted? Isn't it better left to the diner?
How many runs will be scored in Denver? I don't know. but some idea can be gotten by looking at the runs scored in Mile High Stadium during the last few years of the Bears/Zephyrs tenure in the American Association. Here's the total runs scored per game in Zephyrs games, all league games and the ratio. I found the same ratios for HR. Year rpg lea ratio hrpg lea ratio 1992 10.22 9.10 1.12 1.65 1.58 1.04 1991 9.53 8.87 1.07 1.41 1.26 1.12 1990 10.71 8.72 1.23 1.49 1.24 1.20 1989 9.07 8.34 1.09 1.27 1.11 1.14 1988 9.90 8.37 1.18 1.29 1.08 1.19 1987 12.55 10.70 1.17 2.39 1.92 1.24 1986 9.45 9.33 1.01 1.35 1.38 .98 1985 9.50 8.54 1.11 1.53 1.34 1.14 1984 9.99 9.10 1.10 1.55 1.59 .97 1983 10.60 9.99 1.06 2.03 1.74 1.17 1982 11.29 10.35 1.09 2.24 1.91 1.17 1981 10.29 9.25 1.11 1.43 1.49 .96 1980 10.59 9.43 1.12 1.63 1.46 1.12 1446/13-->1.11 1444/13-->1.11 It seems pretty clear that Denver will have a large effect on runs scored (I'll stick with my prediction from last year that it'll be one of the top 3 in the NL this year) and a fairly large effect on Homeruns - though apparently not as large as Atlanta, Wrigley, Cincinnati and San Diego. Still it ought to be a pretty decent home run park.
And who's advocating that? Hate crimes laws are aimed at the motivations of the acts. Just like premeditated homicide is treated stricter than heat-of-passion homicide. So if I set off a bomb in the World Trade Center, I can only be charged with more than one murder, and not the other five deaths and extensive property damage? After all, the bomb was a single act.
Usually one or two teams changes their logo or a minor uniform change per season, but the past few seasons have been incredible. Any thoughts on the new (old) Reds uniforms. I remember seeing a Pete Rose rookie card, and unless I miss my guess he was wearing the exact same duds. The Mets (HOW ABOUT DOC'S PERFORMANCE TODAY?!!!!!) have reinserted the Mets patch on the shoulder, and changed the Mets insgnia on the front of the jersey. To my knowledge it is the first time that has been changed since 1962, and it reminds me a little of the Dodger logo. Many teams have opted for a return to a previous style of uniform, or at least uniforms that look more traditional. (Phillies, Reds, Expos, White Sox, Padres, etc.) and the once bright colors have been altered to gray. The trend has also seen the newer baseball fields resembling the parks of the early years, as opposed to the cookie-cutter saucer stadiums construcrted throughout the sixties. With salaries now reaching unbelievable highs, no one in the comissioner's office, and inter-league play on the horizon, it's nice to see that baseball at least looks like it was meant to be.
Time for a new discussion, maybe ? I asked in these groups some time ago what about the TC++/VE, and got no answers, so I decided to try. My brother who lives in the US bought and sent it to me, and I'm still trying to get used to it. Before I put my good/bad points list, consider I am a Turbo Pascal/DOS programmer, and sometimes try to make something in Unix with C (just some exercises from university). I used to make some programs in Microsoft C version 5 (!!) because we used some third-party libraries that required that. - I like Borland. It seems to me much more easier to use than Microsoft, specially the debugger. I tried to learn Codeview sometimes, but never felt confortable with it. - TC++ V/E seems very nice to create simple apps, like the examples on the ObjectWindows book. So far, no problems. Lets see next week or so, when I will try something more complex. - It works nice even in my "weak" machine 386/16Mhz, 6 Mb Ram. But..... - The manual for the Resource Workshop seems to be from a different version from the Workshop itself. Some of the windows that appear on the manual have more itens than in the manual. - I think I will run into trouble since I got this TC++/VE from my brother as a present. I didnt wanted to buy the Japanese version because 1) I suspect that the manuals will be in Japanese :-( and 2) I believe it will be far more expensive here. So he bought it as a present and sent to me, I send the registration card to the Japanese branch of Borland, but... who knows. So, I'd like to ask some questions for you all; - I know that there are some Microsoft guys around here in this group. Is there anybody from Borland ? Is there any e-mail address that we can contact the technical support ? Not for stupid questions, but to ask for example, why the RW manual seems to be different from the RW itself ? - Is there anybody else using it around here ? - Will the book of Petzold be useful for me ? I intend to use RW and ProtoGen to make the interfaces and then work on the code itself. Answers to my e-mail or comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools, please. Thanks in advance,
Your posting provoked me into checking my save file for memorable posts. The first I captured was by Ken Arromdee on 19 Feb 1990, on the subject "Re: atheist too?". That was article #473 here; your question was article #53766, which is an average of about 48 articles a day for the last three years. As others have noted, the current posting rate is such that my kill file is depressing large...... Among the posting I saved in the early days were articles from the following notables: An interesting bunch.... I wonder where #2 is?
I wonder if he realizes the irony of a Federal Secretary invoking a rabid anti-federalist in support of federal education programs?
While I think it is unrealistic to suppose that the federal agencies will fail to promptly comply with a court order, there is still a good point here. Local law enforcement will be unable to perform a wiretap without bringing in federal agencies. Based on the (possibly incomplete) understanding of the system quoted from D. Denning, only the FBI will be able to decrypt the system key encryption layer, which seems to be needed even to identify what escrowed keys to request. This moves a great deal of law enforcement power to the federal level. The reason I like this point is that it may sway or even persuade people who don't generally line up with the civil liberties crowd. A national police force is opposed by people from a broad range of political viewpoints.
I have a Hewlett-Packard LaserJet Series II Paper Tray for sale. Its letter size (8.5 - 11), brand new in the box and never used. I'm asking $40.00 (bought new at Ballard Computer for $65.95)
The answer to your first question is rather difficult to answer without doing a lot of autopsies. The second question is something that's been known for some time. It appears that within about 15 years of quitting smoking a person's risk for developing lung cancer drops to that of the person who never smoked (assuming you do not get lung cancer in the interim!). The risk to someone who smoked the equivalent of a pack per day for 40 years is around 20 times as high as a non-smoker. Still rather low overall, but significant. Personally, I'd be more concerned about heart disease secondary to smoking -- it's much more common, and even a small increase in risk is significant there.
I won't argue too much about anything. I am probably one of those that think that we can't have enough safety on the roads. I would gladly sacrifice distractions (as you call it), than someone having trouble seeing danger earlier. One saved life justifies more than my lifetime of "distractions" for me. Problem is that, I may just kill the guy. I agree that I would be at fault, and I will have my license revoked, why, I might even go to the gas chamber. But the fact still remains that the guy is dead. Someone died because I was too stingy to put on my lights. The ratio of the probability of fallen trees/rocks on the roads to oncoming traffic is too low to even be considered. The difference is also working on what we *know* could happen, to what *might* happen. Compared to the number of gallons of gas consumed by those 200 million cars, it is miniscule! Whatever..... 'tis a pity I have to share the same roads with a person not concerned with safety. -S ssave@ole.cdac.com
Sorry to put a damper on your plans, but I was there three weeks ago and it wasn't there. Not that I would have known to look for it, of course, but I combed the space exhibits pretty thoroughly and something like that would have caught my attention instantly.
> > > SOmebody mentioned a re-boost of HST during this mission, meaning > that Weight is a very tight margin on this mission. > I haven't heard any hint of a re-boost, or that any is needed. > > why not grapple, do all said fixes, bolt a small liquid fueled > thruster module to HST, then let it make the re-boost. it has to be > cheaper on mass then usingthe shuttle as a tug. Nasty, dirty combustion products! People have gone to monumental efforts to keep HST clean. We certainly aren't going to bolt any thrusters to it.
Would you say the same thing about the Dodgers in '65 or '66? True, Cone is probably as good as Drysdale, and they have no Koufax, but still, these teams were winning with home run leaders who had very bad totals, with lots of low-scoring games, etc. And they didn't use relievers, whereas Jeff Montgomery is having a super season for them. That being said, I still picked them 5th or so, but I think a superb pitching team can win if they have enough hitting. There's more of a chance of that, I think, than of a team with tremendous hitting but no pitching. At least, to me. I wonder, though - which one do you people think would do better - a team with Johnson, Koufax in his prime, Seaver, Carlton, and Young, in no real order, as the starters, with Sutter, Fingers, and Lyle in the bullpen, but with a puny offense (assuming good defense, like Mazeroski, Maranville, etc.) Or a team with poor pitching, but with an offense of Cobb, Carew, Ruth, Gehrig, Mays, Schmidt, Wagner, and Bench - again,you pick the order. I would postulate that the pitching one would be several games better by seasons' end. Even the best hitters can succeed only 2/5 of the time in their best years, but a great pitcher can throw lots of shutouts - taking all the players in their prime, they might throw 50 shutouts in a year. And all the offense would have to do is get 1 run across. I wonder if someone with Stratomatic or something could plug such all- time teams into a regular season, have it played, and report the results I would love to see that.
Can we assume from this statement that you are >unequivocally< saying that AMORC is not a spin off of OTO? .. and that in fact, OTO may well be a spin off of AMORC?? i would be quite interested in hearing what evidence you have to support this claim. Study Smarter, not Harder! :-)
Posted by Cathy Smith for L. Neil Smith WEIRD SCIENCE Everyone knows how to tell when a politician is lying: his lips move. What may not be equally obvious is that there are politicians and then there are politicians -- and that the phrase "political science" is subject to more than one interpretation. Years ago, we heard how "scientists" were worried that a new Ice Age might be coming, and later on that "nuclear winter" -- smoke and dust thrown into the atmosphere by full-scale international unpleasantness -- was a possibility. Something like that may even have killed the dinosaurs. What we didn't hear was that no actual data supported any of this, that real-world events (the burning of Kuwaiti oil fields) tended to discredit it, that mostly it was propaganda meant to weaken values that made America the most successful culture in history, and that the dinosaurs probably died of something like the Plague when continents drifted together, exposing them to new germs. We miss a lot like this, unless we listen closely. Prince William Sound, site of the famous oil spill, and Mount St. Helen's weren't supposed to recover from their respective disasters for at least 100 years. That turned out not to be true, although you'd never know it from watching network nightly news or CNN. It doesn't fit their agenda to inform us that the earth is vast and resilient, and that nature is rougher on herself than we could ever be. But for once, the media aren't entirely to blame. As ignorant of science as they are of everything, they trust "scientists" to unscrew the inscrutable. The trouble is that today's "scientists" have agendas of their own. Nobody in government, that wellspring of scientific wherewithal, is going to offer grants to an investigator who states truthfully that there is no respectable evidence for "global warming". The money and power for bureaucrats and politicians lie in mass transit, and they hate the automobile -- blamed as a major cause of the mythical crisis -- as a source of privacy and freedom they find intolerable. The same appears true of "acid rain", a deliberate hoax cooked up by the Environmental Protection Agency (which hates private industrial capitalism almost as much as it does your car) and foisted on real scientists through trickery which has depended on specialists in different fields not talking to each other much. The list goes on, always with a common, disreputable thread. "Ozone depletion", for which evidence is even more suspect and contradictory than for acid rain or global warming, is no more than a last, desperate attempt to indict private capitalism in an era when state central planning and the command economy have failed and can only find this final, withered leg to teeter on. Decades of anti-nuclear alarmism, resting on foundations of myth and panic-mongering, have failed to erase the fact that nuclear power is the safest, cleanest, most efficient source of energy known to mankind -- and more to the point, that the greater amount of energy there is available to any individual in society, the freer that individual -- and his society -- become. Honest studies on the effects of individual gun ownership and self-defense on crime -- conducted by investigators who began as ideological opponents to those concepts, but which show massive reductions in the latter to be the result of the former -- have been suppressed, most recently by the California state government. And what the media didn't say about recent EPA "discoveries" on the effect of "secondhand smoking" is that, although some harm to non- smokers may have been detected, it was less (by an order or two of magnitude) than that associated with frying bacon a couple times a week or keeping a pet bird. It's enough to make you wonder whether there was ever anything to the claim that smoking causes cancer. That, of course, is the real threat represented by politically correct science. The world is a dangerous place. It would be nice to know the hazards. I've never believed smoking to be a healthy practice, but, given a lack of credibility on the part of today's science, how am I to decide what to do about it? Nicotine is highly addictive, to that much I can attest from experience. Yet the stress of quitting may be riskier than to continue. There isn't any way to tell, thanks to the corrupting influence of government money on the scientific establishment. Two centuries ago, the Founding Fathers spared us certain agonies to which every other nation in the world has been subject at one time or another, by creating a legal barrier between politics and religion. Each time some short-sighted individual or group has tried to lower the barrier (most recently over the issue of abortion), blood -- real human blood, hot and smoking in the street -- has wound up being shed. Real human blood is being shed over scientific issues, as people's lives are ruined through the loss, to agencies like the EPA, of livelihood, or property it may have taken a lifetime to accumulate, to diseases caused by toxins associated with burning fossil fuels for electrical power, or thanks to bans on things like cyclamates, when they die from the effects of obesity. What we need now, if we hope to survive as a civilization for two more centuries, is another barrier, a Constitutional separation of state and science -- including medicine. Knowledge is valuable; real science won't languish for lack of funding. The money will simply come from contributors unwilling to pay for lies, and everyone will benefit. L. Neil Smith Author: THE PROBABILITY BROACH, THE CRYSTAL EMPIRE, HENRY MARTYN, and (forthcoming) PALLAS LEVER ACTION BBS (303) 493-6674, FIDOnet: 1:306/31.4 Libertarian Second Amendment Caucus NRA Life Member
Is anyone going to the P.B frenzy at Cadwell park in May. I am going, but only to watch.
Or you may be posting this WAY TOO EARLY and be eating your words by mid-season. C'mon, the Phillies haven't proved anything yet. Atlanta was similar to the Phils 2 years ago. They sucked. They started having a good year, but didn't get any respect until they actually won the division. (which is how it should be) So until the Phils AT LEAST have a good year, not just a good 2 weeks, they won't get any respect either. BTW, Atlanta's .188 BA is actually a compliment to how good the Braves really are. Their record is 6-3. Can you imagine the Phils record if they were batting .188? hahahaha. And Atlanta's hitting will improve dramatically. No, I'm not a Braves fan. Just defending a good team. Orin. Bradley U.
I assume you have evidence that he was responsible for the deaths? Again, I'd like to see some evidence. Once again, where's your proof? Suicide is considered a sin by Branch Davidians. Also, Koresh said over and over again that he was not going to commit suicide. Furthermore, all the cult experts said that he was not suicidal. David Thibedeau (sp?), one of the cult members, said that the fire was started when one of the tanks spraying the tear gas into the facilities knocked over a lantern. Evidence please? I'd like to point out that the Bible says "Do not commit murder." The NKJ translation mistranslates. Self-defense was never considered murder. The reason why they were stockpiling weapons is because they were afraid the government would try something. Their fears were obviously well founded. --Ray Cote
I think that Mike Foligno was the captain of the Sabres when he got traded to the Leafs. Also, wasn't Rick Vaive the captain of the Leafs when he got traded to Chicago (with Steve Thomas for Ed Olcyzk and someone). Speaking of the Leafs, I believe that Darryl Sittler was their captain (he'd torn the "C" off his jersey but I think he re-claimed the captaincy later on) when he was traded to the Flyers. Oh yeah, of course, Gretzky was the captain of the Oilers before he was traded wasn't he?
Yes, Ivan Rodriguez, last year. Batted .260 and threw out 51% of the baserunners. Not too shabby for a rookie from AA. 20 years old last year.
no argument on going direct to National (see my previous post on this topic), but some info regarding what you said above. I don't know about the 8250 or 16450, but NS was the original source for the 16550 series (and I strongly suspect that they developed the others first, too). I can also tell you that I'm one of those who won't buy a UART made by anyone other than National Semiconductor. --jim -- #include <std_disclaimer.h> 73 DE N5IAL (/4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ INTERNET: jim@n5ial.mythical.com | j.graham@ieee.org ICBM: 30.23N 86.32W AMATEUR RADIO: n5ial@w4zbb (Ft. Walton Beach, FL) AMTOR SELCAL: NIAL
The roar at Michigan and Trumbull should be loader than ever this year. With Mike Illitch at the head and Ernie Harwell back at the booth, the tiger bats will bang this summer. Already they have scored 20 runs in two games and with Fielder, Tettleton, and Deer I think they can win the division. No pitching! Bull! Gully, Moore, Wells, and Krueger make up a decent staff that will keep the team into many games. Then there is Henneman to close it out. Watch out Boston, Toronto, and Baltimore - the Motor City Kittys are back.
Piper lived in my town (Williamsport, PA) when he killed himself. It was in the early '60's. He had had more than a few books published by that time, but he was down on his luck financially. Rumor was that he was hunting urban pigeons with birdshot for food. He viewed himself as a resourceful man, and (IMO) decided to check out gracefully if he couldn't support himself. The worst part is that John Campbell, the long-time editor of Astounding/Analog SF magazine had cut a check for Piper's most recent story, and said check was in the mail. If Campbell had known Piper's straits, I'm sure he would have phoned to say hang on. Campbell was like that. I wish it had happened differently. I always enjoyed Piper's stuff.
A professor of mine once said "The difference between a Computer Engineer and a Computer Scientist is about $5000" meaning the Engineer makes $5000 more than the CS. Seriously though the main difference is that most CS people write programs that people will use, i.e. database, graphics, word processors, etc., while an engineer writes for machines or control systems, i.e. the "computer" in your car, a flight control system, computer controled devices, etc. In other words CS writes SOFTWARE while CSE writes FIRMWARE. These are generalizations but for the most part that is what the difference is.
[deletia- and so on] I seem to have been rather unclear. What I was asking is this: Please show me that the most effective substance-absure recovery programs involve meetinsg peoples' spiritual needs, rather than merely attempting to fill peoples' spiritual needs as percieved by the people, A.A, S.R.C. regulars, or snoopy. This will probably involve defining "spritual needs" (is it not that clear) and showing that such things exist and how they can be filled. Annother tack you might take is to say that "fulfilling spiritual needs" means "acknowledging a "higher power" of some sort, then show that systems that do require this, work better than otherwise identical systems that do not. A correlation here would help you, but as you point out this might just be demonstrating swapping one crutch for annother. (however, I do feel that religion is usually a better crutch than alchohol, as it is not usually poisonous! :) ) I hope with that clarification, my question will be answerable. I actually did know about the 12 step program, its the question of what it does, rather than what it tries to do, that makes a difference to me. --- - Dan Johnson And God said "Jeeze, this is dull"... and it *WAS* dull. Genesis 0:0
Quoting jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu in article <1r3jgbINN35i@eli.CS.YALE.EDU>:
53 seconds to hash 20M of core (I bet I know who the source of your information is!). No, it's not acceptable if it's part of your login process. But if you are going to use network traffic as the source of pseudo-random information, do the right thing and pass it through a cryptographic hash function, not a compressor. Aside from the fact that it will run faster, it will give better results (think of a cryptographic hash as a function that "distills" randomness). Something along the lines of etherfind -t -x -n | dd bs=1k count=10 2>/dev/null | md5 should do the trick. -t gives you timestamps, and the lack of -u makes sure that dd does not get ten lines as opposed to ten K. The above takes a couple of seconds on a lightly-loaded ethernet.
After reading some of the reports of possible NHL moves to Milwaukee or that Milwaukee should have an NHL team, I thought I'd pass along a story I heard recently. This is second hand, so I don't know how true it is, but I have no reason to doubt it either. Bradley Center in Milwaukee is home to the Milwaukee Admirals minor leauge hockey team. The owner of the Admirals (sorry, I can't remember his name) either owns or at least shelled out the majority of the funds to build the Bradley Center. Supposedly he was approached by the NHL about an expansion franchise, but turned it down because he thought the franchise fee of $50 million was too high. Like I said, I don't know whether this story is true or just a rumor, but if it's true, don't look for an NHL team in Milwaukee anytime soon. The Admirals aren't going to be forced out of the building and you won't see an NHL club and a minor league club in the same building, especially since the NBA's Milwaukee Bucks play there as well.
For Sale: 1987 Honda XR-100R dirt bike. Bought new from dealer in 1989. Ridden only 4 hours, garage kept and well cared for. The bike is in MINT condition; perfect size for lady or young adult. price: $600 firm. You will not be disappointed. Ohio/Kentucky/Indiana inquiries preferred please. work: (513) - 576-5986. Leave voicemail please.
In regards to fractal commpression, I have seen 2 fractal compressed "movies". They were both fairly impressive. The first one was a 64 gray scale "movie" of Casablanca, it was 1.3MB and had 11 minutes of 13 fps video. It was a little grainy but not bad at all. The second one I saw was only 3 minutes but it had 8 bit color with 10fps and measured in at 1.2MB. I consider the fractal movies a practical thing to explore. But unlike many other formats out there, you do end up losing resolution. I don't know what kind of software/hardware was used for creating the "movies" I saw but the guy that showed them to me said it took 5-15 minutes per frame to generate. But as I said above playback was 10 or more frames per second. And how else could you put 11 minutes on one floppy disk?
Flights of fancy, and other irrational approaches, are common. The crucial thing is not to sit around just having fantasies; they aren't of any use unless they make you do some experiments. I've known a lot of scientists whose fantasies lead them on to creative work; usually they won't admit out loud what the fantasy was, prior to the consumption of a few beers. (Simple example: Warren Jelinek noticed an extremely heavy band on a DNA electrophoresis gel of human ALU fragments. He got very excited, hoping that he'd seen some essential part of the control mechanism for eukaryotic genes. This fantasy led him to sequence samples of the band and carry out binding assays. The result was a well-conserved, 400 or so bp, sequence that occurs about 500,000 times in the human genome. Unfortunately for Warren's fantasy, it turns out to be a transposon that is present in so many copies because it replicates itself and copies itself back into the genome. On the other hand, the characteristics of transposons were much elucidated; the necessity of a cellular reverse transcriptase was recognized; and the standard method of recognizing human DNA was created. Other species have different sets of transposons. Fortunately for me, Warren and I used to eat dinner at T.G.I. Fridays all the time.) I'm not sure that it's random. But there is no known rational mechanism for generating a rich set of interesting hypotheses. If you are really working in an unknown area, it is unlikely that you will have much sense of what might or might not be true; under those circumstances, the best thing to do is just follow whatever instincts you have. If they are wrong, you will find out soon enough; but at least, you will find out _something_. If you try to do experiments at random, with no prior conceptions at all in mind, you will probably get nowhere. Unfortunately, the critical function does sometimes become hostage to non-rational forces. Then we get varieties of pathological science: Lysenko, Mirsky's opposition to DNA-as-gene, cold fusion, and so forth. I don't agree that this follows. In fact, this is _exactly_ the point at which I disagree with Feyerabend. It is a most important part of the culture of science that one keeps one's jealousies out of the refereeing process. Failures there are aplenty, but, on the whole, things work out. Another point: there are a couple of senses of the phrase ``experimental design''. I'd say that the less rational part is in experimental _choice_, not design. Alexander Fleming (Proc. Royal Soc., 1922) chose to look for bacteriophage in his own mucus for strange reasons (Phage had previously been found in locust diarrhea; Fleming probably thought runny bottom, runny nose, what the hell, it's worth a try.) but his method of looking for phage was well-designed to detect anything phage-like; in fact, he found lysozyme. It is not clear to me what you mean by rational vs. irrational. Perhaps you can give a few examples of surprising experiments that were tried out for perfectly rational reasons, or interesting new theories that were first advanced from logical grounds. The main examples I can think of are from modern high-energy physics which is not typical of science as a whole.
I love the FAQ. The comment about contact lenses not being an option for any remaining correction after RK and possibly after PRK is interresting. Why is this? Does anyone know for sure whether this applies to PRK as well? Also, why is it possible to get a correction in PRK with involvement of only about 5% of the corneal depth, while RK is done to a depth of up to 95%? Why such a difference? I thought the proceedures were simmilar with the exception of a laser being the cutting tool in PRK. I must not be understanding all of the differences. In the FAQ, the vision was considered less clear after the surgery than with glasses alone. If this is completly attributable to the intentional slight undercorrection, then it can be compensated for when necessary with glasses (or contacts, if they CAN be worn afterall!). It is important to know if that is not the case, however, and some other consequence of the surgery would often interfere with clear vision. The first thing that came to my mind was a fogging of the lense, which glasses couldn't help. would not help.
Ok, this is the only thing I will comment on from Stan at this time... part of this forum we call rec.scouting is for policy discussions and related topics. This is a policy discussion, and involves related topics. this is not a "fringe" group discussion. obviously, it engenders strong feelings from all sides of the issues at hand. Wether a particular view is anti-societal or not is your opinion, and yours alone, don't try to make it seem otherwise. If you do not wish to engage in this discussion, use a kill file. If you wish to continue in this discussion, please do so, knowing full well the implications that apply. I know for myself that I plan on continuing with the discussion when i have the wish to have input. I for one am tired of people trying to say that this is not a matter significant for this group! It is, and quite so. Especially for those of us who feel the impact more closely.
Thanks Ron and Peter for some very nice maps. I have an advice though. You wrote that the maps were reduced to 256 colors. As far ad I understand JPEG pictures gets much better (and the compressed files smaller) if you use the original 3 color 24 bit data when converting to JPEG. Thanks again,
Well, I'm back from Tokyo, so here are the standings after the April 13 update. - Andrew USENET Hockey Draft Standings Week 27 Posn Team Pts Proj Cash Last Posn 1. Dave Wessels 1536 1572.8 1.9 (1) 2. Bob Hill 1481 1538.1 24.0 (3) 3. Gilles Carmel 1492 1529.9 1.0 (2) 4. Seppo Kemppainen 1430 1514.0 47.2 (5) 5. The Awesome Oilers 1412 1504.4 68.6 (4) 6. Hillside Raiders 1456 1495.2 7.0 (7) 7. Mak "The Knife" Paranjape 1424 1491.7 31.0 (6) 8. Jan Stein 1412 1483.2 35.3 (8) 9. this years model 1428 1479.3 17.6 (10) 10. Rangers Of Destiny 1401 1475.9 42.0 (9) Tapio Repo 1422 1475.9 19.6 (11) 12. FRANK'S BIG FISH 1398 1453.9 22.0 (12) 13. The Underachievers 1409 1452.9 10.1 (13) 14. On Thin Ice 1380 1440.9 32.3 (14) 15. Go Flames 1367 1438.1 40.3 (17) 16. littlest giants 1370 1437.7 35.6 (16) 17. Mopar Muscle Men 1400 1431.4 3.7 (18) 18. Lindros Losers 1396 1431.2 1.7 (15) 19. DIE Penguin Bandwaggoners 1357 1411.0 20.2 (19) 20. Samuel Lau (Calgary, Alberta) 1360 1396.3 4.9 (20) 21. Boomer's Boys 1341 1371.6 0.2 (23) 22. General Accounting Office 1316 1369.4 20.9 (21) 23. Delaware Wombats 1341 1367.5 1.3 (24) 24. Migods Menschen 1307 1366.8 31.6 (22) 25. Wellsy's Buttheads DEC NH 1280 1362.3 52.6 (25) 26. Rocky Mountain High 1325 1357.2 1.8 (26) 27. Fife Flyers 1283 1348.4 31.4 (27) 28. Gerald Olchowy 1275 1340.2 33.7 (28) 29. Dave Snell 1281 1335.7 25.0 (59) 30. Fluide Glacial 1291 1333.7 18.0 (29) 31. Gaoler 1279 1321.5 11.2 (30) 32. SmegHeads 1289 1315.8 0.3 (31) 33. The Young And The Skateless 1235 1305.6 42.9 (32) 34. Sam & His Dogs 1262 1297.3 11.6 (34) 35. Neural Netters 1251 1294.2 11.3 (35) 36. Youngbucs 1206 1288.1 101.7 (36) 37. Artic Storm 1220 1287.7 39.3 (33) 38. Soft Swedes 1205 1281.5 46.9 (37) 39. Jeff Horvath 1239 1268.6 5.6 (38) 40. Milton Keynes Kings 1229 1262.5 2.8 (40) 41. Hamster from Hoboken 1223 1257.0 8.7 (41) Kuehn Crushers 1185 1257.0 45.1 (45) 43. Le Fleur de Lys 1202 1256.9 25.3 (42) 44. Yan The Man Loke 1225 1255.5 0.7 (39) 45. Legion of Hoth 1208 1251.1 15.8 (48) 46. Simmonac 1169 1249.4 87.6 (44) 47. The Finnish Force 1192 1245.1 22.5 (46) 48. ice legion 1193 1244.8 28.8 (43) 49. Streaks 1161 1242.8 54.8 (47) 50. Brian Bergman 1190 1241.0 23.3 (55) 51. Goaldingers 1190 1239.3 22.0 (49) 52. T C OverAchievers 1209 1237.0 2.9 (52) 53. Grant Marven 1196 1231.2 2.9 (50) 54. Bozrah Bruins 1155 1223.9 45.2 (54) 55. Real Bad Toe Jam 1150 1223.4 48.9 (62) 56. Houdini's Magicians 1181 1222.4 18.3 (61) 57. Skriko Wolves 1186 1221.5 5.4 (53) 58. rec.sport.hockey choices 1196 1221.1 1.3 (63) 59. buffalo soldiers 1142 1220.3 62.1 (65) 60. bemybaby 1140 1219.9 54.2 (51) 61. LIPPE 1179 1215.2 13.9 (56) 62. Randy Coulman 1185 1214.8 5.2 (57) 63. LAMP LIGHTERS 1180 1211.6 5.9 (58) 64. Steven And Mark Dream Team 1174 1206.2 3.1 (60) 65. Indianapolis Bennies 1160 1205.4 20.8 (66) 66. Tom 1160 1202.8 13.1 (68) 67. Bloom County All Stars 1164 1198.8 4.3 (67) 68. Bruins 1174 1198.5 0.1 (72) 69. Phil and Kev's Karma Dudes 1172 1198.0 0.8 (69) 70. smithw 1146 1194.5 21.0 (73) 71. Iowa Hockeyes 1149 1193.8 16.3 (64) 72. Doug Bowles 1146 1190.6 20.0 (71) 73. The Great Pumpkin 1108 1187.3 54.4 (74) 74. NON! 1145 1186.4 16.4 (77) 75. shooting seamen 1161 1183.3 0.1 (75) 76. Frank Worthless 1149 1182.7 6.3 (76) 77. AIK Exiles 1116 1179.8 34.5 (70) 78. Invisible Inc 1156 1177.4 1.1 (78) 79. Brad Gibson 1126 1176.9 27.2 (79) 80. Cougarmania 1114 1165.7 24.8 (88) 81. Kortelaisen Kovat 1086 1165.2 164.1 (85) 82. PLP Fools 1135 1163.1 0.1 (81) 83. David Wong 1082 1161.6 66.1 (84) 84. John Zupancic 1102 1160.7 27.1 (82) 85. garryola 1121 1159.4 9.7 (89) 86. Gary Bergman Fan Club 1128 1157.6 5.1 (93) 87. Staffan Axelsson 1120 1157.1 15.1 (83) 88. Chubby Checkers 1110 1156.2 16.3 (80) 89. Derrill's Dastardly Dozen 1109 1155.0 22.1 (90) 90. Chocolate Rockets 1121 1150.7 2.5 (86) 91. Ken DeCruyenaere 1113 1147.9 5.0 (87) 92. Fisher Dirtbags 1119 1147.4 0.7 (94) 93. KODIAKS 1122 1146.0 1.3 (95) 94. No Namers 1067 1145.8 58.2 (91) 95. The Campi Machine 1061 1145.2 65.3 (92) 96. BSC Oranienburg 1115 1142.4 7.1 (98) 97. The Kamucks 1064 1141.5 76.1 (97) 98. Arsenal Maple Leafs 1108 1138.4 3.8 (96) 99. Ellis Islanders 1096 1128.0 7.6 (100) 100. Mombasa Mosquitos 1090 1122.4 6.1 (101) 101. Zachmans Wingers 1051 1122.1 49.8 (103) 102. Edelweiss 1091 1121.0 2.9 (102) 103. Bjoern Leaguen 1039 1118.5 61.4 (112) 104. Dirty White Socks 1050 1116.5 43.4 (105) 105. Wormtown Woosbags 1039 1116.1 72.6 (104) 106. Neil Younger 1036 1115.0 77.7 (114) 107. Hurricane Andrew 1082 1114.8 7.6 (106) 108. King Suke 1089 1114.5 0.1 (110) 109. Larry 1078 1114.3 11.8 (107) 110. Het Schot Is Hard 1076 1113.6 18.1 (115) 111. VoteNoOct26 1056 1112.6 31.8 (108) 112. Bloodgamers 1046 1111.6 42.1 (99) Bruce's Rented Mules 1077 1111.6 11.9 (108) 114. Teem Kanada 1075 1110.6 16.0 (111) 115. Frank's Follies 1063 1106.5 24.2 (113) 116. Oklahoma Stormchasers 1053 1103.6 28.3 (121) 117. SPUDS 1068 1103.4 12.6 (119) 118. Pond Slime 1081 1102.3 0.7 (117) 119. PSV Dartmouth 1071 1101.4 7.1 (116) 120. Mark Sanders 1065 1099.2 11.1 (120) 121. Blue Talon 1062 1096.5 13.3 (126) 122. Stanford Ice Hawks 1043 1094.7 28.2 (118) 123. Aye Carumba!!! 1063 1089.6 3.9 (124) 124. Kokudo Keikaku Bunnies 1021 1088.0 40.3 (125) 125. Timo Ojala 1059 1085.7 0.3 (122) 126. Haral 1057 1085.3 7.3 (128) 127. Cluster Buster 1048 1083.4 7.6 (136) 128. Dirty Rotten Puckers 1054 1082.7 1.2 (135) 129. Apricot Fuzzfaces 1037 1081.1 23.3 (127) 130. The Lost Poots 1048 1080.5 6.7 (132) 131. Nesbitt 1058 1078.6 1.1 (123) 132. Gary Bill Pens Dynasty 1035 1077.8 19.6 (144) 133. garys team 1035 1076.2 17.1 (129) 134. Arctic Circles 1012 1074.1 37.6 (131) 135. Seattle PFTB 1028 1074.0 22.9 (132) 136. Late Night with David Letterman 1049 1073.7 0.0 (130) 137. Le Groupe MI 1020 1073.2 30.2 (141) 138. GO BRUINS 1046 1072.7 6.2 (140) 139. Scott Glenn 1038 1069.7 10.2 (138) 140. Flying Kiwis 1035 1068.7 9.1 (136) 141. team gold 1029 1067.4 16.7 (142) 142. Closet Boy's Boys 995 1064.6 48.0 (143) 143. Wild Hearted Sons 1036 1064.4 4.9 (153) 144. boutch 92-93 1023 1063.2 20.0 (134) 145. Andy Y F WONG 1019 1062.6 21.5 (147) Wembley LostWeekenders 1040 1062.6 0.3 (152) 147. McKees Rocks Rockers 1036 1062.4 5.1 (144) 148. Book 'em Danno's Bushbabies 1032 1062.1 10.5 (163) 149. Dree Hobbs 1020 1060.2 13.4 (139) 150. GO HABS GO 1027 1058.1 8.0 (151) 151. Goddess Of Fermentation 1005 1057.8 30.2 (156) 152. Tim Rogers 1024 1056.8 8.1 (146) 153. convex stars 1026 1055.9 5.6 (160) 154. Einstein's Rock Band 1033 1055.7 0.0 (154) 155. Princeton Canucks 979 1055.5 124.2 (150) 156. Tap 1028 1055.2 0.5 (155) 157. Hubert's Hockey Homeboys 1030 1053.9 0.6 (163) Buttered Waffles 981 1053.9 46.0 (148) 159. MY TEAM 977 1052.0 174.8 (162) 160. Bob's Blues 980 1050.9 46.8 (149) 161. furleys furies 1021 1046.6 3.6 (159) 162. HUNTERS & COLLECTORS 982 1045.9 42.4 (157) Les Nordiques 974 1045.9 60.4 (161) 164. Satan's Choice 1012 1045.3 14.5 (173) 165. Dr Joel Fleishman 1020 1043.9 3.7 (158) 166. Sundogs 1017 1040.9 0.4 (166) 167. Pierre Mailhot 1017 1039.9 2.6 (175) 168. Slap Shot Marco 966 1037.8 51.8 (168) 169. San Jose Mahi Mahi 989 1037.6 31.8 (178) 170. The Leafs Rule!!!! 990 1037.3 25.8 (174) 171. Jeff Nimeroff 963 1036.5 48.8 (167) 172. Stimpy ADG Zeta 996 1035.2 21.0 (178) 173. The Dreamers 958 1034.6 63.7 (170) 174. East City Jokers 956 1033.7 69.1 (171) 175. Daryl Turner 1008 1033.1 2.4 (169) 176. riding the pine 988 1031.8 20.7 (165) 177. Flowers 957 1030.4 113.6 (172) 178. Darse Billings 975 1029.3 34.7 (185) 179. Chappel's Chumps 984 1027.9 24.0 (186) 180. LANA Inc 982 1027.2 27.3 (182) 181. Spinal Tap 963 1026.6 41.4 (177) 182. JimParker 949 1025.9 179.0 (187) 183. Enforcers 980 1023.9 28.1 (189) 184. Jeff Bachovchin 949 1020.7 46.7 (180) Big Bad Bruins 981 1020.7 18.5 (183) 186. Mike Mac Cormack Sydney NS CAN 944 1020.6 107.2 (184) 187. Bulldogs 973 1019.7 23.4 (181) 188. voyageurs 996 1017.2 2.7 (176) 189. Absolut Lehigh 984 1015.4 8.9 (190) 190. Republican Dirty Tricksters 930 1010.4 66.0 (188) 191. Henry's Bar B Q 990 1007.7 0.7 (197) 192. Dr.D And The S.O.D. 968 1007.3 17.1 (192) 193. Bunch of Misfits 957 1006.9 23.8 (193) 194. Robyns Team 955 1005.5 30.0 (198) 195. Yellow Plague 969 1003.4 14.2 (191) 196. Ninja Turtles 982 1003.0 1.3 (194) 197. Team Melville 930 999.1 46.9 (199) 198. Acadien 962 998.6 18.3 (201) 199. DARMAN'S Dragons 950 998.4 28.3 (209) 200. Kuta Papercuts 961 998.2 18.5 (207) 201. Great Expectations 972 998.0 2.3 (195) 202. Cobra's Killers 942 996.4 31.7 (205) 203. Cherry Bombers 971 995.6 1.2 (196) 204. Jayson's Kinky Pucks 943 989.9 26.9 (204) 205. Killer Apes 947 989.7 24.3 (208) 206. Kaufbeuren Icebreakers 929 989.1 37.6 (202) 207. Umpire 4 life 950 987.8 11.1 (200) 208. Roger Smith 927 987.0 39.6 (210) 209. Firebirds 960 983.8 3.9 (203) 210. Those 1st few weeks hurt! 905 982.9 55.9 (211) 211. IKEA Wholesale 958 982.0 1.7 (213) 212. Outlaws 903 975.6 164.9 (206) 213. The 200 Club 944 969.4 6.8 (219) 214. Thundering Herd 887 966.7 163.6 (212) 215. Believe it or dont 926 966.6 21.1 (214) 216. Creeping Death 924 965.7 21.3 (217) 217. Knee Injuries 932 965.6 10.4 (218) 218. Crazy Euros 927 965.3 17.9 (220) 219. Frack Attack 918 965.0 27.3 (221) Todd's Turkeys 942 965.0 1.9 (222) 221. Ryan's Renegades 893 961.7 50.9 (223) 222. fred mckim 889 961.5 93.0 (215) 223. 400 Hurricane 909 960.4 32.1 (216) 224. pig vomit 936 958.3 1.3 (225) 225. Ice Strykers 882 955.4 105.4 (226) 226. Fighting Geordies 882 953.7 141.6 (227) 227. CDN Stuck in Alabama 925 951.6 10.3 (228) 228. dayton bomber 932 951.5 0.0 (236) 229. Cafall and Crew 892 948.2 38.3 (224) 230. Chris of Death 872 945.0 83.6 (232) 231. Swillbellies 902 941.9 18.7 (230) 232. Banko's Beer Rangers 913 940.4 4.2 (233) Zipper Heads 892 940.4 33.9 (237) 234. NY Flames 907 938.8 7.8 (234) 235. Ship's Way 913 938.7 8.7 (229) 236. Laubsters II 861 937.6 201.6 (235) 237. Oz 878 934.1 35.0 (231) 238. Joliet Inmates 872 933.5 45.8 (239) 239. Ninja Bunnies 858 925.9 44.9 (238) 240. Great Scott 853 924.6 73.3 (242) 241. Widefield White Wolves 861 919.7 36.9 (240) 242. The Ice Holes 890 912.7 2.7 (246) 243. SANDY'S SABRES 886 910.8 4.7 (244) 244. Daves Team 858 910.7 32.0 (241) 245. South Carolina Tiger Paws 835 909.0 78.4 (243) 246. Florida Tech Burgh Team 844 908.9 49.3 (245) 247. Leos Blue Chips 874 902.5 10.4 (247) 248. For xtc 874 900.0 8.2 (248) 249. roadrunners 861 899.7 18.5 (249) 250. Mudville Kings 851 897.8 27.6 (250) 251. New Jersey Rob 876 894.2 0.7 (253) 252. Redliners 856 893.3 15.9 (251) 253. Pat Phillips 859 887.6 10.1 (252) 254. Stewart Clamen 851 869.6 1.6 (254) 255. Demon Spawn 820 866.1 25.0 (255) 256. Sunnyvale Storm 804 818.4 0.2 (256) 257. Allez les Blues 738 809.1 476.9 (257) 258. Up For Sale Hockey Club 749 789.4 23.0 (258) 259. Petes Picks 721 788.0 168.5 (259) 260. RINACO 709 781.8 114.0 (260) 261. Brenz Revenge 691 713.3 4.0 (261) 262. Dinamo Riga 595 663.9 571.6 (262) -- Andrew Scott | andrew@idacom.hp.com HP IDACOM Telecom Operation | (403) 462-0666 ext. 253
We all know this will never happen. Because the Police are under the wings of Government, they will always be considered more important than Citizens. Government pens, pencils and paper are considered more important than Citizens.
I am working on a project where we are going to be including both still and moving grapics within a database. Of course JPEG and MPEG come to mind as the formats of choice for the various files. However, from what I read on the Net, it seems as if there are several different forms of each of these. What I want to do, is settle on a file format which I can count on as being a standard format 10 years from now. I know Apple is going to support Quicktime on the new Power PC's and, so this may be the format of choice. What format does Apple's Quicktime use for their products? I guess it is some kind of MPEG for their motion picture. Is it any different than standard MPEG files? Thanx for any info!
: [ The discussion begins: why does the universe exist at all? ] : One of the Laws of Nature, specifying cause and effect seems to dictate : (at least to this layman's mind) there must be a causal event. No : reasonable alternative exists. I would argue that causality is actually a property of spacetime; causes precede their effects. But if you claim that there must be an answer to "how" did the universe (our spacetime) emerge from "nothing", science has some good candidates for an answer. I have always wondered why Christians use the "There are questions science (or atheism) cannot answer" argument; I hope this is the appropriate group to ask this question. The most popular question is the question of origins. Why does the universe exist, or anything, for that matter? I think this question should actually be split into two parts, namely 1) Why is there existence? Why anything exists? and 2) How did the universe emerge from nothing? It is clear science has nothing to say about the first question. However, is it a meaningful question, after all? I would say it isn't. Consider the following: A die-hard skeptic being (be it human or whatever) attempts to doubt one's very existence. Since it is so easy to doubt everything else - I cannot be _sure_ the world exists, it may be my mind fooling me - can I ever be sure I exist? However, it is only possible to exist or not to exist. (Someone insert an appropriate Shakespeare quote here ;-) ) A being that does not exist cannot doubt one's existence. A being that does exist can doubt one's existence, but this would be pointless - the being would exist anyway. Let us return to the original question: why? A being that does not exist does not need any reasons for its non-existence. This being is not _sure_ whether anything else exists but his mind, but let us assume that the world exists independent of the mind (the objectivity postulate). The question "why anything exists" can be countered by demanding answer to a question "why there is nothing in nothingness, or in non-existence". Actually, both questions turn out to be devoid of meaning. Things that exist do, and things that don't exist don't exist. Tautology at its best. I seriously doubt God could have an answer to this question. Some Christians I have talked to have said that actually, God is Himself the existence. However, I see several problems with this answer. First, it inevitably leads to the conclusion that God is actually _all_ existence, good and evil, devils and angels, us and them. This is pantheism, not Christianity. Another answer is that God is the _source_ of all existence. This sounds much better, but I am tempted to ask: Does God Himself exist, then? If God is the source of His own existence, it can only mean that He has, in terms of human time, always existed. But this is not the same as the source of all existence. This argument sounds like God does not exist, but meta-exists, and from His meta-existent perspective, He created existence. I think this is actually a nonsolution, a mere twist of words. The best answer I have heard is that human reasoning is incapable of understanding such questions. Being an atheist myself, I do not accept such answers, since I do not have any other methods. The second question: How did the universe emerge from nothing? belongs to the domain of science, and I, for one, do not doubt the question can be answered by its methods. Many cosmologists have suggested that it is entirely possible for universes to emerge from vacuum (this possibility has been suggested in a recent Hawking biography; see also Lizhi & Shuxian: Creation of the Universe, World Scientific, 1989). However, I think the sci groups are more appropriate for discussions like this. : As far as I can tell, the very laws of nature demand a "why". That isn't : true of something outside of nature (i.e., *super*natural). This is not true. Science is a collection of models telling us "how", not why, something happens. I cannot see any good reason why the "why" questions would be bound only to natural things, assuming that the supernatural domain exists. If supernatural beings exist, it is as appropriate to ask why they do so as it is to ask why we exist. : I believe the "genetic code" will be entirely deciphered in our lifetimes, : but we will not see man convert entirely inert material into self sustaining, : reproducing life, *ever*. (I've never been much of a prophet, though. I : can't even *picture* New York in my mind 8^] ). I don't believe *any* : technology would be able to produce that necessary *spark* of life, despite : having all of the parts available. Just my opinion. This opinion is also called vitalism; namely, that living systems are somehow _fundamentally_ different from inanimate systems. Do Christians in general adopt this position? What would happen when scientists announce they have created primitive life (say, small bacteria) in a lab? There is a problem with your prophecy: artificial life has been created, although not yet in a chemical form. Computer simulations of evolution contain systems that are as much alive as any bacterium, although their code is electronic, as well as their metabolism. See a recent book Steven Levy: Artificial life - The Quest for a New Creation. Jonathan Cape, London 1992. Artificial chemical life is just around the corner - after all, no spark of life has been found to be necessary; living systems do not violate any physical laws as we know them. : You don't mind if a few of us send up a prayer on your behalf during your : research, do you? After all, if we of Christ are deluding ourselves, you : really have nothing to worry about, eh? Exactly. This is why I think atheists should _not_ post any evangelical atheist arguments to soc.religion groups, since people who seek to find peace in religions must be allowed to gather together. I would normally have asked these questions in alt.atheism or talk.religion.misc, but it seems many Christians do not read these groups. Petri
The majority of those who can open their mouths in public perhaps. There seems quite alot of incentive for the British to have control of NI, like using the North Channel and Irish Sea as a waste dump (I was appalled at the dumping I saw in the harbor in Belfast). It is my understanding that quite alot of radioactivity enters the water -- it'd be quite a problem if NI got its independence from Britain and then stopped accepting the waste. Are you suggesting that British industry isn't making profit off the situation as well?
What follows is my opinion. It is not asserted to be "the truth" so no flames, please. It comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior corporate staff executive in two Fortune 50 companies. I'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the NSA for business, if they told me it was more secure than DES, and in particular resistant to attempts by Japanese, French, and other competitive companies and governments to break. I'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys, provided I was happy about the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the Federal Reserve would certainly satisfy me, as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms). I'd trust the NSA or the President if they stated there were no trap doors--I'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure. I'd trust something from the NSA long before I'd trust something from some Swiss or anybody Japanese. This may seem surprising to some here, but I suggest most corporations would feel the same way. Most/many/some (pick one) corporations have an attitude that the NSA is part of our government and "we support our government", as one very famous CEO put it to me one day. Just some perspective from another point of view.
Kovalev is too talented a player to play for Roger Nielson...Roger needs players who can't think for themselves and can only skate in straight lines up and down the ice. Dudley and Nielson are the only two coaches bad enough in the league to take talents like Mogilny and Kovalev and not know how to turn them into Bure and Selanne. Get Muckler as coach, and Kovalev will look like Mogilny. The trouble with the Rangers is that Neil Smith went out and got players like Messier, Kovalev, and Graves who have been schooled in taking the game to their opponent and attacking, while hiring coaches who are interested in "rope-a-dope" strategies. If you want the Roger Nielsons of the world to be your coach you don't go out and get a Mark Messier, who is an old dog who can't learn new tricks from a known loser, and you don't waste your draft picks on players like Kovalev. Gerald
Sorry, by "they" I meant autobahns, not US freeways. Well, I've driven in every state but Alaska, and drive about 60k per year. I take long cross country trips any chance I get - its fun for me and I can get reimbursment. My job allows me to drive rather than fly. Not to labor the point, but I've driven just about every freewayin the US, Germany, UK and France plus some in Mexico, which was surpisingly good. Yes, but as a %age of the total freeway in the US? All you have to do in this case is mark the hazard, advising people to slow to 85 or so. Texas freeways are varied, sometimes a good surface. Mostly flat. But, I5 in CA is comparable and hilly. Given the absence of other traffic and car built for 130 (e.g. 535) most US freeways are just fine. The problem is other road users and cops.
I have 2 foot switches for sale. They're great for guitar amps, and keyboards. Each is about 1" in diameter with a 6' (or so) cable. I'd like $15 for both, but make me an offer, who knows... -Jason
I was under the impression that the objective is to find conclusive evidence that the puck _did_ cross the line. And, the replays I saw showed fairly conclusively that the puck did _not_ cross the goal line at any time anyway. Somebody screwed up.
I am involve in a Distant Learning project and am in need of Jpeg and Mpeg encode/decode source and object code. This is a NOT-FOR PROFIT project that once completed I hope to release to other educational and institutional learning centers. This project requires that TRUE photographic images be sent over plain telephone lines. In addition if there is a REAL Good GUI lib with 3D objects and all types of menu classes that can be use at both end of the transaction (Server and Terminal End) I would like to hear about it. We recently posted an RFD announcing the OTG (Open Telematic Group) that will concern itself with the developement of such application and that it would incorporate NAPLPS, JPEG, MPEG, Voice, IVR, FAX Sprites, Animation(fli, flc, etc...). At present only DOS and UNIX environment is being worked on and it our hope that we can generate enough interest where all the major platform can be accomodated via a plaform independent API/TOOLKIT/SDK We are of the mind that it is about time that such project and group be form to deal with these issues. We want to setup a repository where these files may be access such as Simte20 and start putting together a OTG FAQ. If you have some or any information that in your opinion would be of interest to the OTG community and you like to see included in our first FAQ please send it email to the address below. Thanks in Advance Ed P.O. box 95901 Atlanta Ga. 30347-0901 (404)985-1198 zyxel 14.4 epimntl@world.std.com ed.pimentel@gisatl.fidonet.org
I've been using the Build59 drivers on a GW2K 4DX2-66V for several weeks with no problems. I'm running Windows in 1024x758 and all software I've run has worked fine. This includes many games and the CD-based multi-media encyclopedia, on which the full-motion video works fine. I'd recommend you give them a try. -- John
I think I should also point out that the mystical DES engines are known plaintext engines (unless you add a ton of really smart hardware?) Assume the ton of smart hardware. It doesn't really have to be that smart.
On Palm Sunday at our parish, we were "invited" to take the role of Jesus in the Passion. I declined to participate. Last year at the liturgy meeting I pointed out how we crucify Christ by our sins, so therefore it is appropriate that we retain the role of the crowd, but to no avail. As a member of a liturgy committee, I can tell you that the problem is certain people dominating, who want to try out all kinds of innovations. The priests don't seem even to _want_ to make any decisions of their own in many cases. I guess it's easier to "try something new" than it is to refuse to allow it. At our parish on Holy Thursday, instead of the priests washing feet ("Who wants to get around people's feet," according to one of our priests) the congregation was "invited" to come up and help wash one another's hands. The symbolism of this action distressed me, and again I refused to participate. I thought that if we were to have to come up with rubrics for this liturgical action (i.e. "Body of Christ" -- "Amen" for receiving Communion), that they could be "I am not responsible for the blood of this man." Also for part of the Eucharistic Prayer ("Blessed are You, God of all creation...") was substituted some text read by a lay couple. The priest certainly should not have given this part of the Mass over to others, and I was so disturbed that I declined to receive Communion that night (we aren't required to anyway -- I instead offered up prayers for our priests and parish). The quality of the Mass has not changed. Again, if it were to be celebrated according to the rubrics set down by the Church, it would still be "liturgically" beautiful. The problem comes about from people trying to be "creative" who are not. I think the answer to your question on participation could be that given by Father Peter Stravinskas in answer to the question posed by the title of Thomas Day's _Why Catholics Can't Sing_. "They don't want to" because of all this nonsense. By the way, for any non-Catholics reading this, the problem does not reflect bad liturgy by the Catholic Church, but by those who are disobedient to the Church in changing it on their own "authority."
Size of armies, duration, numbers of casualties both absolute and as a percentage of those involved, geographical area and numbers of countries too, are all measures of size. In this case I'd say the relevant statistic would be the number of combatants (total troops) compared to total casualties from among the total civilian population in the affected geographical area. Vietnam and Korea might make good comparisons. Western news in general, but in particular the American "mass media": CBS, NBC, ABC, etc. The general tone of the news during the whole war was one of "those poor, poor Iraqis" along with "look how precisely this cruise missile blew this building to bits". I agree. Perhaps so. And maybe the atomic bomb was a mistake too. But that's easy to say from our "enlightened" viewpoint here in the 90's, right? Back then, it was *all-out* war, and Germany and Japan had to be squashed. After all, a million or more British had already died, hundreds of thousands of French, a couple hundread thousand or so Americans, and millions of Russians, not to mention a few million Jews, Poles, and other people of slavic descent in German concentration camps. All things considered, the fire-bombings and the atomic bomb were essential (and therefore justified) in bringing the war to a quick end to avoid even greater allied losses. I, for one, don't regret it. Sure. And it's the people who suffer because of them. All the more reason to depose these "entrenched political rulers operating in their own selfish interests"! Or do you mean that this applies to the allies as well?? I make no claim or effort to justify the misguided foreign policy of the West before the war. It is evident that the West, especially America, misjudged Hussein drastically. But once Hussein invaded Kuwait and threatened to militarily corner a significant portion of the world's oil supply, he had to be stopped. Sure the war could have been prevented by judicious and concerted effort on the part of the West before Hussein invaded Kuwait, but it is still *Hussein* who is responsible for his decision to invade. And once he did so, a strong response from the West was required. Well, it's not very "loving" to allow a Hussein or a Hitler to gobble up nearby countries and keep them. Or to allow them to continue with mass slaughter of certain peoples under their dominion. So, I'd have to say yes, stopping Hussein was the most "loving" thing to do for the most people involved once he set his mind on military conquest. I mentioned it. If we hadn't intervened, allowing Hussein to keep Kuwait, then it would have been appeasement. It is precisely the lessons the world learned in WW2 that motivated the Western alliance to war. Letting Hitler take Austria and Czechoslavkia did not stop WW2 from happening, and letting Hussein keep Kuwait would not have stopped an eventual Gulf War to protect Saudi Arabia. Sure. What was truly unfortunate was that they followed Hitler in his grandiose quest for a "Thousand Year Reich". The consequences stemmed from that. What should I say about them? Anything in particular? So? It was the *policemen* on trial not Rodney King!! And under American law they deserved a jury of *their* peers! If there had been black officers involved, I'm sure their would have been black jurors too. This point (of allegedly racial motivations) is really shallow. So? It's "hard to imagine"? So when has Argument from Incredulity gained acceptance from the revered author of "Constructing a Logical Argument"? Can we expect another revision soon?? :) (Just kidding.) I have to admit that I wonder this too. But *neither* the prosecution nor the defense is talking. So one cannot conclude either way due to the silence of the principals. OK. It certainly seemed to me that there was excessive force involved. And frankly, the original "not guilty" verdict baffled me too. But then I learned that the prosecution in the first case did not try to convict on a charge of excessive force or simple assault which they probably would have won, they tried to get a conviction on a charge of aggravated assault with intent to inflict serious bodily harm. A charge, which news commentators said, was akin to attempted murder under California law. Based on what the prosecution was asking for, it's evident that the first jury decided that the officers were "not guilty". Note, not "not guilty" of doing wrong, but "not guilty" of aggravated assault with the *intent* of inflicting serious bodily harm. The seeds of the prosecutions defeat were in their own overconfidence in obtaining a verdict such that they went for the most extreme charge they could. If the facts as the news commentators presented them are true, then I feel the "not guilty" verdict was a reasonable one. Thanks mathew, I like the quote. Pretty funny actually. (I'm a Monty Python fan, you know. Kind of seems in that vein.) Of course, oversimplifying any moral argument can make it seem contradictory. But then, you know that already. Regards,
That is in fact the current version (it only came out in December). My test movie was created at 320*240 resolution, it wasn't being scaled up. Scaling was a very CPU-intensive operation with the original QuickTime (1.0); the current version has optimizations for ratios like 4:1 (160*120 -> 320*240), but even so, I'm prepared to believe that the performance isn't as good as with playing back an actual 320*240 movie. I haven't done any numerical measurements for scaled playback.
The idea of the U.S, or any other nation, taking action, i.e., military intervention, in Bosnia has not been well thought out by those who advocate such action. After the belligerants are subdued, it would require an occupation force for one or two generations. If you will stop and think about it, you will realize that these people have never forgotten a single slight or injury, they have imbibed hatred with their mother's milk. If we stop the fighting, seize and destroy all weapons, they will simply go back to killing each other with clubs. And the price for this futility will be the lives of the young men and women we send there to die. A price I am unwilling to even consider. There is no valid comparison to the Holocaust. All of the Jewish people that I have known as friends were not brought up to hate. To be wary of others, most certainly, but not to hate. And except for the Warsaw uprising, they were unarmed (and even in Warsaw badly out-gunned). It is very easy to speak of muscle when they are someone else's muscles. Suppose we do this thing, what will you tell the parents, wives, children, lovers of those we are sending to die? That they gave their lives in some noble cause? Noble cause, separating some mad dogs who will turn on them. Well, I will offer you some muscle. Suppose we tell them that they have one week (this will give foreign nationals time to leave) to cease their bloodshed. At the end of that week, bring in the Tomahawk firing ships and destroy Belgrade as they destroyed the Bosnian cities. Perhaps when some of their cities are reduced to rubble they will have a sudden attack of brains. Send in missiles by all means, but do not send in troops. By all means lift the embargo. Which killers? Do you honestly believe they are all on one side?
Hi, I have a few enquiries about PC's and compatibles in general.. Some software others hardware orientated.. (Probably the wrong newsgroup .... as everyone claims..) Anyway.. 1) Does any one happen to have the board jumper details for a Trident 8900 SVGA graphics card (1MB) or even what the dip switches do on the end.. Mine already works fine (albeit slow) and after having blown up a monitor I found out which switch controlled the interlace/non interlace facility.. But I'm curious as to why there are 8 dip switches on the card with apparantly little use.. 2) Secondly, does anyone know why Commodore had to be so crazed in their design of the PC-40 motherboard with respect to the RAM.. (IE 512 + 512 or 640 +0K) ?? 3) Can anyone supply pin details for the expansion ports for a pc (8 or 16 bit ) .. or even a sample circuit to cause an irq when a button is pressed... (Yeah I know its a piece of cake.. I'm lazy 8) 4) Software wise.. Anyone care to divulge some tips on accessing expanded RAM on a PC (from a program written in Turbo C++).... For instance, using farcoreleft() and coreleft() return only memory available from the base 640K regardless of combinations of EMM386 etc etc... What I want is to be able to use the RAM above and beyond the 1MB boundary... I'm not certain whether farmalloc / new actually uses it anyway but I'll suspect not .. 5) Also.. what half brained wit created DOS so as not to be re-entrant?????? As a follow on, does anyone have any comments about the use of DOS calls 0 to 0C from within a DOS interrupt? Ie will changing the stack size on entry be of use.. Two articles I've read on the subject have given conflicting views... Does anyone have any views on writing direct to screen memory in terms of portability?
I got a harddisk shipped with an IDE specification but not the SCSI spec. Would someone tell me how to set the jumper on the harddrive? Thanks. Please email response.
Mercedes-Benz announced yesterday its plans to begin building sport-utility vehicles in the US by 1997. They are targeted at the Jeep Grand Cherokee et al. and will reportedly sell for less than $30,000. Did anyone see a picture? Is it the G-wagon (Gelaendewagen) currently available in Europe (and in the US by grey-market) or is it an entirely new vehicle? Any details would be appreciated.
And all this time I thought it was the US & Britian invading Normandy, the constant, round the clock bombing, and the fact that the Germans were fighting on two fronts. How silly of me. :) This is not to devalue the actions of the resistance movements, but resistance movements did not defeat the Nazis. Israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave when the Lebanese government shows that it can prevent attacks on Israel, and when the Syrians agree to leave. The Lebanese have not tried diplomacy for very long, or maybe they're not capable of getting rid of the Syrians and Iranians who occupy their land. If they closed down the Hezbolah, and negotiated a withdrawl of Syrian forces, Israel would be happy to leave. Adam Adam Shostack adam@das.harvard.edu
Since one is also unlikely to get "the truth" from either Arab or Palestinian news outlets, where do we go to "understand", to learn? Is one form of propoganda more reliable than another? The only way to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer's "political agenda", whether it is "on" or "against" our *side*. Tim
I deleted much of the following article in order to discuss the specific issue of whether it is acceptable to divorce. I have thought about the implications, and it is scary. We have a whole generation of families broken up because some men have decided that is is okay to leave their wives and children for the thrill of a younger, more attractive woman. If we accept that it is legitimate for Jane to have divorced, how can we not accept anyone's decision to divorce because he has found someone with whom he can have a more "deep, committed relationship." Marriage is not a state of being, it is a mutual journey in life. Love is not a passive feeling, it must be actively willed. Is it acceptable for an older executive to dump his wife of many years who stayed home to care for the children because he can't be happy sexually unless he is with a beautiful young blonde? The real solution for both in the couple to make a renewed effort. Hold fast to the faith. Has not the Lord repeatedly compared His relation to His people as a faithful and enduring husband? We learn something very deep and very mystical when we marry and remain faithful through times of trial. My spouse has a brain tumor that has left her partially paralyzed. If it were to resume growing (it is in remission, thanks be to God!) then perhaps the time would come when we could not have sexual relations. That's life...the Lord would certainly not give me permission to seek someone else to satisfy my "needs." The idea that it is alright to divorce if a couple "grows apart" seems to me to lead to such a monstrous destruction of the meaning of marriage that I feel we must make every effort to avoid any hint of compromise. We have become so petty and small-minded that some husbands are threatening to divorce their wives unless the wives lose weight!
[why are atheists atheists/ believes it could be the result of "brokenness"] i agree -- if you are going to find out anything from people who don't share your beliefs, do not attack them or condescend to them and hope to get a neutral picture of them. come to them with an open mind. well, you do believe in something, as i see it, even if it is a sort of "anti-belief" (no negative connotation meant; i mean simply that you believe that God _does not_ exist). christians can also feel that sense of "difference", however, when they are associated with "those weird televangelists who always talk about satan". if you'll excuse the cliched sound of this, everyone has to deal with his/ her differences from other people. i can understand how being an atheist could be hard for you; being a christian is sometimes hard for me. you should not have to repress how you feel -- you should be able to discuss it without fear. i think there are admirable things to learn from any belief, which can enrich your own -- by asking myself the questions that atheists may ask me, i can learn the answers and become stronger in my faith. if my faith can't support knowing the answers to those questions, it is weak and untrue. in some way the pressures were different, of course, because you "chose" your beliefs -- or are you saying that they were not your choice, but born of necessity? [please, no flames about whether or not gay people "choose" their lifestyle -- that's elsewhere in this newsgroup] i'm not sure i understand this sentence -- could you explain? [moderator points out that many/ most atheists aren't "hostile", they just cease believiing in xiantiy/ religion] ouch, yes. part of being a christian is accepting _everyone_ with an open heart -- including people of "our own camp" with whom we completely disagree. by the same token, i believe that accusation and suspicion are not the best way to reach out to those not of our faith, nor is it effective to try to browbeat people into accepting our religion. i have a different idea of mission: be what i am, a christian who is happy in her faith, and if others see that and want to know about either the happiness or the religion, i'll share what i know without pressure and let them make their own decisions. at some point you just have to agree to disagree -- acceptance of diversity, not uniformity, is the way to sow peace.... vera noyes
The si has a single expansion slot, that can be either PDS or Nubus, but not both together. The card lies parallel to and above the motherboard & HD and requires an adaptor slot to do this. There are Nubus and PDS adaptort cards. Thus, what kind of slots you have depends on what kind of adapter card you have. With the exception of the Radius rocket, all NuBus cards I know of work in the si. PDS slots and thus cards are Mac specific, thus not all PDS cards work in all Macs.
Were the early Christians weird? Yes! So were their non-Christian contemporaries (the more familiar you are with late Republican Rome or the Pricipate, the weirder those people will seem -- forget the creative filtering done by Renaissance and Eighteenth Century hero worship.) So are modern non-Christians. And Christians. You are pretty weird, yourself, with your rather acid dismissal of Luther and of Protestantism -- and in apparently buying into a simplistic propaganda model about Catholicism *not* being faddish. Sure, it's so large that global fads take longer cycles than they do in smaller denominations (and local ones are not usually visible unless you do a lot of traveling to exotic lands :-)). May I recom- mend, as a salutary antidote to this nonsense Philippe Aries' book _The Hour of our Death_, a longitudinal study of death customs in Western [specifically Catholic] Christendom? And it won't help to escape into the obscurity of the first Christian century. Paul was pretty weird, too; as were Peter and the others in the (apparently quite weird) circle around Jesus. What I think you might find helpful is a bit more charity -- try to understand these weirdos and nutcases with the same respect and love you would expect others to show YOUR notions. We *are* commanded to love one another, after all. And Brown's book is, in fact, a heroic attempt to SEE the groupings he talks about as motivated in love and the gospel and their social contexts. (If anything, Brown is *too* heroic here -- he manages to overstrain himself at times :-)) I don't suggest that we *follow* any of these old cult paths -- and it raises hard questions from the skeptic inside me that so much of early Christianity *was* like the weird (Christian and non-Christian) cults we see today. To that extent, I think you raise a serious problem (and perhaps your phrasing is implicitly self-deprecatory and ironic.) But the first principle for *answering* these questions is respect and love for those we do not understand. And it helps to *work* at under- standing (as long as we do not get overwhelmed by revulsion and begin to withdraw our respect for them as people.) I would advise, in other words, MORE historical reading (Brown's other books are also good, most especially his bio. of Augustine; also try Robin Lane Fox's _Christians and Pagans_, maybe the Paul Veyne ed. _History of Private Life_, some of Foucault's books on sexuality in the ancient world ...) Humanity *is* weird -- we have known ONE sane person, and we killed Him. Fortunately for us, this has proved a Comedy rather than a Tragedy. Easter, 1993. (yes; this is a tad early -- our Vigil service here has been moved forward because so many churches in the area have taken to doing their own Vigils, and the seminarians must therefore worship-and-run if they are to do it here and there as well. Think of this as an Anglican fad. :-))
OK. I stand corrected. I guess, then, that the comments about payoffs (i.e., "pork") to Puerto Ricans that others have been making still stands? Now, everybody, how about some opinion on the following related topic: Should the people who are natives of U.S. territories have representation in the U.S. House of Rep's or the U.S. Congress? The U.S. Constitution sets up the House of Representatives to represent each State in proportion to its population, and the Senate to represent each State equally. What should be done with U.S. territories like Puerto Rico? Does anyone have knowledge about how this was handled in the past, such as with the Louisiana Territory or the Northwest Territory? Chris
I will try to answer some of Dorin's questions, even though they were not addressed to me specifically, but I feel that I am a bit concerned by the thread since I am a Southern Lebanese from a village that is often on the receiving end of Israel's bombs. In the first place the death of three soldiers on a patrol in occupied Lebanese terrritory is NOT an act of terrorism or murder. It is disingeneous to compare their death to that of athletes in Munich or any other act of terrorism or mrder. This exercise is aimed solely at diverting the issue and is far from the truth. It seems to me, Dorin, that, you are so remote and ignorant of the problem on the ground that your comments can only be charactrized as irrelevant, and heavily colored by the preconceptions and misinformation. I will try to paint the most accurate picture I can of what the situation really is in South Lebanon. I am. I was back in my home village this last summer. For your information we are PEOPLE, not a bunch of indiscriminate terrorists. Most of the people in my village are regular inhabitants that go about their daily business, some work in the fields, some own small shops, others are older men that go to the coffe shop and drink coffee. Is that so hard to imagine ???? It is NOT a "terrorist camp" as you and the Israelis like to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer in the streets, women preparing lunch, men playing cards, etc..... SOME young men, usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of the Lebanese resistance. Even the inhabitants of the village do not know who these are, they are secretive about it, but most people often suspect who they are and what they are up to. These young men are supported financially by Iran most of the time. They sneak arms and ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps for Israeli patrols. Every time an Israeli soldier is killed or injured by these traps, Israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians. Once they are back they announce that they bombed a "terrorist hideout" where an 8 year old girl just happened to be. We are now accustomed to Israeli tactics, and we figure that this is the Israeli way of telling us that "if you're gonna hurt our soldiers you're gonna pay the price". We accept this as a price we have to pay to free our land, Israel knows very well that it is not really hurting the resistance that much militarily with these strikes, but rather just keeping the pressure on the villagers to demand from their young men to stop attacking Israeli soldiers since these attacks are taking a heavy toll on the lives of the civilian villagers. Israel's retalliation policy is cold hearted, but a reality that we have come to accept and deal with, the Lebanese Resistance on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on OCCUPYING ISRAELI SOLDIERS until they withdraw, this is the only real leverage that they have to force Israel to withdraw. The people of South Lebanon are occupied, or shelled by Israel on a regular basis. We do not want to be occupied. If Israel insists that the so called "Security Zone" is necessary for the protection of Northern Israel, than it will have to pay the price of its occupation with the blood of its soldiers. If Israel is interested in peace, than it should withdraw from OUR land. We are not asking for the establishment of a Lebanese occupied zone in northern Israel to protect our villages that are attacked on a regular basis by Israel, so the best policy seems to be the removal of Israeli occupation and the establishment of peace keeping troops along the border. I have written before on this very newsgroup, that the only real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace settlement whereby Israel withdraws to its own borders and peace keeping troops are stationed along the border to insure no one on either side of the border is shelled. This is the only realistic solution, it is time for Israel to realize that the concept of a "buffer zone" aimed at protecting its northern cities has failed. In fact it has caused much more Israeli deaths than the occasional shelling of Northern Israel would have resulted in. If Israel really wants to save some Israeli lives it would withdraw unilaterally from the so-called "Security Zone" before the conclusion of the peace talks. Such a move would save Israeli lives, advance peace efforts, give Israel a great moral lift, better Israel's public image abroad and give it an edge in the peace negociations since Israel can rightly claim that it is genuinely interested in peace and has already offered some important concessions. Along with such a withdrawal Israel could demand that Hizbollah be disarmed by the Lebanese government and warn that it will not accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a shelling occurs than it will consider re-taking the buffer zone and will hold the Lebanese and Syrian government responsible for it. There seems to be very little incentive for the Syrian and Lebanese goovernment to allow Hizbollah to bomb Israel proper under such circumstances, and now the Lebanese government has proven that it is capable of controlling and disarming all militias as they did in all other parts of Lebanon. I agree, only in the case of the Isareli soldiers their killing CANNOT be qualified as murder, no matter what you say. I have the feeling that you may be able yourself to make Yes, we have no quarrel with Jews, or Israeli civilians. The real problem is with OCCUPYING Israeli soldiers and those brave Israeli pilots that bomb our civilian villages every time an occupying soldier is attacked.
A silly question: I frequently edit small files and need to make copies of them on several floppy diskettes of the same size and format, but my computer is only equipped with one 3.5" HD drive and one 5.25" HD drive; can't I do the copying without swapping files temporarily to my hard disk (which is 99.9% full) using standard MSDOS 5.0 commands? I know diskcopy a: a: works but for small selections of files, xcopy a:*.txt a: does not! Maybe I'll have to write my own file copy command in C, but the idea does not amuse me. Thanks for your help.
CNN just claimed he bought 104 "semi-automatic assault rifles". And they say Koresh wasn't god-like... He managed to buy or build a collection of fully-automatic semi-automatic rifles... Quite a feat, I would say. ;-) They're still making charges of "sexual abuse" and such, or course. Nobody seems to have noticed that the Treasury department has nothing to do with sex crimes. Or maybe the feds have recently instituted a TAX on sex crimes... Yeah, that's why the BATF was there, looking for unregistered *guns* ("this is my weapon, this is my gun, this is for fighting, this is for..."). I also heard that they're claiming to be cautious because of Koresh's "heated ammunition stockpile". I seem to recall that smokeless powder tends to decompose at even moderate temperatures. I would be rather surprised, after a fire of that nature, if *any* of his "stockpile" is unexploded, or unburned. I seem to recall that aluminum powder is a common component of fireworks... The folks on rec.pyro could probably tell you. I think *anything* is legal if you have the proper license. If he had a "curios and relics" permit, I believe he could legally own handgrenades to go with his launcher. -- Charles Scripter * cescript@phy.mtu.edu Dept of Physics, Michigan Tech, Houghton, MI 49931
Car Audio Products for Sale... Kicker (Stillwater Designs) - SS10x2: 2 10" Kickers in a sealed box. The box is manufactured direct from Kicker. (Instructions). *******Asking $175 + Shipping Kicker (Stillwater Designs) - 2 Kicker 12" Subwoofers. (Instructions). *******Asking $175 + Shipping (Sold as a pair only!) Kenwood KAC923 Amp - 220 Watts X 2. 2 ohm stable (Box & Instruction Included). *******Asking $375 + Shipping Im selling the above item for a friend without Internet access... You can either E-Mail me or call him (Mike Metalios) at (410)665-5773.
The answer is obvious: ZX-11 D.
Here is a press release from the White House. President Clinton's Remarks On Waco With Q/A To: National Desk Contact: White House Office of the Press Secretary, 202-456-2100 WASHINGTON, April 20 /U.S. Newswire/ -- Following are remarks by President Clinton in a question and answer session with the press (Part 2 of 2): Go ahead, Sarah. Q There are two questions I want to ask you. The first is, I think that they knew very well that the children did not have gas masks while the adults did, so the children had no chance because this gas was very -- she said it was not lethal, but it was very dangerous to the children and they could not have survived without gas masks. And on February 28th -- let's go back -- didn't those people have a right to practice their religion? THE PRESIDENT: They were not just practicing their religion, they were -- the Treasury Department believed that they had violated federal laws, any number of them. Q What federal laws -- THE PRESIDENT: Let me go back and answer -- I can't answer the question about the gas masks, except to tell you that the whole purpose of using the tear gas was that it had been tested; they were convinced that it wouldn't kill either a child or an adult but it would force anybody that breathed it to run outside. And one of the things that I've heard -- I don't want to get into the details of this because I don't know -- but one of the things that they were speculating about today was that the wind was blowing so fast that the windows might have been opened and some of the gas might have escaped and that may be why it didn't have the desired effect. They also knew, Sarah, that there was an underground compound -- a bus buried underground where the children could be sent. And they were -- I think they were hoping very much that if the children were not released immediately outside that the humane thing would be done and that the children would be sent someplace where they could be protected. In terms of the gas masks themselves, I learned yesterday -- I did not ask this fact question before -- that the gas was supposed to stay active in the compound longer than the gas masks themselves were to work. So that it was thought that even if they all had gas masks, that eventually the gas would force them out in a nonviolent, nonshooting circumstance. MS. MYERS: Last question. Q Mr. President, why are you still saying that -- Q Could you tell us whether or not you ever asked Janet Reno about the possibility of a mass suicide? And when you learned about the actual fire and explosion what went through your mind during those horrendous moments? THE PRESIDENT: What I asked Janet Reno is if they had considered all the worse things that could happen. And she said -- and, of course, the whole issue of suicide had been raised in the public -- he had -- that had been debated anyway. And she said that the people who were most knowledgeable about these kinds of issues concluded that there was no greater risk of that now than there would be tomorrow or the next day or the day after that or at anytime in the future. That was the judgment they made. Whether they were right or wrong, of course, we will never know. What happened when I saw the fire, when I saw the building burning? I was sick. I felt terrible. And my immediate concern was whether the children had gotten out and whether they were escaping or whether they were inside, trying to burn themselves up. That's the first thing I wanted to know. Thank you. Q Mr. President, why are you still saying it was a Janet Reno decision? Isn't it, in the end, your decision? THE PRESIDENT: Well, what I'm saying is that I didn't have a four- or five-hour, detailed briefing from the FBI. I didn't go over every strategic part of it. It is a decision for which I take responsibility. I'm the President of the United States and I signed off on the general decision and giving her the authority to make the last call. When I talked to her on Sunday, some time had elapsed. She might have made a decision to change her mind. I said, if you decide to go forward with this tomorrow, I will support you. And I do support her. She is not ultimately responsible to the American people; I am. But I think she has conducted her duties in an appropriate fashion and she has dealt with this situation I think as well as she could have. Thank you. (Applause.)
I have two 4 meg SIMMS that I am trying to sell. I had them in my LC. I would like to get $100 for each one. They are only three months old and have a lifetime warrenty. They are 80ns simms. I will also consider other reasonable offers. Please E-Mail me. Dave
hello testing
* The Government * Liberals * BATF, FBI, DEA, etc. (see #1) Well... contributions == taxes abortion == elimination of fetal tissue Clinton == president faggot == spouse It could happen... Hydrogen Bomb, perhaps. Yep. Yep.
: The cops/feds do *not* need to be able to get hold of your private key to : listen in to cellular conversations. Encryption is not end-to-end, but : cellphone to base-station - it *has* to be this way so that cellular users : and fixed installations can talk to each other. For cellular to cellular : calls, the transmission is decrypted at the base-station, passed to another : base-station and re-encrypted. The cops/feds can listen to the unscrambled : call *provided* they get a warrant to tap into the cellular provider's : equipment. The only reason for wanting a crackable system is so they can : listen without having to obtain a warrant. : But, maybe the Clipper system is secure, and they really do need a warrant : to get the key out of escrow before they can listen in using a scanner (see : above - they don't *have* to go down this route anyway). I have my doubts, : but even if true once they have the key they will *never* again need a : warrant to tap into that particular phone whenever they want. `Well, Judge, : it appears he wasn't a drug-dealer after all, so naturally we'll stop : listening in'... That was true for the UK Paul, but I'm fairly sure they're talking about building end-to-end encryption phones out of this chip. It's *not* for cellular (though it certainly could be used there in the way you suggest)
]I wrote the slash two blues for a bit of humor which seems to be lacking ]in the MOA Owners News, when most of the stuff is "I rode the the first ]day, I saw that, I rode there the second day, I saw this" I admit it was a surprise to find something interesting to read in the most boring and worthless mag of all the ones I get. ]any body out there know were the sense if humor went in people? ]I though I still had mine, but I dunno... I think most people see your intended humor, I do, I liked the article. you seem to forget that you've stepped into the political arena. as well intentioned as you may intend something you're walking through a china store carrying that /2 on your head. everything you say or do says something about how you would represent the membership on any given day. you don't have to look far in american politics to see what a few light hearted jokes about one segment of the population can do to someone in the limelight. OBMoto: I did manage to squeak in a reference to a /2 ;-)
Two shots at it: (1) Check the tires again - if you can see the wear bars, you're down to problem area (and some tires pass a penny test between the bars - that's no guide at all). Your problem in the wet is call hydroplaning. You may not have enough tread left to channel water out from under the tire - so it goes fishy on you as it lifts off the road. (2) Tires age. In particular, soft tire compounds get harder as you put them thru more heat cycles. Harder compounds don't grip as well as soft ones. Effect is very noticable on tires that get very hot very often, such as in competition, but it hits all tires.
Complete Q700 are best obtained from your dealer or some recent copy of MacWorld or MacUser. My foggy memory suggests that the most relevant comparison factors vis-a-vis a IIci are as follows: 25 MHz 68040 16 Mhz data path (don't recall this for sure, but it's slower than Q 950 style machines for sure). Ethertalk card on-board Audio in/out 4 MB RAM on motherboard 4 SIMM slots 2 NuBus slots. More flexible build-in video than the CI. Uses VRAM. In comparison, a IIci with an accelerator won't give you audio or ethernet or the same video options. With a 68040 accelerator, CPU performance can be comparable but I think it ends up costing more.
Article from as follows
Hello Everyone, I have a Casio TV-470 LCD Color Television for sale. It is in mint condition. Retail is $199 but I'm looking to get about 1/2 of that for it, tops. Highest bidder in a week gets it, assuming the highest bidder is at least $60. TV comes with black case and uses 4 AA batteries. They also sell AC adaptor. It has external jack for phones and external antenna, etc. The picture is very good and it has electronic tuning so you don't have to screw with tuning a picture in, etc. I have the box and all documentation. This has seen less than 3 hours use as I have all but sworn off TV.
$17-20/piece. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I assume you are talking about 1meg X 9 SIMMs, or 1Meg X 9 SIPPs with speed of 70ns? I would take 10K pieces per week if you have that price. (FOB US port). I am not waiting for an offer with that price, I could only dream. tiger
In comp.os.ms-windows.misc you write: you might want to look in windows FAQ for this one, but here is my best explanation. But I can't guarantee that I'm not way off base... The permenant swap file is read/written to by windows by talking directly to the hard disk controller card. The controller card must use the protocal set up by western digital (or something like that). Windows creates a file called spart.par in your windows directory that points to that file. It then uses the physical information about your disk to index to information in that file. compressed disks are actually "logical" disks. These disks have different characteristics than the actual physical disk. Furthermore, the information on the compressed disks must be uncompressed before it is used. (i.e it must go through the decompression program that traps disk reads at the operating system level or the BIOS level). Because of this "inbetween" program, windows cannot use direct methods to read from the "logical" disk. a permenant swap file is only there to "reserve" an area of the disk that windows can use and to block that space from DOS. Windows would theoretically not even have to access the file from DOS to use that disk space. (I don't know if it does or doesn't...but it checks for it somewhere everytime you boot windows.) a temporary swap file is just a normal DOS file that is accessed by windows via DOS and the BIOS. If a disk compression program or other TSR is loaded the file access must go through DOS...TSR'S (disk compression)...and BIOS in order to be access. (i.e. NEVER USE A TEMPORARY SWAP FILE...NEVER) more on permenent swap files... i'm sure everyone who has an uncompressed part of their compressed hard disk has seen the message "you have selected a swap file greater than the suggested size...windows will only use the size suggested...do you wan't to create this swap file anyway" or something like that. well, a friend of mine (ROBERT) called microsoft and asked them what and why. what they said is that windows checks the amount of free disk space and divides that number by 2. Then it checks for the largest contiguous block of free disk space. Windows then suggests the smaller of the two numbers. They also said that under absolutely no circumstances...NONE!...will windows uses a swap file larger than the suggested size. Well...that's what he said! I call bull@#$#. If this is true why does windows report the memory is available to me if it's not going to use it? any takers? James
Nothing unisual. Quote: " Chinese Restaurant Syndrome (CRS): a transient syndrome, associated with arterial dilatation, due to ingestion of monosodium glutamate, which is used liberally in seasoning chinese food; it is characterized by throbbing of the head, lightheadedness, tightness of the jaw, neck and shoulders, and bachache. " End quote. Source: Dorland's Illustrated Medical Dictionary, 27th edition, 1988, W.B. Saunders, p 1632. This was known long ago. Brain produces and uses some MSG naturally, but not in doses it is served at some chinese places. Having said that, i might add, that in MHO, MSG does not enhance flavor enoughf for me to miss it. When I go to chinese places, I order food without MSG. Goos places will do it for you. A prerequisite for such a service would be a waiter, capable of understanding, what you want. Good Luck. am
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----- In message <9304190956.AA10390@pizzabox.demon.co.uk> you write: [...] I'd lost the White House's deathless prose when I posted (that's what happens when you read news at home when you're rat-arsed), but I did have a bunch of follow-ups going on about cellular/cordless comms. The original article has reappeared, so: The President today announced a new initiative that will bring the Federal Government together with industry in a voluntary program to improve the security and privacy of telephone communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law enforcement. Hmm, telephone communications could indeed include end-to-end encryption on ordinary landlines. The initiative will involve the creation of new products to accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure telecommunications networks and wireless communications links. But the next paragraph says telecoms networks and wireless communications links. OK, it's far from clear exactly what Cripple (what an apposite anagram) will be applied to, but the reason Joe Public wants secure comms is to stop people listening in to his cellular or cordless phones (and he wouldn't even be bothered about that were it not for Wingnut and Squidqy's misfortunes). Yes, Cripple *might* be for end-to-end encyption, dropping to clear when the other end doesn't have Cripple. But then a cordless-to-ordinary conversation would be in clear leaving the cordless end just as vulnerable as at present. Nope, I suspect that Cripple will only be used on radio links. OK, it's possible `telecommunications networks' could mean `ordinary phone lines', but I'm betting it means the microwave links used by the telcos. My apologies if I'm wrong, particularly if the turgid Press Release makes it clear that I'm wrong and I missed it, but as far as I can see it was full of obfuscation, and anyone expecting end-to-end encryption is in for a surprise (IMHO). BTW, Graham, I've posted questions to alt.security.pgp and not seen any replies/followups from outside Europe - how about you? Have I made it into everyone's kill file, or is there some problem? - --Paul -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE----- Version: 2.2
[...stiff deleted...] [...stiff deleted...] Speed is a quantifiable measure resulting from a set of methods that will result in the same value measured no matter the reference. A bullet with zero velocity sitting on a table on a train moving 60mph will be moving at a speed of (a) 0mph to someone on the train. (b) 60mph to someone stationary next to the train. The reference frame makes the speed relative. But what's interesting here is that every person on the train will see a stationary bullet. Every person off, a bullet moving 60mph. I know of no train where all the people on it, every time it is filled, will see a moral problem in exactly the same way.
Why not? Horner played 130 games in 1985 and hit 27 HR. Murphy played 162 and hit 37. In 1986 Horner hit 27 in 141 games and Murphy hit 29 in 160 games. (and the Braves lost 96 and 89 games).
I am not sure about the tie breaker rules. However, I think if the Islanders win (Oh God, Please, Please let them win), the Islanders win the series against NJ and advances to third. ******************************************************************************** Of course no one asked me, I always interject my opinions on maters I have no concern over.
Hi. I own an LCIII and I recently heard an interesting rumor. I heard that the LCIII has a built in slot for a PowerPC chip. Is this true? I heard that the slot is not the same as the PDS slot. Is that true?
Be very careful when you plug in a external monitor and a external speaker. Make sure that all the power cords are in the same strip. If you don't you take a chance of having a very bad audio buzz. This is caused be a "ground loop" and the only way of getting rid of this loud buzz is to make sure that you have a common ground. Make sure that all the power cords are going in to the same strip or off the same outlet. This will assure you of a common ground.
They have a few problems. The biggest technical problem is the need to find two satellites going to the same rough orbit for a luanch. They also don't show much interest in commercial launches. There is more money to be made churning out Titan IV's for the government. After all, it isn't every day you find a sucker, er, customer who thinks paying three times the commercial rate for launch services is a good idea! Allen
I'm having trouble receiving News at the moment due to an overloaded News server. I think that I can post out reasonably quickly, though. I'm in a couple of threads at the moment which may be pending replies. If anyone wants a reply from me over something I've posted then I suggest sending an e-mail copy of the point to me so that I can reply by News. This is one way to shut me up!! Cheers, David. --- On religion:
: >: Rate := per capita rate. The UK is more dangerous. : >: Though you may be less likely to be killed by a handgun, the average : >: individual citizen in the UK is twice as likely to be killed : >: by whatever means as the average Swiss. Would you feel any better : >: about being killed by means other than a handgun? I wouldn't. : : >What an absurd argument. Switzerland is one-fifth the size of the : >UK with one-eigth as many people therefore at any given point on : >Swiss soil you are more likely to be crow bait. More importantly, : >you are 4x as likely to be killed by the next stranger approaching : >you on a Swiss street than in the UK. : You are betraying your lack of understanding about RATE versus TOTAL : NUMBER. Rates are expressed, often, as #/100,000 population. : Therefore, if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100,000, the : rate would be 10/100,000. A place that had 50 deaths and a population : of 1,000,000 would hav a rate of 5/100,000. The former has a higher : rate, the latter a higher total. You are less likely to die in the : latter. Simple enuff? For chrissakes, take out your calculator and work out the numbers. Here... I've preformatted them for you to make it easier: handgun homicides/population ---------------------------- Switzerland : 24 / 6,350,000 UK : 8 / 55,670,000 ... and then tell me again how Switzerland is safer with a more liberal handgun law than the UK is without...by RATE or TOTAL NUMBER. Your choice.
Ah, so you finally found a use for that super slo-mo and frame advance other than scrutinizing "Sorority Babes in Heat". Congrats! Trust me, you'd have a helluva time manipulating them. Besides, if you converted the film to video you'd have all kinds of artifacts because of the difference in frame rate (unless you're an expert at doing 3/2 pulldown for a laserdisc company or something). Hey, no fair! What about 'Fettucine' Alfredo Griffin? The guy practically has to pivot the bat around along with his body. Daulton doesn't strike me as all that strange. He's a little bit quiet at the plate but, like Franco, gets the bat through the hitting zone on a level plane. The first time I watched Julio Franco, I didn't think *anyone* could hit like that. Now I marvel at how easy he makes it look; every time he makes contact, it's *solid*. He's got good power to all fields and rarely is he caught not ready for a pitch. I wonder if Phil Plantier had a severe bout with hemorrhoids and had to practice his swing while 'on the throne'? :-) Sure looks like it :-) How 'bout one to add to your list: Travis Fryman? The guy plants his front foot and seems to swing *across* his body. He generates a lot of power, but I keep thinking he could generate even more if he could get a better pivot out of his hips. Well, they're already spoken for (by several people), but .. I'd add Robbie Alomar's name to the list, among others. I really like Dean Palmer's swing, for some twisted reason, as well as Pedro Munoz's swing. A thought about May: It looks like they've taught him to turn on the ball. IMHO, he's going to fall in love with his newfound power and start pulling off the ball to the point that he's going to see *lots* of sinkers/sliders low and away. Unless he adjusts quickly and starts rifling doubles to left and left-center, IMHO you're going to see a good number of weak grounders to the right side of the infield in the next month.
I've got two CD300's... The first one i ordered Jan 15, and I received it Feb. 20. The second one I ordered Jan 20th, and I just got it April 2nd or so. Anyway, they both come with 10 misc. CDROMs... Things like a "Intro to Nautilis", a sample CD of Kodak pictures, "From Alice to Ocean" (a story of a woman who treked across Austrailia), 3 discs from apple, a games disc, an applications disc, and a "titles" disc (haven't checked most of these out yet). Also some "Cinderella" thing for kids, a disc of Mozart something-or-others, etc. etc. etc. If someone's super interested, I'll make a list of the exact titles and post them. They are all in the category of "Interesting, but probably fairly useless...". It was rumored that the earliest units shipped with SOME encyclocpedia (it may have), but neither of my drives had that.
Archive-name: space/astronaut Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:02 $ HOW TO BECOME AN ASTRONAUT First the short form, authored by Henry Spencer, then an official NASA announcement. Q. How do I become an astronaut? A. We will assume you mean a NASA astronaut, since it's probably impossible for a non-Russian to get into the cosmonaut corps (paying passengers are not professional cosmonauts), and the other nations have so few astronauts (and fly even fewer) that you're better off hoping to win a lottery. Becoming a shuttle pilot requires lots of fast-jet experience, which means a military flying career; forget that unless you want to do it anyway. So you want to become a shuttle "mission specialist". If you aren't a US citizen, become one; that is a must. After that, the crucial thing to remember is that the demand for such jobs vastly exceeds the supply. NASA's problem is not finding qualified people, but thinning the lineup down to manageable length. It is not enough to be qualified; you must avoid being *dis*qualified for any reason, many of them in principle quite irrelevant to the job. Get a Ph.D. Specialize in something that involves getting your hands dirty with equipment, not just paper and pencil. Forget computer programming entirely; it will be done from the ground for the fore- seeable future. Degree(s) in one field plus work experience in another seems to be a frequent winner. Be in good physical condition, with good eyesight. (DO NOT get a radial keratomy or similar hack to improve your vision; nobody knows what sudden pressure changes would do to RKed eyes, and long-term effects are poorly understood. For that matter, avoid any other significant medical unknowns.) If you can pass a jet-pilot physical, you should be okay; if you can't, your chances are poor. Practise public speaking, and be conservative and conformist in appearance and actions; you've got a tough selling job ahead, trying to convince a cautious, conservative selection committee that you are better than hundreds of other applicants. (And, also, that you will be a credit to NASA after you are hired: public relations is a significant part of the job, and NASA's image is very prim and proper.) The image you want is squeaky-clean workaholic yuppie. Remember also that you will need a security clearance at some point, and Security considers everybody guilty until proven innocent. Keep your nose clean. Get a pilot's license and make flying your number one hobby; experienced pilots are known to be favored even for non-pilot jobs. Work for NASA; of 45 astronauts selected between 1984 and 1988, 43 were military or NASA employees, and the remaining two were a NASA consultant and Mae Jemison (the first black female astronaut). If you apply from outside NASA and miss, but they offer you a job at NASA, ***TAKE IT***; sometimes in the past this has meant "you do look interesting but we want to know you a bit better first". Think space: they want highly motivated people, so lose no chance to demonstrate motivation. Keep trying. Many astronauts didn't make it the first time. NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center Houston, Texas Announcement for Mission Specialist and Pilot Astronaut Candidates ================================================================== Astronaut Candidate Program --------------------------- The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has a need for Pilot Astronaut Candidates and Mission Specialist Astronaut Candidates to support the Space Shuttle Program. NASA is now accepting on a continuous basis and plans to select astronaut candidates as needed. Persons from both the civilian sector and the military services will be considered. All positions are located at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, and will involved a 1-year training and evaluation program. Space Shuttle Program Description --------------------------------- The numerous successful flights of the Space Shuttle have demonstrated that operation and experimental investigations in space are becoming routine. The Space Shuttle Orbiter is launched into, and maneuvers in the Earth orbit performing missions lastling up to 30 days. It then returns to earth and is ready for another flight with payloads and flight crew. The Orbiter performs a variety of orbital missions including deployment and retrieval of satellites, service of existing satellites, operation of specialized laboratories (astronomy, earth sciences, materials processing, manufacturing), and other operations. These missions will eventually include the development and servicing of a permanent space station. The Orbiter also provides a staging capability for using higher orbits than can be achieved by the Orbiter itself. Users of the Space Shuttle's capabilities are both domestic and foreign and include government agencies and private industries. The crew normally consists of five people - the commander, the pilot, and three mission specialists. On occasion additional crew members are assigned. The commander, pilot, and mission specialists are NASA astronauts. Pilot Astronaut Pilot astronauts server as both Space Shuttle commanders and pilots. During flight the commander has onboard responsibility for the vehicle, crew, mission success and safety in flight. The pilot assists the commander in controlling and operating the vehicle. In addition, the pilot may assist in the deployment and retrieval of satellites utilizing the remote manipulator system, in extra-vehicular activities, and other payload operations. Mission Specialist Astronaut Mission specialist astronauts, working with the commander and pilot, have overall responsibility for the coordination of Shuttle operations in the areas of crew activity planning, consumables usage, and experiment and payload operations. Mission specialists are required to have a detailed knowledge of Shuttle systems, as well as detailed knowledge of the operational characteristics, mission requirements and objectives, and supporting systems and equipment for each of the experiments to be conducted on their assigned missions. Mission specialists will perform extra-vehicular activities, payload handling using the remote manipulator system, and perform or assist in specific experimental operations. Astronaut Candidate Program =========================== Basic Qualification Requirements -------------------------------- Applicants MUST meet the following minimum requirements prior to submitting an application. Mission Specialist Astronaut Candidate: 1. Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in engineering, biological science, physical science or mathematics. Degree must be followed by at least three years of related progressively responsible, professional experience. An advanced degree is desirable and may be substituted for part or all of the experience requirement (master's degree = 1 year, doctoral degree = 3 years). Quality of academic preparation is important. 2. Ability to pass a NASA class II space physical, which is similar to a civilian or military class II flight physical and includes the following specific standards: Distant visual acuity: 20/150 or better uncorrected, correctable to 20/20, each eye. Blood pressure: 140/90 measured in sitting position. 3. Height between 58.5 and 76 inches. Pilot Astronaut Candidate: 1. Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in engineering, biological science, physical science or mathematics. Degree must be followed by at least three years of related progressively responsible, professional experience. An advanced degree is desirable. Quality of academic preparation is important. 2. At least 1000 hours pilot-in-command time in jet aircraft. Flight test experience highly desirable. 3. Ability to pass a NASA Class I space physical which is similar to a military or civilian Class I flight physical and includes the following specific standards: Distant visual acuity: 20/50 or better uncorrected correctable to 20/20, each eye. Blood pressure: 140/90 measured in sitting position. 4. Height between 64 and 76 inches. Citizenship Requirements Applications for the Astronaut Candidate Program must be citizens of the United States. Note on Academic Requirements Applicants for the Astronaut Candidate Program must meet the basic education requirements for NASA engineering and scientific positions -- specifically: successful completion of standard professional curriculum in an accredited college or university leading to at least a bachelor's degree with major study in an appropriate field of engineering, biological science, physical science, or mathematics. The following degree fields, while related to engineering and the sciences, are not considered qualifying: - Degrees in technology (Engineering Technology, Aviation Technology, Medical Technology, etc.) - Degrees in Psychology (except for Clinical Psychology, Physiological Psychology, or Experimental Psychology which are qualifying). - Degrees in Nursing. - Degrees in social sciences (Geography, Anthropology, Archaeology, etc.) - Degrees in Aviation, Aviation Management or similar fields. Application Procedures ---------------------- Civilian The application package may be obtained by writing to: NASA Johnson Space Center Astronaut Selection Office ATTN: AHX Houston, TX 77058 Civilian applications will be accepted on a continuous basis. When NASA decides to select additional astronaut candidates, consideration will be given only to those applications on hand on the date of decision is made. Applications received after that date will be retained and considered for the next selection. Applicants will be notified annually of the opportunity to update their applications and to indicate continued interest in being considered for the program. Those applicants who do not update their applications annually will be dropped from consideration, and their applications will not be retained. After the preliminary screening of applications, additional information may be requested for some applicants, and person listed on the application as supervisors and references may be contacted. Active Duty Military Active duty military personnel must submit applications to their respective military service and not directly to NASA. Application procedures will be disseminated by each service. Selection --------- Personal interviews and thorough medical evaluations will be required for both civilian and military applicants under final consideration. Once final selections have been made, all applicants who were considered will be notified of the outcome of the process. Selection rosters established through this process may be used for the selection of additional candidates during a one year period following their establishment. General Program Requirements Selected applicants will be designated Astronaut Candidates and will be assigned to the Astronaut Office at the Johnson Space Center, Houston, Texas. The astronaut candidates will undergo a 1 year training and evaluation period during which time they will be assigned technical or scientific responsibilities allowing them to contribute substantially to ongoing programs. They will also participate in the basic astronaut training program which is designed to develop the knowledge and skills required for formal mission training upon selection for a flight. Pilot astronaut candidates will maintain proficiency in NASA aircraft during their candidate period. Applicants should be aware that selection as an astronaut candidate does not insure selection as an astronaut. Final selection as an astronaut will depend on satisfactory completion of the 1 year training and evaluation period. Civilian candidates who successfully complete the training and evaluation and are selected as astronauts will become permanent Federal employees and will be expected to remain with NASA for a period of at least five years. Civilian candidates who are not selected as astronauts may be placed in other positions within NASA depending upon Agency requirements and manpower constraints at that time. Successful military candidates will be detailed to NASA for a specified tour of duty. NASA has an affirmative action program goal of having qualified minorities and women among those qualified as astronaut candidates. Therefore, qualified minorities and women are encouraged to apply. Pay and Benefits ---------------- Civilians Salaries for civilian astronaut candidates are based on the Federal Governments General Schedule pay scales for grades GS-11 through GS-14, and are set in accordance with each individuals academic achievements and experience. Other benefits include vacation and sick leave, a retirement plan, and participation in group health and life insurance plans. Military Selected military personnel will be detailed to the Johnson Space Center but will remain in an active duty status for pay, benefits, leave, and other similar military matters.
The immunization program is just a "useful first step". Among other things, the money will go to pay for creating and maintaning a a computerized "innoculation" database on all U.S. children. (code-named Big Mother... Just kidding, the name will be Children Defense Database, or something like that.) Once the money is spent and little or no tangible results achieved, the goverment will have to start knocking down doors, in some neigborhoods, and bribe parents in others (probably the ones that are paying kids for attending the school - what a fantastic idea!) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Disclaimer: Opinions expressed are mine, not my employer's.
I'd offer $150 for your scanner, shipping at your expense, payment to be sent by personal check within 24 hours after receipt of goods -- or if you live nearby and can deliver, payment in cash with 24 hour advance notice so I can go to the bank. If sent by mail, I reserve the right to return it at my expense if when I check it out I find it to be defective in some way. BTW, why would you sell such a fine scanner? Did you replace it with some other instrument or find it not to be satisfactory in some way?
>But is it any worse than the current unsecure system? It becomes much >worse, of course, if the government then uses this "Clinton Clipper" >to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (This is the main >concern of most of us, I think. The camel's nose in the tent, etc.) Excuse me? This has *already* happened. There's a couple of humps in the tent already. Ask the folks at Qualcomm what became of the non-trivial encryption scheme they proposed for use in their CDMA digitial cellular phone standard? There *already* are restrictions in place. You have it slightly wrong. They dumped the encryption system because they could not export it -- not because they could not produce it for U.S. use. There are no legal restraints on citizen use of strong cryptography -- yet. -- Perry Metzger pmetzger@shearson.com
David
Some people pay shares that are more "fair" than others, and will continue to do so, even with the presence of President Clinton. Until the rich elite *hurt* from taxes and shower me with their blood dripping from the wound of the tax dagger, I will scream and yell. Because, taxes are killing the poor and middle-class, and I'm tired of the wealthy getting a free ride in this country. Sure, they pay a lot of taxes, but I want them to SHARE MY PAIN!! And, not even Slick Willy is *that* fair, is he, seeing that he and his wife qualify as one of those wealthy people I was talking about? [They're on the lower end of "wealthy", but "wealthy" they are.] Yah, I think the draft for Vietnam was a sack of shit. But, do we get to pick and choose which laws we obey, Mr. Chaudhary? If so, shall we set up a "you follow the laws you like, and I'll follow the laws I like" arrangement? I never thought much of beaded curtains. Now beaded seat-covers, on the other hand.... I didn't think I was going to respond to this, but I changed my mind. Tell me, why do you think health care is a human right? This isn't a flame or anything, I just wonder. Next thing you know, free public transportation will be a human right. Maybe membership at prestigious health spas? [Sorry to grease the hill on ya there....] Be sure and wrap that wanker when you go spreadin' that free love stuff around. (Or, after the FDA gets its thumb out of its ass, use that neat new "Reality" femi-condom.) So do I. Amen. And all that. What the hell is an "acadamia" anyway? Is that like a macadamia? cpk -- It's been 80 days. Do you know where your wallet is?
You forget that Apollo was a Government program and had to start relatively from scratch. Some people at NASA think that this could work. One of them replied to me personally after I posted this original message several days ago. I have heard Jerry Pournelle suggest this idea before.
There were many injustices in the middle ages. And this is truely sad. I would hate to see a day when churches put people to death or torchured them for practicing homosexuality, or any other crime. The church is not called to take over the governments of the world. It may be that homosexuals treated cruelly today, but that does not mean that we should teach Christians to practice homosexual immorality. Do you think that we should also teach Christians to practice divination and channelling because the witches in the middle ages were persecuted. And you accuse me of judging? When did you look into my heart and see if I have love. I have been writing that we should not teach Christians to practice homosexual immorality, and you pretend to have divine knowledge to look into my heart. I can't say that I love homosexuals as I should- I can't say that I love my neighbor as I should either. I don't know very many homosexuals as it is. But Jesus loves homosexuals, just as He loves everyone else. If His love were conditional, I not know Him at all. Yes. We should show love to homosexuals, but it is not love to encourage brothers in the church to stumble and continue in their sin. That is a very damaging and dangerous thing. That is slander. I could just as easily say that NAMBLA has been able to implement legislation to make child molesting easier because of the tearing down of societies morality due to people accepting homosexuality as normal, and that this is what you are embracing. I do believe that homosexual sex is immoral, that does not mean I endorse using violence against them. There is a problem of hatred in the church. But there is also the problem of what has been called "unsanctified mercy." Many in the conservative churches have seen the moral breakdown in this country and the storm on the horizon, and have gotten militant in the flesh. This is truely sad. Yet others in other churches have embraced immorality in society, and have pointed to the carnality in the conservative churches to justify their actions. Certainly we should not use a bullwhip to drive people from Jesus. But we shouldn't water down the gospel to draw people in. Jesus didn't go out of His way to show only what might be considered positive aspects to draw people in. He told one man to sell all He had. He told another not to say good bye to His family. His words were hard at times. We should present people with the cost of the tower before we allow them to begin construction. many people have already been innoculated to the gospel. Link Hudson.
The FLYERS team that can beat any team on any night showed up at the Spectrum Sunday night, and dominated the Maple Leafs thoroughly en route to a 4-0 shutout. Tommy Soderstrom will get credit for the shutout, but he barely broke a sweat until the third period as the FLYERS defense kept the Leafs from mounting any serious attack. Injuries: Pelle Eklund is day-to-day with a bruised thigh. Roster Moves: Jason Bowen was added to the lineup for his first NHL game. Jason was the FLYERS second pick in the first round (15th overall) of the 1992 entry draft. 19 years old, 6'4", 210 lbs. In 62 games with the tri-city Americans he had 10 goals, 12 assists and 219 PIM. He plays left wing and defense, he played defense in this game although Bobby Taylor said that Bill Dineen was planning to use him up front as well. Andre Faust was returned to Hershey. He actually left after the second period of the Kings game, flew to Albany, got the game tying goal in a Bears OT win, and played again for Hershey Sunday night. Lines: Fedyk-Lindros-Recchi Beranek-Brind'Amour-Dineen Lomakin-Butsayev-Conroy Acton-Brown Galley-McGill Yushkevich-Cronin Carkner-Hawgood Bowen Tommy Soderstrom in goal. Acton replaced Lomakin in the 3rd period. Game Summary: If the FLYERS played like this every night, they'd be in the playoffs this year. The FLYERS hit everything that moved. They created scoring chance after scoring chance. They snuffed out everything that the Leafs tried to do. Jason Bowen made a good play on his first NHL shift that almost created a goal. He had the puck in the top of the left offensive circle all alone, but instead of taking the shot he found Brind'Amour crashing the net on the other side. A perfect pass and a good shot across Daren Puppa's body should have been a goal, but Puppa made a great save reading the play. Garry Galley gave the Maple Leafs 7th ranked power play the first chance when he hooked Doug Gilmour at 4:25. The FLYERS lowly 21st ranked penalty killing unit was almost flawless the entire game, and set the tone on this kill. The Maple Leafs got almost nothing but long unscreened shots, and the defense swept away every rebound. After the power play, the FLYERS got a goal on an ugly play. Rod Brind'Amour gave the puck to Greg Hawgood at the right point, and he sent a drive at the net. Puppa made the save and kicked the rebound right into the feet of Josef Beranek and Bob Rouse, who were wrestling in the slot. Beranek was able to get his stick on the puck and push it out to Dineen who was skating into the slot from the right circle, and he lifted a backhander over Puppa for a 1-0 FLYERS lead at 8:10. The FLYERS kept the pressure on, and Puppa was the only Leaf keeping the FLYERS from building on their lead for a while. Eventually things settled down and defense prevailed. Each team got an occasional scoring chance, but the goalies were strong. Bowen started giving some Lindros-like checks in his own corners. Then Lindros, who was looking to avenge a hit Foligno gave him, thought he had a chance to even the score. He had Foligno lined up at center ice, leaned into him, and rode him into the center ice boards. The only problem was that Foligno was a little far from the boards, and Mike "Mister" McGeough felt that it warranted a boarding call at 15:38 The Leafs couldn't get anything going on the power play as the FLYERS were very aggressive (for a change) on the kill. With time running out in the period, Recchi carried through the neutral zone and handed to Lindros as they approached the Leaf's blue line. They were in a crowd with Wendell Clark and Jamie Macoun, Lindros tried a backhand pass to Recchi through the feet of Macoun that connected to Recchi, but then Clark checked Recchi off the puck. Macoun then tried to clear, but it was weak and went right to McGill who had manned the point. He drove it from just inside the blue line. Macoun got his stick on it and deflected it past his own goalie at 19:55.1. Shots were 13-8 FLYERS in the period. The FLYERS finally got their first chance on the power play when Dave Andreychuk tripped up Rod Brind'Amour in his offensive zone. During the power play, the FLYERS got cheated a little when the puck popped up into the air and Eric gloved it down, but McGeough thought it hit his stick above his head. We could see from our seats at the other end of the ice that it only hit his glove and the replay confirmed, but the faceoff went to the other end. As time was running out in the advantage, Lindros found Galley with a pass across the goal mouth but Puppa made the save. The rebound kicked back to the right corner where Recchi picked it up, passed it out to Eric crashing through the right circle, and Eric one-timed past Puppa at 7:55. With the assist, Recchi moves past Bobby Clarke's 74-75 season, the second best one season total for a FLYER at 117. Eric moves up to 4th all time in FLYERS rookie scoring with 67 points. Mike Eastwood took down Al Conroy at 8:30 to give the FLYERS another chance on the power play. Not much pressure before Garry Galley ended the power play with a slash at 9:19. Not much happened on the 4 on 4, although the Leafs had most of the possession. The FLYERS smothered the Leafs short power play. Tempers flared a little at 13:14. Bowen and Pearson got roughing minors, Keith Acton got a bloody face. Dave McLlwain then took a dive and got Greg Hawgood a hooking minor at 13:46 to set up a 4 on 3. The replay showed that Hawgood's stick stopped making contact with McLlwain long before he spun around and fell. Again the FLYERS smothered the Leafs power play, led by Dimitri Yushkevich. Bowen made a thundering hit when he came out of the box on Pearson. Berehowski tried to perplex everybody with his sloooowball. He had the puck at the point, and just trickled a pass down the slot. He made all the FLYERS look silly as nobody could get a stick on it, and it got to Gilmour at the side of the net, but Soderstrom stoned him. The FLYERS picked things up offensively after the kill was over, but didn't get anything home. Shots were 13-10 FLYERS. The FLYERS were content with the 3 goal lead in the third period, and they decided that if Tommy wanted a shutout, he was going to have to work for it a little. The FLYERS got most of the scoring chances in the first 7 or so minutes of the period, but couldn't get past Puppa. Then the Leafs got tired of Lindros making road kill out of them, and tempers flared. 2 each for Doug Gilmour and Lindros (unsportsmanlike conduct) and 2 each for Glenn Anderson and McGill (roughing) all at 7:02. Terry Carkner then took a kneeing penalty at 7:51 on Gilmour. Again the FLYERS smothered the Leafs power play. At about the 12 minute mark, Dave Andreychuk got a shot away from his left circle that got through Soderstrom. The puck was rolling on it's side, and as luck would have it it turned away from the net instead of turning towards it (think of how a rolling quarter inevitably starts to lean one way or the other). Seconds later Rod Brind'Amour tripped up Gilmour at 12:24 to give the Leafs another chance on the power play. On the advantage, after Soderstrom stoned Andreychuk while lying down, Andreychuk got the rebound through Soderstrom, but from behind the net and it went straight through and was swept away by one of his defensemen. They kept the pressure on, but Soderstrom was equal and preserved the shutout. Recchi cross checked Ken Baumgartner to get tempers hot and start a brawl at 16:01. No punches thrown, Recchi got the initial minor, Krushelnyski Baumgartner and Lindros each got roughing minors. At 17:02 Rouse and Beranek expressed their mutual dislike for each other and got 2 each for slashing to set up another 4 on 4. Mike Eastwood shoved down Ryan McGill in the FLYERS zone as they were battling for the puck, and while McGill was down he ran his stick across McGill's face. The FLYERS were not happy with that at all. 5-8 Al Conroy paired up with 6-1 Berehowski, and started throwing punches. Upward. Well, Al held his own, much to the delight of the crowd. Each got a couple punches in before going down in a head, and Al got a standing O! Penalties: Eastwood 5 (cross check) + game, Clark, Carkner 10 each. Berehowski and Conroy 5 each (fighting) at 17:49. So a major penalty for the rest of the game for the FLYERS. The had no interest in stting on the lead. Hawgood, Galley and Brind'Amour played catch until Hawgood found Dineen all alone in the left circle, he controlled the puck and blasted it past Puppa at 18:39. That was all the fireworks, Tommy Soderstrom would not face another shot. Puppa did, but kept the FLYERS off the board. 4-0 FLYERS, shots were 9-8 FLYERS in the 3rd. Probably the strongest game I've seen from the FLYERS since the All Star break. Shutout number 4 for Soderstrom, all since 1/10. Tied for 2nd most in the NHL, but he's played fewer games than Belfour (6) or the goalie I can't remember that he's tied with. Next up it's the Winnipeg Selannes Tuesday night in Winnipeg. The FLYERS cannot be eliminated if they win, but a loss coupled with an Islander win that night in Washington would be the official end. FLYERS up to 71 points on the season in 78 games. Last year they had 75 points in 80 games (5 under .500), so they need at least 8 points in their last 6 games to improve on that only by percentage points (5 under in 84 is better than 5 under in 80). Tragic number holds at 3 points with 6 games left. The tragic number for 5th is 5 points, I watched the Rangers blow a 4-2 third period lead at home to lose 5-4 before I finished this up. Why 5 points instead of 4? Well, the FLYERS will win the tie-breaker if they catch them, whereas the Islanders win tie breakers against the FLYERS and so need only a tie. The Rangers could crumble down the stretch as they play the Devils, the Pens twice, the FLYERS, and finish up with 2 games against the Caps. So I guess 5th place could be the goal for the team to focus on. FLYERS team record watch: Eric Lindros: 38 goals, 29 assists, 67 points (rookie records) club record goals: club record points: Eric Lindros 38 1992-93 Dave Poulin 76 1983-84 Brian Propp 34 1979-80 Brian Propp 75 1979-80 Ron Flockhart 33 1981-82 Ron Flockhart 72 1981-82 Dave Poulin 31 1983-84 Eric Lindros 67 1992-93 Bill Barber 30 1972-73 Pelle Eklund 66 1985-86 Mark Recchi: 51 goals, 66 assists, 117 points. club record goals: club record points: Reggie Leach 61 1975-76 Bobby Clarke 119 1975-76 Tim Kerr 58 1985-86,86-87 Mark Recchi 117 1992-93 Tim Kerr 54 1983-84,84-85 Bobby Clarke 116 1974-75 Mark Recchi 51 1992-93 Bill Barber 112 1975-76 Rick Macliesh 50 1972-73 Bobby Clarke 104 1972-73 Bill Barber 50 1975-76 Rick Macliesh 100 1972-73 Reggie Leach 50 1979-80 FLYERS career years: Player Points Best Prior Season Mark Recchi 117 113 (90-91 Penguins) Rod Brind'Amour 79 77 (91-92 FLYERS) Garry Galley 58 38 (84-85 Kings) Brent Fedyk 58 35 (90-91 Red Wings) That's all for now...
I replied to your message, however, it is listed as a new topic with the title: "rnitedace and violence". Possibly line noise or error caused to post as a new topic. I see it here as #100. Regards,
Is that what turns you on? The truth needs to be told over and over again. There are Armenians who of course witnessed the Armenian genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people between 1914-1920 but their voices of truth are suppressed today in the hollow din of anti-Turkish/Muslim campaign by the ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangle of the fascist x-Soviet Armenian Government. Well, that is what I saw in the library. What's your problem with this? Source: K. S. Papazian, "Patriotism Perverted," Baikar Press, Boston, 1934. pp. 17-18. "It seems that terrorism against their own co-nationals has been a prominent part of the revolutionary activities of the Dashnag leaders of the Caucasus. Organized to fight the Turks, these chieftains have been more successful in their fight against their Armenian opponents in Turkey, and the Caucasus, very often defenseless and innocent." p. 38. "The fact remains, however, that the leaders of the Turkish Armenian section of the Dashnagtzoutune did not carry out their promise of loyalty to the Turkish cause when the Turks entered the war...and a call was sent for Armenian volunteers to fight the Turks on the Caucasian front." p. 38. "Thousands of Armenians from all over the world, flocked to the standards of such famous fighters as Antranik, Kery, Dro, etc. The Armenian volunteer regiments rendered valuable service to the Russian Army in the years of 1914-15-16." Source: "Adventures in the Near East, 1918-1922" by A. Rawlinson, Jonathan Cape, 30 Bedford Square, London, 1934 (First published 1923) (287 pages). (Memoirs of a British officer who witnessed the Armenian genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 184 (second paragraph) "I had received further very definite information of horrors that had been committed by the Armenian soldiery in Kars Plain, and as I had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their treatment of my own detached parties, I had wired to Tiflis from Zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the Armenians should not be left in independent command of the Moslem population, as, their troops being without discipline and not under effective control, atrocities were constantly being committed, for which we should with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'." p. 177 (third paragraph) "Armenian troops, who, having pillaged and destroyed all the Moslem villages in the plain...." "Caravans of refugees were in the meanwhile constantly arriving from the plain, from which the whole Moslem population was fleeing with as much of their personal property as they could transport, seeking to obtain security and protection..." p. 178 (first paragraph) "In those Moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched for arms by the Armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of such search, and not only had many Moslems been killed, but horrible tortures had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as to where valuables had been hidden, of which the Armenians were aware of the existence, although they had been unable to find them." p. 179 (first paragraph) "Shortly afterwards the head of the miserable column appeared. There were in all about 200 persons, mostly old men and women and children, with a few ox-carts, ponies, and donkeys, carrying all their worldly possessions, except a few sheep that they were driving before them. Their leader interviewed Bekir Bey, and was told to keep farther on into the hills, where he would be able to cross the frontier into Turkey unmolested by his enemies." p. 181 (first paragraph) "the Armenians from the plain were attacking the Kurdish line with artillery, with probably a large force in support." p. 175 (first paragraph) "The arrival of this British brigade was followed by the announcement that Kars Province had been allotted by the Supreme Council of the Allies to the Armenians, and that announcement having been made, the British troops were then completely withdrawn, and Armenian occupation commenced. Hence all the trouble; for the Armenians at once commenced the wholesale robbery and persecution of the Muslem population on the pretext that it was necessary forcibly to deprive them of their arms. In the portion of the province which lies in the plains they were able to carry out their purpose, and the manner in which this was done will be referred to in due course." The following news from Turan News Agency in Baku-Azerbaijan is brought to you as a service of: <Azerbaijan Aydinlig Association> P.O. Box 14571 Berkeley, CA 94701 FAX: (804) 490-3832 Email: farid@mem.odu.edu * AZERBAIJAN'S GOVERNMENT APPEALS TO COMPATRIOTS ALL OVER THE WORLD * 60 REFUGEES FROM KELBAJAR PERISHED IN THEIR ESCAPE LORRIES * SITUATION IN THE REGION OF KELBAJAR * ARMENIAN ARMY CONTINUES ATTACK ON FIZULI * PRESS-CONFERENCE OF THE CHIEF OF PRESS-SERVICE OF PRESIDENT OF AZERBAIJAN * AZERBAIJANIS PICKET IN FRONT OF MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF RUSSIA * PICKET OF SADVALERS IN MOSCOW * ATTACK OF ARMENIAN UNITS STOPPED * STATEMENT OF MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN'S GOVERNMENT APPEALS TO COMPATRIOTS ALL OVER THE WORLD BAKU (APRIL 5) TURAN: Today, Azerbaijan's government appealed to Azeris all over the world in connection with escalation of the Armenian aggression against the republic. It is stressed in appeal that the experience of five-years of fighting for independence from imperial chains shows a grim process . The war against Azerbaijan under the pretence of protecting the human rights of the Armenians of Ukhari (Upper) Garabag, has meant the destruction of Azeri villages and towns, occupation of 10 percent of the territory, 60 thousand new refugees in addition to 500 thousand already in place. This is all the price of fighting for liberty from Russian imperial rule, is said in the document. Azerbaijan's government appeals to all compatriots to make every effort to inform the people of the world about the truth in Azerbaijan, and to assistance in solving the problems facing the young state. It is stressed in the appeal that there is urgent need for medicine, food, experienced doctors and financial help to settle refugees from Kelbajar, Fizuli and Lachin regions, and to render medical aid for the sick and the wounded men.--O-- 60 REFUGEES FROM KELBAJAR PERISHED IN THEIR ESCAPE LORRIES BAKU (APRIL 5) TURAN: Today, during the evacuation from Kelbajar region, 60 refugees on board two lorries were killed in the fire from the Armenian Tanks on the only road to leave Kelbajar. According to press -service of Azerbaijan president, no one survived the tragedy. --O-- SITUATION IN THE REGION OF KELBAJAR BAKU (5 APRIL) TURAN: Attempts to evacuate the rest of 15,000 citizens, encircled on alpine villages of the region of Kelbajar went on within the last twenty-four hours. Evacuation helicopters could not land near these villages because of shelling from the Armenian side and existence of fog. Measures are undertaken to air-drop food and medicine to the encircled people. Several hundred people succeed within the last twenty-four hours to get out of the region of Kelbajar via mountain range. Refugees are settled in the neighboring regions of Azerbaijan and in Ganja. Authorities face serious problem with rendering refugees medical aid and food. The number of refugees from Kelbajar is over 40,000 people. Azerbaijan is not capable of handling a disaster of this magnitude.--0-- ARMENIAN ARMY CONTINUES ATTACK ON FIZULI BAKU (5 APRIL) TURAN: The region of Fizuli of Azerbaijan, situated outside of the territory of Daglig (Nagorno) Garabag, has been subjected to heaviest attacks of Armenian army for the fourth day. About 30 armored technique and more than 500 soldiers of the enemy are taking part in the attack. Armenian units broke the defence line of the azeri forces and occupied the ruling height from where the town is shelled from "Grad" installations, this morning. There is heavy destructions in the town and more than 20 people are dead. Population of the town is hastily evacuated.--0-- PRESS-CONFERENCE OF THE CHIEF OF PRESS-SERVICE OF PRESIDENT OF AZERBAIJAN BAKU (5 APRIL) TURAN: Fifty-five thousand refugees from the region of Kelbajar were taken out by 11 o'clock on April 5, informed the chief of the press-service of president of Azerbaijan, Arif Aliev, today. Journalists were also informed at the press-conference that International Red Cross is helping to accept and render refugees medical aid. There is an urgent need to supply the refugees with tents, food and medical aid. Arif Aliev informed that as a result of the ongoing tragedy brought on by the latest aggression of Armenia, the leadership of Azerbaijan intends to appeal to Azerbaijanis and all those who treasure human life all over the world for help. Concerning the reaction of the international community to aggression of Armenia, Aliev said the department of state of the USA has expressed its anxiety to leadership of Armenia. Participants of peace efforts in Daglig (Nagorno) Garabag under CSCE, Rafaelli, Mareska and Chetin strongly blamed the aggression of Armenia against Azerbaijan. Leader of press-service informed that tomorrow ambassador of Azerbaijan in Russia, Hikmet Haji-zade, will conduct a press-conference in Moscow. Detailed information on latest events in the region of Kelbajar of Azerbaijan will be given at the press-conference.--0-- AZERBAIJANIS PICKET IN FRONT OF MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF RUSSIA BAKU (5 APRIL) TURAN: Azerbaijanis, living in Moscow, picketed in front of the building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia. Picket was conducted as a token of protest against participation of Russian units in capture of the region of Kelbajar of Azerbaijan by Armenians. About 100 people took part in the picket, organized by Azerbaijani society "Dayag".--0-- PICKET OF SADVALERS IN MOSCOW BAKU (5 APRIL) 30-40 members of "Sadval" society picketed before the building of permanent representation of Azerbaijan in Moscow. Picketers were demanding the return of Lezghins lands, as if annexed by Azerbaijan. Ambassador of Azerbaijan in Moscow, Hikmet Haji-zade classified this action as provocation aimed at creating a further inter-ethnic conflict in Azerbaijan. He marked in his talk with the Turan correspondent that he does not rule out a connection between the Armenian aggression in the region of Kelbajar and this anti- azerbaijani action of the "Sadval" society in Moscow. He also marked that 30-40 people do not mean the Lezghian nationality in the whole. Society of Lezghins, "Sadval", registered in Moscow in 1990, demands the creation of a Lezghistan state, which never existed before on the northern territories of Azerbaijan.--0-- ATTACK OF ARMENIAN UNITS STOPPED BAKU (5 APRIL) TURAN: Attack of Armenian army on the town of Fizuli, which began in the last twenty-four hours, is stopped, informs the press-service of the Ministry of Defence of Azerbaijan. In the result of undertaken measures, 6 tanks and a number of the attackers were destroyed. Advance units of the Armenian army retreated several kilometers. Chairman of the parliament, Isa Gambar, visited the town of Fizuli and met with commanders of the units of the national army and local citizens, today.--0-- STATEMENT OF MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF AZERBAIJAN BAKU (5 APRIL) TURAN: Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan issued a statement in connection with aggression of Armenia in the region of Kelbajar of Azerbaijan. It is stated in the statement that regular units of the armed forces of Armenia captured the town of Kelbajar on April 3 . Attack of Armenian units, which began on March 27 deep in the territory of Azerbaijan still continues. Armenia has occupied at present 7500 sq.km of the territory of Azerbaijan. Spreading of Armenian aggression far away from Ukhari (Upper) Garabag proves that the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflicts has entered a specially dangerous phase. This is the result of non-recognition of Armenia as an aggressor by the international community, is marked in the document. It is stressed in the statement that the units of the 7th Russian army are participating in the Armenian attack. This casts doubt on the sincerity of Russian mediation efforts in finding a peaceful solution to the conflict. It is marked in conclusion that aggressive actions of Armenia have wrecked the negotiation process under aegis of CSCE. The document contains the appeal to the world community to stop Armenian aggression and to use political and economic sanctions against the aggressor.--0-- Serdar Argic
Here is another anecdotal story. I am a picky eater and never wanted to try chinese food, however, I finally tried some in order to please a girl I was seeing at the time. I had never heard of Chinese restaurant syndrome. A group of us went to the restaurant and all shared 6 different dishes. It didn't taste great, but I decided it wasn't so bad. We went home and went to bed early. I woke up at 2 AM and puked my guts outs. I threw up for so long that (I'm not kidding) I pulled a muscle in my tongue. Dry heaves and everything. No one else got sick, and I'm not allergic to anything that I know of. Suffice to say that I wont go into a chinese restaurant unless I am physically threatened. The smell of the food makes me ill (and that *is* a psycholgical reaction). When I have been dragged in to suffer through beef and broccoli without any sauces, I insist on no MSG. I haven't gotten sick yet.
I offered to relay this information for a ham friend of mine without Internet access: His name is Robert (Bob) Wondolowski, N1KDA, and his car was a 1985 Brown Cutlas Sierra Sedan, Massachusetts plate 716ADL. His HT (Yaesu FT415) and mobile antenna were also included in the car. It was stolen from Lynn, Mass. about 10 days ago (being on April 6). If anyone has any information about the car's whereabouts, please e-mail me. Thank you for taking the time to read this message. =============================================================================== ===============================================================================
But I gotta tell ya, If the Hawks can't beat the Blues in a game that IS significant I can't wait to see how the Blues might do against Toronto ;) BTW, if you think that the Hawks deserved to win that game I think you were not watching the same one everyone else was. ROAR'IN LEAF FAN
The fantasy was that he had found something of fundamental importance to one of the hot questions of the day ('77). He really had very little reason to believe it, other than raw hope. By fantasy, I certainly don't mean Velikovskian manias. I'm not familiar with the history of this experiment, although, arguably, I should be. I think that it is enough if his contemporaries found the result surprising. That's not what I'd quibble about. What I'd like to know are Toricelli's reasons for doing his experiment; not the post hoc _constructed_ reasons, but the thoughts in his head as he considered the problem. It may be impossible to know much about Toricelli's thoughts; that's too bad if it is so. One of Root-Bernstein's services to science is that he has gone rooting about in Pasteur's and Fleming's (and other people's) notes, and has discovered some surprising clues about their motivations. Pasteur never publicly admitted his plan to create mirror-image life, but the dreams are right there in his notebooks (finally public after many years), ready for anyone to read. And I and my friends often have the most ridiculous reasons for pursuing results; one of my best came because I was mad at a colleague for a poorly-written claim (I disproved the claim). Of course, Toricelli's case may be an example of a rarety: where the fantasy not only motivates the experiment, but turns out to be right in the end. Mark
This is a periodic posting intended to answer the Frequently Asked Question: What is the DoD? It is posted the first of each month, with an expiration time of over a month. Thus, unless your site's news software is ill-mannered, this posting should always be available. This WitDoDFAQ is crossposted to all four rec.motorcycles groups in an attempt to catch most new users, and followups are directed to rec.motorcycles. Last changed 9-Feb-93 to add a message from the KotL, and a bit of Halon. VERSION 1.1 This collection was originally assembled by Lissa Shoun, from the original postings. With Lissa's permission, I have usurped the title of KotWitDoDFAQ. Any corrections, additions, bribes, etc. should be aimed at blgardne@javelin.sim.es.com. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Contents: How do I get a DoD number? by Blaine Gardner DoD #46 DoD "Road Rider" article by Bruce Tanner DoD #161 What is the DoD? by John Sloan DoD #11 The DoD Logo by Chuck Rogers DoD #3 The DoD (this started it all) by The Denizen of Doom DoD #1 The DoD Anthem by Jonathan Quist DoD #94 Why you have to be killed by Blaine Gardner DoD #46 The rec.moto.photo.archive courtesy of Bruce Tanner DoD #161 Patches? What patches? by Blaine Gardner DoD #46 Letter from the AMA museum by Jim Rogers, Director DoD #395 The DoD Rules by consensus Other rec.moto resources by various Keepers DoD #misc The rec.moto.reviews.archive courtesy of Loki Jorgenson DoD #1210 Updated stats & rides info by Ed Green (DoD #111) and others ------------------------------------------------------------------------ How do I get a DoD number? If the most Frequently Asked Question in rec.motorcycles is "What is the DoD?", then the second most Frequently Asked Question must be "How do I get a DoD number?" That is as simple as asking the Keeper of the List (KotL, accept no substitue Keepers) for a number. If you're feeling creative, and your favorite number hasn't been taken already, you can make a request, subject to KotL approval. (Warning, non-numeric, non- base-10 number requests are likely to earn a flame from the KotL. Not that you won't get it, but you _will_ pay for it.) Oh, and just one little, tiny suggestion. Ask the KotL in e-mail. You'll just be playing the lightning rod for flames if you post to the whole net, and you'll look like a clueless newbie too. By now you're probably asking "So who's the KotL already?". Well, as John Sloan notes below, that's about the only real "secret" left around here, but a few (un)subtle hints can be divulged. First, it is not myself, nor anyone mentioned by name in this posting (maybe :-), though John was the original KotL. Second, in keeping with the true spirit of Unix, the KotL's first name is only two letters long, and can be spelled entirely with hexadecimal characters. (2.5, the KotL shares his name with a line- oriented text utility.) Third, he has occasionally been seen posting messages bestowing new DoD numbers (mostly to boneheads with "weenie mailers"). Fourth, there is reason to suspect the KotL of being a Dead-Head. ***************** Newsflash: A message from the KotL ****************** Once you have surmounted this intellectual pinnacle and electronically groveled to the KotL, please keep in mind that the KotL does indeed work for a living, and occasionally must pacify its boss by getting something done. Your request may languish in mailer queue for (gasp!) days, perhaps even (horrors!) a week or two. During such times of economic activity on the part of the KotL's employers, sending yet another copy of your request will not speed processing of the queue (it just makes it longer, verification of this phenominon is left as an excersize for the reader). If you suspect mailer problems, at least annotate subsequent requests with an indication that a former request was submitted, lest you be assigned multiple numbers (what, you think the KotL *memorizes* the list?!?). *********************************************************************** One more thing, the KotL says that its telepathic powers aren't what they used to be. So provide some information for the list, will ya? The typical DoD List entry contains number, name, state/country, & e-mail address. For example: 0111:Ed Green:CA:ed.green@East.Sun.COM (PS: While John mentions below that net access and a bike are the only requirements for DoD membership, that's not strictly true these days, as there are a number of Denizens who lack one or both.) Blaine (Dances With Bikers) Gardner blgardne@javelin.sim.es.com ------------------------------------------------------------------------ "Denizens of Doom", by Bruce Tanner (DoD 0161) [Road Rider, August 1991, reprinted with Bruce's permission] There is a group of motorcyclists that gets together and does all the normal things that a bunch of bikers do. They discuss motorcycles and motorcycling, beverages, cleaning fluids, baklavah, balaclava, caltrops, helmets, anti-fog shields, spine protectors, aerodynamics, three-angle valve seats, bird hits, deer whistles, good restaurants, racing philosophy, traffic laws, tickets, corrosion control, personalities, puns, double entendres, culture, absence of culture, first rides and friendship. They argue with each other and plan rides together. The difference between this group and your local motorcycle club is that, although they get together just about everyday, most have never seen each other face to face. The members of this group live all over the known world and communicate with each other electronically via computer. The computers range from laptops to multi-million dollar computer centers; the people range from college and university students to high-tech industry professionals to public-access electronic bulletin-board users. Currently, rec.motorcycles (pronounced "wreck-dot-motorcycles," it's the file name for the group's primary on-line "meeting place") carries about 2250 articles per month; it is read by an estimated 29,000 people. Most of the frequent posters belong to a motorcycle club, the Denizens of Doom, usually referred to as the DoD. The DoD started when motorcyclist John R. Nickerson wrote a couple of parodies designed to poke fun at motorcycle stereotypes. Fellow computer enthusiast Bruce Robinson posted these articles under the pen name, "Denizen of Doom." A while later Chuck Rogers signed off as DoD nr. 0003 Keeper of the Flame. Bruce was then designated DoD nr. 0002, retroactively and, of course, Nickerson, the originator of the parodies, was given DoD nr. 0001. The idea of a motorcycle club with no organization, no meetings and no rules appealed to many, so John Sloan -- DoD nr. 0011 -- became Keeper of the List, issuing DoD numbers to anyone who wanted one. To date there have been almost 400 memberships issued to people all over the United States and Canada, as well as Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway and Finland. Keeper of the List Sloan eventually designed a club patch. The initial run of 300 patches sold out immediately. The profits from this went to the American Motorcycle Heritage Foundation. Another AMHF fund raiser -- selling Denizens of Doom pins to members -- was started by Arnie Skurow a few months later. Again, the project was successful and the profits were donated to the foundation. So far, the Denizens have contributed over $1500 to the AMA museum. A plaque in the name of the Denizens of Doom now hangs in the Motorcycle Heritage Museum. As often as possible, the DoD'ers crawl out from behind their CRTs and go riding together. It turns out that the two largest concentrations of DoD'ers are centered near Denver/Boulder, Colorado, and in California's "Silicon Valley." Consequently, two major events are the annual Assault on Rollins Pass in Colorado, and the Northern versus Southern California "Joust." The Ride-and-Feed is a bike trip over Rollins Pass, followed by a big barbecue dinner. The concept for the Joust is to have riders from Northern California ride south; riders from Southern California to ride north, meeting at a predesignated site somewhere in the middle. An additional plan for 1991 is to hold an official Denizens of Doom homecoming in conjunction with the AMA heritage homecoming in Columbus, Ohio, in July. Though it's a safe bet the the Denizens of Doom and their collective communications hub, rec.motorcycles, will not replace the more traditional motorcycle organizations, for those who prowl the electronic pathways in search of two-wheeled camaraderie, it's a great way for kindred spirits to get together. Long may they flame. "Live to Flame -- Flame to Live" [centerbar] This official motto of the Denizens of Doom refers to the ease with which you can gratuitously insult someone electronically, when you would not do anything like that face to face. These insults are known as "flames"; issuing them is called "flaming." Flames often start when a member disagrees with something another member has posted over the network. A typical, sophisticated, intelligent form of calm, reasoned rebuttal would be something like: "What an incredibly stupid statement, you Spandex-clad poseur!" This will guarantee that five other people will reply in defense of the original poster, describing just what they think of you, your riding ability and your cat. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ _The Denizens of Doom: The Saga Unfolds_ by John Sloan DoD #0011 Periodically the question "What is DoD?" is raised. This is one of those questions in the same class as "Why is the sky blue?", "If there is a God, why is there so much suffering in the world?" and "Why do women inevitably tell you that you're such a nice guy just before they dump you?", the kinds of questions steeped in mysticism, tradition, and philosophy, questions that have inspired research and discussion by philosophers in locker rooms, motorcycle service bays, and in the halls of academe for generations. A long, long time ago (in computer time, where anything over a few minutes is an eternity and the halting problem really is a problem) on a computer far, far away on the net (topologically speaking; two machines in the same room in Atlanta might route mail to one another via a system in Chicago), a chap who wished to remain anonymous (but who was eventually assigned the DoD membership #1) wrote a satire of the various personalities and flame wars of rec.motorcycles, and signed it "The Denizen of Doom". Not wishing to identify himself, he asked that stalwart individual who would in the fullness of time become DoD #2 to post it for him. DoD #2, not really giving a whit about what other people thought and generally being a right thinking individual, did so. Flaming and other amusements followed. He who would become the holder of DoD membership #3 thought this was the funniest thing he'd seen in a while (being the sort that is pretty easily amused), so he claimed membership in the Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club, and started signing his postings with his membership number. Perhaps readers of rec.motorcycles were struck with the vision of a motorcycle club with no dues, no rules, no restrictions as to brand or make or model or national origin of motorcycle, a club organized electronically. It may well be that readers were yearning to become a part of something that would provide them with a greater identity, a gestalt personality, something in which the whole was greater than the sum of its parts. It could also be that we're all computer nerds who wear black socks and sneakers and pocket protectors, who just happen to also love taking risks on machines with awesome power to weight ratios, social outcasts who saw a clique that would finally be open minded enough to accept us as members. In a clear case of self fulfilling prophesy, The Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club was born. A club in which the majority of members have never met one another face to face (and perhaps like it that way), yet feel that they know one another pretty well (or well enough given some of the electronic personalities in the newsgroup). A club organized and run (in the loosest sense of the word) by volunteers through the network via electronic news and mail, with a membership/mailing list (often used to organize group rides amongst members who live in the same region), a motto, a logo, a series of photo albums circulating around the country (organized by DoD #9), club patches (organized by #11), and even an MTV-style music video (produced by #47 and distributed on VHS by #18)! Where will it end? Who knows? Will the DoD start sanctioning races, placing limits on the memory and clock rate of the on-board engine management computers? Will the DoD organize poker runs where each participant collects a hand of hardware and software reference cards? Will the DoD have a rally in which the attendees demand a terminal room and at least a 386-sized UNIX system? Only time will tell. The DoD has no dues, no rules, and no requirements other than net access and a love for motorcycles. To become a member, one need only ask (although we will admit that who you must ask is one of the few really good club secrets). New members will receive via email a membership number and the latest copy of the membership list, which includes name, state, and email address. The Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club will live forever (or at least until next year when we may decided to change the name). Live to Flame - Flame to Live ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The DoD daemon as seen on the patches, pins, etc. by Chuck Rogers, car377@druhi.att.com, DoD #0003 :-( DoD )-: :-( x __ __ x )-: :-( x / / \ \ x )-: :-( x / / -\-----/- \ \ x )-: :-( L | \/ \ / \/ | F )-: :-( I | / \ / \ | L )-: :-( V \/ __ / __ \/ A )-: :-( E / / \ / \ \ M )-: :-( | | \ / | | E )-: :-( T | | . | _ | . | | )-: :-( O | \___// \\___/ | T )-: :-( \ \_/ / O )-: :-( F \___ ___/ )-: :-( L \ \ / / L )-: :-( A \ vvvvv / I )-: :-( M | ( ) | V )-: :-( E | ^^^^^ | E )-: :-( x \_______/ x )-: :-( x x )-: :-( x rec.motorcycles x )-: :-( USENET )-: ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The DoD by the Denizen of Doom DoD #1 Welcome one and all to the flamingest, most wonderfullest newsgroup of all time: wreck.mudder-disciples or is it reak.mudder-disciples? The Names have been changes to protect the Guilty (riders) and Innocent (the bikes) alike. If you think you recognize a contorted version of your name, you don't. It's just your guilt complex working against you. Read 'em and weep. We tune in on a conversation between some of our heros. Terrible Barbarian is extolling the virtues of his Hopalonga Puff-a-cane to Reverend Muck Mudgers and Stompin Fueling-Injection: Terrible: This Hopalonga is the greatest... Beats BMWs dead!! Muck: I don't mean to preach, Terrible, but lighten up on the BMW crowd eh? I mean like I like riding my Yuka-yuka Fudgeo-Jammer 11 but what the heck. Stompin: No way, the BMW is it, complete, that's all man. Terrible: Nahhhh, you're sounding like Heritick Ratatnack! Hey, at least he is selling his BMW and uses a Hopalonga Intercorruptor! Not as good as a Puff-a-cane, should have been called a Woosh-a-stream. Stompin: You mean Wee-Stream. Terrible: Waddya going to do? Call in reinforcements??? Stompin: Yehh man. Here comes Arlow Scarecrow and High Tech. Let's see what they say, eh? Muck: Now men, let's try to be civil about this. High Tech: Hi, I'm a 9 and the BMW is the greatest. Arlow: Other than my B.T. I love my BMW! Terrible: B.T.??? Arlow: Burley Thumpison, the greatest all American ride you can own. Muck: Ahhh, look, you're making Terrible gag. Terrible: What does BMW stand for anyway??? Muck, Arlow, High: Beats Me, Wilhelm. Terrible: Actually, my name is Terrible. Hmmm, I don't know either. Muck: Say, here comes Chunky Bear. Chunky: Hey, Hey, Hey! Smarter than your average bear! Terrible: Hey, didn't you drop your BMW??? Chunky: All right eh, a little BooBoo, but I left him behind. I mean even Villy Ogle flamed me for that! Muck: It's okay, we all makes mistakes. Out of the blue the West coasters arrive, led by Tread Orange with Dill Snorkssy, Heritick Ratatnack, Buck Garnish, Snob Rasseller and the perenial favorite: Hooter Boobin Brush! Heritick: Heya Terrible, how's yer front to back bias? Terrible: Not bad, sold yer BMW? Heritick: Nahhh. Hooter: Hoot, Hoot. Buck: Nice tree Hooter, how'd ya get up there? Hooter: Carbujectors from Hell!!! Muck: What's a carbujector? Hooter: Well, it ain't made of alumican!!! Made by Tilloslert!! Muck: Ahh, come on down, we aren't going to flame ya, honest!! Dill: Well, where do we race? Snob: You know, Chunky, we know about about your drop and well, don't ride! Muck: No! No! Quiet! Tread: BMW's are the greatest in my supreme level headed opinion. They even have luggage made by Sourkraut! High: My 9 too! Terrible, Heritick, Dill, Buck: Nahhhhh!!! Stompin, Tread, High, Chunky, Snob: Yesss Yessssss!!! Before this issue could be resolved the Hopalonga crew called up more cohorts from the local area including Polyanna Stirrup and the infamous Booster Robiksen on his Cavortin! Polyanna: Well, men, the real bikers use stirrups on their bikes like I use on my Hopalonga Evening-Bird Special. Helpful for getting it up on the ole ventral stand! Terrible: Hopalonga's are great like Polyanna says and Yuka-Yuka's and Sumarikis and Kersnapis are good too! Booster: I hate Cavortin. All: WE KNOW, WE KNOW. Booster: I love Cavortin. All: WE KNOW WE KNOW. Muck: Well, what about Mucho Guzlers and Lepurras? Snob, Tread: Nawwwwww. Muck: What about a Tridump? Terrible: Isn't that a chewing gum? Muck: Auggggg, Waddda about a Pluck-a-kity? Heritick: Heyya Muck, you tryin' to call up the demon rider himself? Muck: No, no. There is more to Mudder-Disciples than arguing about make. Two more riders zoom in, in the form of Pill Turret and Phalanx Lifter. Pill: Out with dorsal stands and ventral stands forever. Phalanx: Hey, I don't know about that. And Now even more west coasters pour in. Road O'Noblin: Hopalonga's are the greatest! Maulled Beerstein: May you sit on a bikejector! Suddenly more people arrived from the great dark nurth: Kite Lanolin: Hey, BMW's are great, men. Robo-Nickie: I prefer motorcycle to robot transformers, personally. More riders from the west coast come into the discussion: Aviator Sourgas: Get a Burley-Thumpison with a belted-rigged frame. Guess Gasket: Go with a BMW or Burley-Thumpison. With a roar and a screech the latest mudder-disciple thundered in. It was none other that Clean Bikata on her Hopalonga CaBammerXorn. Clean: Like look, Hopalonga are it but only CaBammerXorns. Muck: Why?? Clean: Well, like it's gotta be a 6-banger or nothin. Muck: But I only have a 4-banger. Clean: No GOOD! Chunky: Sob, some of us only have 2-bangers! Clean: Inferior! Stompin: Hey, look, here's proof BMW's are better. The Bimmer-Boys burst into song: (singing) Beemer Babe, Beemer Babe give me a thrill... Road, Terrible, Polyanna, Maulled, Dill etc.: Wadddoes BMW stand for? Heritick, Stompin, Snob, Chunky, Tread, Kite, High, Arlow: BEAT'S ME, WILHEM! Road, Terrible, Polyanna, Maulled, Dill etc.: Oh, don't you mean BMW? And so the ensuing argument goes until the skies clouded over and the thunder roared and the Greatest Mudder-Disciple (G.M.D.) of them all boomed out. G.M.D.: Enough of your bickering! You are doomed to riding Bigot & Suction powered mini-trikes for your childish actions. All: no, No, NO!!! Puhlease. Does this mean that all of the wreck.mudder-disciples will be riding mini-trikes? Are our arguing heros doomed? Tune in next week for the next gut wretching episode of "The Yearning and Riderless" with its ever increasing cast of characters. Where all technical problems will be flamed over until well done. Next week's episode will answer the question of: "To Helmet or Not to Helmet" will be aired, this is heady material and viewer discretion is advised. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Script for the Denizens of Doom Anthem Video by Jonathan E. Quist DoD #94 [Scene: A sterile engineering office. A lone figure, whom we'll call Chuck, stands by a printer output bin, wearing a white CDC lab coat, with 5 mechanical pencils in a pocket protector.] (editor's note: For some reason a great deal of amusement was had at the First Annual DoD Uni-Coastal Ironhorse Ride & Joust by denizens referring to each other as "Chuck". I guess you had to be there. I wasn't.) Chuck: I didn't want to be a Software Systems Analyst, cow-towing to the whims of a machine, and saying yessir, nosir, may-I-have-another-sir. My mother made me do it. I wanted to live a man's life, [Music slowly builds in background] riding Nortons and Triumphs through the highest mountain passes and the deepest valleys, living the life of a Motorcyclist; doing donuts and evading the police; terrorizing old ladies and raping small children; eating small dogs for tea (and large dogs for dinner). In short, I Want to be A Denizen! [Chuck rips off his lab coat, revealing black leather jacket (with fringe), boots, and cap. Scene simultaneously changes to the top of an obviously assaulted Rollins Pass. A small throng of Hell's Angels sit on their Harleys in the near background, gunning their engines, showering lookers-on with nails as they turn donuts, and leaking oil on the tarmac. Chuck is standing in front of a heavily chromed Fat Boy.] Chuck [Sings to the tune of "The Lumberjack Song"]: I'm a Denizen and I'm okay, I flame all night and I ride all day. [Hell's Angels Echo Chorus, surprisingly heavy on tenors]: He's a Denizen and he's okay, He flames all night and he rides all day. I ride my bike; I eat my lunch; I go to the lavat'ry. On Wednesdays I ride Skyline, Running children down with glee. [Chorus]: He rides his bike; He eats his lunch; He goes to the lavat'ry. On Wednesdays he rides Skyline, Running children down with glee. [Chorus refrain]: 'Cause He's a Denizen... I ride real fast, My name is Chuck, It somehow seems to fit. I over-rate the worst bad f*ck, But like a real good sh*t. Oh, I'm a Denizen and I'm okay! I flame all night and I ride all day. [Chorus refrain]: Oh, He's a Denizen... I wear high heels And bright pink shorts, full leathers and a bra. I wish I rode a Harley, just like my dear mama. [Chorus refrain] ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Why you have to be killed. Well, the first thing you have to understand (just in case you managed to read this far, and still not figure it out) is that the DoD started as a joke. And in the words of one Denizen, it intends to remain one. Sometime in the far distant past, a hapless newbie asked: "What does DoD stand for? It's not the Department of Defense is it?" Naturally, a Denizen who had watched the movie "Top Gun" a few times too many rose to the occasion and replied: "That's classified, we could tell you, but then we'd have to kill you." And the rest is history. A variation on the "security" theme is to supply disinformation about what DoD stands for. Notable contributions (and contributers, where known) include: Daughters of Democracy (DoD 23) Doers of Donuts Dancers of Despair (DoD 9) Debasers of Daughters Dickweeds of Denver Driveway of Death Debauchers of Donuts Dumpers of Dirtbikes Note that this is not a comprehensive list, as variations appear to be limited only by the contents of one's imagination or dictionary file. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The rec.moto.photo archive First a bit of history, this all started with Ilana Stern and Chuck Rogers organizing a rec.motorcycles photo album. Many copies were made, and several sets were sent on tours around the world, only to vanish in unknown locations. Then Bruce Tanner decided that it would be appropriate for an electronic medium to have an electronic photo album. Bruce has not only provided the disk space and ftp & e-mail access, but he has taken the time to scan most of the photos that are available from the archive. Not only can you see what all these folks look like, you can also gawk at their motorcycles. A few non-photo files are available from the server too, they include the DoD membership list, the DoD Yellow Pages, the general rec.motorcycles FAQ, and this FAQ posting. Here are a couple of excerpts from from messages Bruce posted about how to use the archive. ********************************************************** Via ftp: cerritos.edu [130.150.200.21] Via e-mail: The address is server@cerritos.edu. The commands are given in the body of the message. The current commands are DIR and SEND, given one per line. The arguments to the commands are VMS style file specifications. For rec.moto.photo the file spec is [DOD]file. For example, you can send: dir [dod] send [dod]bruce_tanner.gif send [dod]dodframe.ps and you'll get back 5 mail messages; a directory listing, 3 uuencoded parts of bruce_tanner.gif, and the dodframe.ps file in ASCII. Oh, wildcards (*) are allowed, but a maximum of 20 mail messages (rounded up to the next whole file) are send. A 'send [dod]*.gif' would send 150 files of 50K each; not a good idea. -- Bruce Tanner (213) 860-2451 x 596 Tanner@Cerritos.EDU Cerritos College Norwalk, CA cerritos!tanner ********************************************************** A couple of comments: Bruce has put quite a bit of effort into this, so why not drop him a note if you find the rec.moto.photo archive useful? Second, since Bruce has provided the server as a favor, it would be kind of you to access it after normal working hours (California time). ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Patches? What patches? You may have heard mention of various DoD trinkets such as patches & pins. And your reaction was probably: "I want!", or "That's sick!", or perhaps "That's sick! I want!" Well, there's some good news and some bad news. The good news is that there's been an amazing variety of DoD-labeled widgets created. The bad news is that there isn't anywhere you can buy any of them. This isn't because of any "exclusivity" attempt, but simply because there is no "DoD store" that keeps a stock. All of the creations have been done by individual Denizens out of their own pockets. The typical procedure is someone says "I'm thinking of having a DoD frammitz made, they'll cost $xx.xx, with $xx.xx going to the AMA museum. Anyone want one?" Then orders are taken, and a batch of frammitzes large enough to cover the pre-paid orders is produced (and quickly consumed). So if you want a DoD doodad, act quickly the next time somebody decides to do one. Or produce one yourself if you see a void that needs filling, after all this is anarchy in action. Here's a possibly incomplete list of known DoD merchandise (and perpetrators). Patches (DoD#11), pins (DoD#99), stickers (DoD#99), motorcycle license plate frames (DoD#216), t-shirts (DoD#99), polo shirts (DoD#122), Zippo lighters (DoD#99) [LtF FtL], belt buckles (DoD#99), and patches (DoD#99) [a second batch was done (and rapidly consumed) by popular demand]. All "profits" have been donated to the American Motorcyclist Association Motorcycle Heritage Museum. As of June 1992, over $5500 dollars has been contributed to the museum fund by the DoD. If you visit the museum, you'll see a large plaque on the Founders' Wall in the name of "Denizens of Doom, USENET, The World", complete with a DoD pin. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Here's a letter from the AMA to the DoD regarding our contributions. ~Newsgroups: rec.motorcycles ~From: Arnie Skurow <arnie@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu> ~Subject: A letter from the Motorcycle Heritage Museum ~Date: Mon, 13 Apr 1992 11:04:58 GMT I received the following letter from Jim Rogers, director of the Museum, the other day. "Dear Arnie and all members of the Denizens of Doom: Congratulations and expressions of gratitude are in order for you and the Denizens of Doom! With your recent donation, the total amount donated is now $5,500. On behalf of the AMHF, please extend my heartfeld gratitude to all the membership of the Denizens. The club's new plaque is presently being prepared. Of course, everyone is invited to come to the museum to see the plaque that will be installed in our Founders Foyer. By the way, I will personally mount a Denizens club pin on the plaque. Again, thank you for all your support, which means so much to the foundation, the museum, and the fulfillment of its goals. Sincerely, Jim Rogers, D.O.D. #0395 Director P.S. Please post on your computer bulletin board." As you all know, even though the letter was addressed to me personally, it was meant for all of you who purchased DoD goodies that made this amount possible. Arnie ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The Rules, Regulations, & Bylaws of the Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club From time to time there is some mention, discussion, or flame about the rules of the DoD. In order to fan the flames, here is the complete text of the rules governing the DoD. Rule #1. There are no rules. Rule #0. Go ride. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Other rec.motorcycles information resources. There are several general rec.motorcycles resources that may or may not have anything to do with the DoD. Most are posted on a regular basis, but they can also be obtained from the cerritos ftp/e-mail server (see the info on the photo archive above). A general rec.motorcycles FAQ is maintained by Dave Williams. Cerritos filenames are FAQn.TXT, where n is currently 1-5. The DoD Yellow Pages, a listing of motorcycle industry vendor phone numbers & addresses, is maintained by bob pakser. Cerritos filename is YELLOW_PAGES_Vnn, where n is the rev. number. The List of the DoD membership is maintained by The Keeper of the List. Cerritos filename is DOD.LIST. This WitDoD FAQ (surprise, surprise!) is maintained by yours truly. Cerritos filename is DOD_FAQ.TXT. Additions, corrections, etc. for any of the above should be aimed at the keepers of the respective texts. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Loki Jorgenson loki@Physics.McGill.CA) has provided an archive site for motorcycle and accessory reviews, here's an excerpt from his periodic announcement. ********************************************************** The Rec.Motorcycles.Reviews Archives (and World Famous Llama Emporium) contains a Veritable Plethora (tm) of bike (and accessories) reviews, written by rec.moto readers based on their own experiences. These invaluable gems of opinion (highly valued for their potential to reduce noise on the list) can be accessed via anonymous FTP, Email server or by personal request: Anonymous FTP: ftp.physics.mcgill.ca (132.206.9.13) under ~ftp/pub/DoD Email archive server: rm-reviews@ftp.physics.mcgill.ca Review submissions/questions: rm-reviews@physics.mcgill.ca NOTE: There is a difference in the addresses for review submission and using the Email archive server (ie. an "ftp."). To get started with the Email server, send an Email message with a line containing only "send help". NOTE: If your return address appears like domain!subdomain!host!username in your mail header, include a line like (or something similar) path username@host.subdomain.domain If you are interested in submitting a review of a bike that you already own(ed), PLEASE DO! There is a template of the format that the reviews are kept in (more or less) available at the archive site . For those who have Internet access but are unsure of how anonymous FTP works, an example script is available on request. ********************************************************** Reviews of any motorcycle related accessory or widget are welcome too. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Updated stats & rec.motorcycles rides info Some of the info cited above in various places tends to be a moving target. Rather than trying to catch every occurence, I'm just sticking the latest info down here. Estimated rec.motorcycles readership: 35K [news.groups] Approximate DoD Membership: 975 [KotL] DoD contributions to the American Motorcyclist Association Motorcycle Heritage Museum. Over $5500 [Arnie] Organized (?) Rides: Summer 1992 saw more organized rides, with the Joust in its third year, and the Ride & Feed going strong, but without the Rollins Pass trip due to the collapse of a tunnel. The East Coast Denizens got together for the Right Coast Ride (RCR), with bikers from as far north as NH, and as far south as FL meeting in the Blueridge Mountains of North Carolina. The Pacific Northwest crew organized the first Great Pacific Northwest Dryside Gather (GPNDG), another successful excuse for riding motorcycles, and seeing the faces behind the names we all have come to know so well. [Thanks to Ed Green for the above addition.] Also worth mentioning are: The first rec.moto.dirt ride, held in the Moab/Canyonlands area of southern Utah. Riders from 5 states showed up, riding everything from monster BMWs to itty-bitty XRs to almost-legal 2-strokes. And though it's not an "official" (as if anything could be official with this crowd) rec.moto event, the vintage motorcycle races in Steamboat Springs, Colorado always provides a good excuse for netters to gather. There's also been the occasional Labor Day gather in Utah. European Denizens have staged some gathers too. (Your ad here, reasonable rates!) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- Blaine Gardner @ Evans & Sutherland 580 Arapeen Drive, SLC, Utah 84108 blgardne@javelin.sim.es.com BIX: blaine_g@bix.com FJ1200 Half of my vehicles and all of my computers are Kickstarted. DoD#46
My friend, David Gordon wants to sell his 1989 Honda. Some of the details of th e car are as follows: Five speed A/c, AM/FM/Cassette stereo ps/pb Rear window defroster EXCELLENT CONDITION Asking 6400.00 OBO.
I'm not sure what you mean by 'saving face' unless you are confusing the FBI with the BATF who are the ones who were in charge of the original search warrant. Independant Negotiators? What was there to negotiate? Any sort of plea bargin has to be brought to the court, the negotiators can't negotiate charges or sentences. FBI negotitators did make a deal for the Dividians to come out. Koresh showed he was not negotiating in good faith and there is no reason to believe independent negotiators would have done any better.
How can a witness tell that someone in a burning truck is dead rather than unconscious? What kind of witnesses? If we are talking about witnesses who were at the accident, or were otherwise directly involved (e.g., paramedics, emergency room doctors, etc.), then they should have been used at the first trial. You don't get a new trial because you screwed up and forgot to call all of your witnesses. If we are talking about new expert witnesses who will offer new interpretations of the data, note that the loser can *ALWAYS* find such witnesses. If this were grounds for a new trial, then the loser could *ALWAYS* get a new trial, and keep doing so until the loser becomes a winner (and then the other side would come up with new expert witnesses).
The Phillies were picked to be in first. Someone replied that the people who picked them were the same people who picked the Mets last year. My reply: Yeah, that may be true, but this IS the Phillies.
Hi, I need some advice from the netland in selecting a sound card. I am about to buy a sound card for my kid. I don't know which one to buy. Which one to select from the following list: - Sound Blaster 16 - Miscrosoft- sound card - Audio Spectrum - Sound Blaster pro - Sound Blaster My allocated budget is around $250. Could some of you know about sound cards help me to select the most appropriate one for my kid ? I have 486-33 Mz OPTI MB. I also have NEC CDROM that I would like to connect to the sound card. Thank you.
