... Of course you never read Arab media, I read Arab, ISRAELI (Jer. Post, and this network is more than enough) and Western (American, French, and British) reports and I can say that if we give Israel -10 and Arabs +10 on the bias scale (of course you can switch the polarities) Israeli newspapers will get either a -9 or -10, American leading newspapers and TV news range from -6 to -10 (yes there are some that are more Israelis than Israelis) The Montreal suburban (a local free newspaper) probably is closer to Kahane's views than some Israeli right wing newspapers, British range from 0 (neutral) to -10, French (that Iknow of, of course) range from +2 (Afro-french magazines) to -10, Arab official media range from 0 to -5 (Egyptian) to +9 in SA. Why no +10? Because they do not want to overdo it and stir people against Israel and therefore against them since they are doing nothing. the average bias of what you read would be probably around -9, while that of the average American would be the same if they do not read or read the new-york times and similar News-makers, and -8 if they read some other RELATIVELY less biased newspapers.
# # # Is there an Xt call to give me my application context? # I am fixing up an X/Motif program, and am trying to use XtAppAddTimeOut, # whose first argument is the app_context. What call can I use # to give me this value? # Use XtDisplayToApplicationContext() to retreive the application context. Patrick L. Mahan --- TGV Window Washer ------------------------------- Mahan@TGV.COM --------- Waking a person unnecessarily should not be considered - Lazarus Long a capital crime. For a first offense, that is From the Notebooks of Lazarus Long Patrick L. Mahan --- TGV Window Washer ------------------------------- Mahan@TGV.COM ---------
I am having a problem with the high order bit of a character being clipped when entered in an xterm window under motif. I have reprogrammed the F1 key to transmit a <ff> <be> character sequence by using the following line in .Xdefaults: ~Ctrl ~Shift ~Alt <Key> F1 : string(0xff) string(0xbe) \n\ I merge in this line with xrdb -merge and then create the new xterm which has the remapped F1 key. The problem that arises is that the application which is recieving input at the time only sees a <7f> <3e> sequence, which is <ff> <be> with the high order bit of each character being filtered or ignored. When I run xev and press the F1 key, I get the correct value showing up in the following two key events: KeyPress event, serial 14, synthetic NO, window 0x2800001, root 0x28, subw 0x0, time 2067815294, (67,80), root:(74,104), state 0x0, keycode 16 (keysym 0xffbe, F1), same_screen YES, XLookupString gives 0 characters: "" KeyRelease event, serial 16, synthetic NO, window 0x2800001, root 0x28, subw 0x0, time 2067815406, (67,80), root:(74,104), state 0x0, keycode 16 (keysym 0xffbe, F1), same_screen YES, XLookupString gives 0 characters: "" Notice that the keysym being transmitted is correct; 0xffbe. But when I use the F1 key while in vi or in a program I wrote to spit back the hex values of keyboard input, I only get <7f> <3e>. Does anyone know why the high order bit is being filtered and what I can do to make sure that the entire 8bits make it through to the final application? Any help is greatly appreciated. Please *email* any responses.
High power assault gun? Why, you must be talking about the 155mm Howitzer. Or did you want to try a 16 incher? Or one of the German railway guns?
Steve, If the Israelis are stupid enough to "allow" a second "Palestinian" state (the first one is Jordon), then you will probably get your wish - and the Israelis would get what's coming to them. However, if the "Palestinians" were to somehow demonstrate that they could govern themselves AND live in peace with their Jewish neighbors, then they would have to give up the idea of Jerusalem as a part of their state - and you would be disappointed. Yashir Koach to this.
Permit me to quote fragments of praetzel@sunee.uwaterloo.ca's article out of context. -Newsgroups: sci.electronics,comp.lsi.cad -From: praetzel@sunee.uwaterloo.ca (Eric Praetzel) -Date: 10 Feb 93 15:46:41 GMT - Currently the XNF format is propierty and I know of at least on person at -a university who was able to get it after signing a non-disclosure agreement. -The Xilinx-bit map format is pretty well top secret. I would love to know it -because then you could make self_modifying_hardware ;-) As it is I had to -reverse eng. the Xilinx tools to dump the bit map to the FPGA because it only -runs on the computer with the hardware key. self-modifying hardware could be *very* interesting -- computers that could write thier own programs (assemblers, compilers) were an immense breakthrough from calculators that couldn't. - I eagerly await a programmable gate array which uses a PD format and does -not cost your first born to program. Till then we will keep on reverse -engineering whatever we can. As it is one company that I worked at has gone -under. FPGAs are what they needed to make their product competitive. They -could not afford them. In the end you could say that they could not afford -to not use them but the management discovered that too late. - - Eric my condolences. i can't even imagine what i could do with self-modifing hardware. i *can* imagine self-modifying software, and even though *all* my teachers say that's BAD, even Worse than GOTO, check out what the experts *used* to say about self-modifying code: (he uses "orders" rather than "opcodes") "On the Principles of Large Scale Computing Machines" by Goldstine and von Neumann, collected in _John von Neumann: Collected Works, Vol. V_ reprinted here with absolutely no permission from anyone. "We plan... to have a full size (40 binary digit) word hold either contain 1 full size number (... equivalent to 12 decimal digits, but we will use the first binary digit to denote the sign) or two (20 binary digit) orders. .... It should be added that this technique of automatic substitutions into orders, i.e. the machine's ability to modify its own orders (under the control of other ones among its orders) is absolutely necessary for a flexible code. Thus, if part of the memory is used as a "function table", then "looking up" a value of that function for a value of the variable which is obtained in the course of the computation requires that the machine itself should modify, or rather make up, the reference to the memory in the order which controls this "looking up", and the machine can only make this modification after it has already calculated the value of the variable in question. On the other hand, this ability of the machine to modify its own orders is one of the things which makes coding the non-trivial operation which we have to view it as." david cary, tenor, e- and comp. engineering (finger caryd@a.cs.okstate.edu). 227 S. 163 E. Ave, Tulsa, OK 74108-3310, USA, Sol 3, Universe v. 1.2
I am posting the following for my brother. Please post your replies or send him email to his address at the end of his message. Thank you. ____________________________________________________________________ My supervisor is looking for a image analysis software for MS DOS. We need something to measure lengths and areas on micrographs. Sometime in the future, we may expand to do some densitometry for gels, etc. We've found lots of ads and info for the Jandel Scientific products: SigmaScan and Java. But we have not been able to find any competing products. We would appreciate any comments on these products and suggestions / comments on other products we should consider. Thanks. Donald
Another fish to check out is Richard Rast -- he works for Lockheed Missiles, but is on-site at NASA Johnson. Nick Johnson at Kaman Sciences in Colo. Spgs and his friend, Darren McKnight at Kaman in Alexandria, VA. Good luck. R. Landis
I'd like to thank everyone who took the time to respond to my post about fighting my ticket. Many of you wrote to say that you have successfully fought and won your case in court. Others lost due to the cop outright lying to the judge about the circumstances surrounding your ticket, while one fellow lost because the judge just didn't appear to be in the mood for such foolishness. Several of you suggested that I obtain a book called "Fight Your Ticket". The general theme from those who said "go for it", was to be prepared. I should do as much research as possible, go back and review the scene, transcribe what happened to tape or paper, use any witnesses that may have been around, have a list of questions to ask the cop and/or the judge, and to be positive and assertive. I am innocent until proven guilty! <gulp> A few people suggested trying to get my court date changed, as this might trip up the arresting officer, he may not show up if the date is on his day off or if he feels/knows that he doesn't have a chance to win against you. One individual stated that an Officer could be an Expert Witness, and if he says I was speeding, then by damn, I was speeding. Another says that I must have been paced or clocked with a radar gun. Lots of good suggestions and ideas from you all. I'll let you know what happens after the big day! /-----------------------------------------------------------------------------\
Check out the DIABETIC mailing list -- a knowledgable, helpful, friendly, voluminous bunch. Send email to LISTSERV@PCCVM.BITNET, with this line in the body: SUBSCRIBE DIABETIC <your name here> Also, the vote for misc.health.diabetes, a newsgroup for general discussion of diabetes, is currently underway, and will close on 29 April. From the 2nd CFV, posted to news.announce.newgroups, news.groups, and sci.med, message <1q1jshINN4v1@rodan.UU.NET>:
I am looking at buying a low cost (< $500) scope for general purpose use. Any recommendations? Is this info in a faq somewhere? Any pointers appreciated. Thanks, -Gerard.
If people are going to do this, I really wish they would tell me first. I'd be happy to go over the insert (in the PDR) with them and explain everything. All too many patients read the insert and panic and then on the next visit sheepishly admit they were afraid to take the drug and we are starting over again at square one. Some of them probably didn't even come back for followup because they didn't want to admit they wouldn't take the drug or thought I was trying to kill them or something. What people don't understand about the inserts is that they report every adverse side effect ever reported, without substantiating that the drug was responsible. The insert is a legal document to slough liability from the manufacturer to the physician if something was to happen. If patients want to have the most useful and reliable information on a drug they would be so much better off getting hold of one of the AMA drug evaluation books or something similar that is much more scientific. There are very few drugs that someone hasn't reported a death from taking. Patients don't realize that and don't usually appreciate the risks to themselves properly. I'm sure Herman is going to "go ballistic", but so be it. Another problem is that probably most drugs have been reported to cause impotence. Half the males who read that will falsely assume it could permanently cause them to lose sexual function and so will refuse to take any drug like that. This can be a real problem for PDR readers. There needs to be some way of providing patients with tools geared to them that allow them to get the information they need. I am involved in a research project to do that, with migraine as the domain. It involves a computer system that will provide answers to questions about migraine as well as the therapy prescribed for the patient. For common illnesses, such as migraine and hypertension, this may help quite a bit. The patient could spend as much time as needed with the computer and this would then not burden the physician. Clearly, physicians in large part fail to answer all the questions patients have, as is demonstrated over and over here on the net where we get asked things that the patients should have found out from their physician but didn't. Why they didn't isn't always the physician's fault either. Sometimes the patients are afraid to ask. They won't be as afraid to ask the system, we hope. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
1) How was this testing done, and how many times? (Calibrated speedometer?) 2) It's not the "some cases" that worry me, it's the "other cases" :-)
# Well said Mr. Beyer :) He-he. The great humanist speaks. One has to read Mr. Salah's posters, in which he decribes Jews as "sons of pigs and monkeys", keeps promising the "final battle" between Muslims and Jews (in which the stons and the trees will "cry for the Muslims to come and kill the Jews hiding behind them"), makes jokes about Jews dying from heart attacks etc, to realize his objective stance on the matters involved.
This is probably a stupid question but as I am new to the motorcycle scene I don't really know anything about it. What is DoD? Thanks,
Ah yes, I see a few liberal weenies have come out of the woodwork to defend the burning of the children. Probably drooled all over themselves while watching the TV coverage. Probably had a few like that in Nazi Germany, as well.
As an additional data point, I have run Castrol 20W50 exclusively in the following cars: 75 Rabbit, 78 Scirocco, 76 Rabbit, 78 Bus, 70 Beetle, 76 Bus, 86 Jetta GLI. I've never had an oil-related problem. Disclaimer: It gets mighty hot down here.
Carl, it is not "placebo effect" if as hypothesised the sensory response to MSG's effect on flavor is responsible for the MSG reaction.
I will again *repeat* my statement: 1) I *do not* condone these *indiscriminate* Israeli acts (nor have I *ever*, 2) If the villagers do not know who these "guerillas" are (which you stated earlier), how do you expect the Israelis to know? It is **very** difficult to "identify" who they are (this *is why* the "guerillas" prefer to lose themselves in the general population by dressing the same, acting the same, etc.). I agree; but, because Lebanon was either unwilling or unable to stop these attacks from its territory should Israel simply sit quietly and accept its situation? Israel asked the Lebanese government over and over to control this "third party state" within Lebanese territory and the attacks kept occuring. At **what point** does Israel (or ANY state) have the right to do something ITSELF to stop such attacks? Never? It is also the responsibility of *any* state to NOT ALLOW *any* outside party to use its territory for attacks on a neighboring state. If 1) Angola had the power, and 2) South Africa refused (or couldn't) stop anti-Angolan guerillas based on SA soil from attacking Angola, and 3) South Africa refused to have UN troops stationed on its territory between it and Angola, would Angola be justified in entering SA? If not, are you saying that Angola HAD to accept the situation, do NOTHING and absorb the attacks? I refered above *at all times* to the Palestinian attacks on Israel from Lebanese soil, NOT to Lebanese attacks on Israel. One hopes that a Lebanese government will be strong enough to patrol its border but there is NO reason to believe it will be any stronger. WHAT HAS CHANGED is that the PLO was largely *driven out* of Lebanon (not by the Lebanese, not by Syria) and THAT is by far the most important making it EASIER to control future Palestinian attacks from Lebanese soil. That **change** was brought about by Israeli action; the PLO would *never* have been ejected by Lebanese, Arab state or UN actions. I fully recognize that the Lebanese do NOT WANT to be "used" by EITHER side, and have been (and continue to be). But the most fundamental issue is that if a state cannot control its borders and make REAL efforts to do so, it should expect others to do it for them. Hopefully that "other" will be the UN but it is (as we see in its cowardice regarding Bosnia) weak.
: >After agreeing to terms I signed the contract and drove home in my new : >car. Later that same night I noticed that the terms in the were : >different from the terms I had agreed to. (I made the stupid mistake : >of not checking everything on the contract). This all happened last : >Saturday. : > : >I have heard that there is a "cooling-off" law allowing me three days : >to reconsider the contract. Is this true? Can anyone point me to the : >law? The transaction happened at the dealership, if it matters. : : This cooling off period applies only in certain situations - lik ewhen : you are solicited at home. I also think the cooling off period ends : if you actually accept the merchandise. : : If this were not the case, any car buyer would have the right to return : a slightly used, highly devalued, car 2 days after buying it. Yeah - : that's the trick - if I want to buy a new car, I'd have a firend buy : & return one, then go in and negotiate a better deal on a pre-owned : used car. However, if you agree some terms, and then, when about to sign, the dealer slips you a contract with different terms, and leads you to believe that it embodies the terms you verbally agreed to, that is fraud. There is no 3 day limit on restitution for fraud. You may have to sue (and win) to get out of this. You will almost certainly have to threaten to sue. --
They sure make it sound like that. Even a simpleton knows a baseball bat is considered a deadly weapon. If one cannot run away (e.g. old, infirm, even middle-aged if the assailant is younger), a handgun is the most effective means of defense. You won't even have to fire a shot 98% of the time. Any real streetfighter (and there are LOTS of them), with or without a knife, will kick the living sh** out of most people "trained in unarmed self defense". For the majority of people, a gun is the most effective form of self defense.
^^^^^ What an incrediblt sexist remark! Come now, Mike, what ever possessed you to make such a un-PC remark? I hope all women out there reading this are as incensed as I am. Remember, WOMAN ARE JUST AS GOOD AS MEN!!!! Women stand up for your right to be just as stupid as men. In fact, insist on every oppurtunity to be even more stupid than men! You've got the right, use it! Hey, it's a slow afternoon and I really don't want to get back to that report...;) BTW: mega-smileys for the humor impaired...
condom during wone of the 500 times i had to go over my accident i was asked if i was wearing "protection" my responces was "yes i was wearing a condom"
Does anybody out there have one of those food dehydrators I've been seeing all over late-night TV recently? I was wondering if they use forced air, heat, or both. If there's heat involved, anybody know what temperature they run at? My wife would like one and I'm not inclined to pay >$100.00 for a box, a fan and a heater. Seems to me you should be able to throw a dehydrator together for just a few bucks. Heck, the technology is only what? 1,000 years old?
Kerry-- I'm guessing a little at this, because it's been a few years since I saw the info, but you will probably want to look at Air Defense Artillery as a specialty, or possibly Signals. The kind of thing you're looking for is SDI-type assignments, but it'll be pretty prosaic stuff. Things like hard-kill ATBM missiles, some of the COBRA rigs -- that kind of thing. Hope that gives you some ideas on where to look, though.
hello testing
When the PLO moved into Lebanon and became, in parts of Lebanon, an Occupying Power itself, these same practices were common against non-Palestinean and Palestinean alike. They are simply Standard Operating Procedures among Palestineans and have been for a very long time. In fact, the greatest bloodbath of Palestineans will happen when they get self-rule. Can you possibly deny this? When the PLO is the Occupier, who are you NOW going to blame?
I don't know if there's a corresponding patch for Solaris 2.1, but this sounds like the following bug which is supposedly fixed in 100492-06, the Solaris 1.x olwm Jumbo patch: 1108642 - window system can hang in an errant pointer grab Actually, I suspect that the OW 3.1 problem may be different, since the README file says that this patch is just a SunOS 4.x version of the OW 3.1 olwm (but maybe that line came from an earlier version of the patch, and they forgot to take it out in the -06 version). -- Barry Margolin System Manager, Thinking Machines Corp.
Sounds like a job for a universal time reciever. I don't know the logisitics of the situation, but if you could just place a reciever in snow and place the oscillator in a nice lab somewhere else, your problems should be solved. Just a suggestion.
Before the S4 became the S4 it was called the 200 turbo quattro 20v. This model did come in a wagon, a very quick wagon. Very rare also.
Now, my ego with regards to my shifting ability is as big as anyone else's, but I just ordered my first car with an auto trans. I wasn't planning on it; but after driving a few I was convinced: Things have changed since the days of "Slip 'n' Slide Withe Powerglide". They shift *better* than I do, there's no clutch to wear out (Honda wanted $800 for my 4WD wagon last year!- got it done for $500), it only costs about 5% in gas milage on the highway and it makes it easier to concentrate on all the radios in my car ;-) (Oddly enough, while two of my best friends- both in the auto industry here in the Motor City- have switched wholeheartedly to autos, their wives *insist* on manual. Shift envy?) Braggadocio aside, given today's technology and the warranties they're handing out the auto trans seemed like an excellent choice. Call me a convert.
If "ownership" were rightly based on "worthiness" there wouldn't be any owners. What is your point? As I understand it, Israel's "claim" on Jerusalem is based on 1) possession, and 2) the absolutely CENTRAL (not second, not third) role it plays in jewish identity.
I'm just guessing here, but I'd guess that X11R5 expects the CG3 to have 1152x900 resolution, and the version of the CG3 in the SPARCclassic is 1024x768. --
I live at sea-level, and am called-upon to travel to high-altitude cities quite frequently, on business. The cities in question are at 7000 to 9000 feet of altitude. One of them especially is very polluted... Often I feel faint the first two or three days. I feel lightheaded, and my heart seems to pound a lot more than at sea-level. Also, it is very dry in these cities, so I will tend to drink a lot of water, and keep away from dehydrating drinks, such as those containing caffeine or alcohol. Thing is, I still have symptoms. How can I ensure that my short trips there (no, I don't usually have a week to acclimatize) are as comfortable as possible? Is there something else that I could do? A long time ago (possibly two years ago) there was a discussion here about altitude adjustment. Has anyone saved the messages? Many thanks,
Did they or did they not sustain Miller's conviction? I don't have the text of the case handy. Yes, shotguns had been used in WWI, the Spanish-American War, and the US Civil War. That was not in question. The possession of a sawed-off shotgun was, i.e., a weapon altered to improve concealibility. You are free to produce evidence that I'm not willing to abide with all the implications of this. Just because I don't whole-heartedly endorse the NRA position does not mean that I oppose the RKBA. This attitude is what makes the NRA unpopular.
The problem was that SunPost411Ld was not defined.
That's an interesting statement. There's quite a difference between Hollywood's "Old West" and the real one. Yes, there were drunks, saloons, mining camps, and thugs. However, as McGrath showed, the thugs preyed almost exclusively on one another. McGrath claims that this was due to the fact that no one much cared if someone who insisted on getting into a fight got his way, even if he lost, while they really did care when thugs preyed on others. We haven't figured out that those distinctions don't actually work. Machine guns have been strictly regulated since 1934. Said regulation is both perfect (legally owned machine guns aren't ever used criminally) and a complete waste of time (the criminal use of machine guns hasn't change at all). The result - we're now arguing about guns that LOOK like machine guns, but are no different than other guns. -andy
Well Sweden and Australia, and lord knows wherever else used to drive on the "wrong" side of the road, so the export market might have been larger then than just the UK. By the 1920s, there was a very active "good roads" movement, which had its origins actually in the 1890s during the bicycle craze, picked up steam in the teens (witness the Linclon Highway Association, 1912 or so, and the US highway support act (real name: something different) in 1916 that first pledged federal aid to states and counties to build decent roads. Also, the experience of widespread use of trucks for domestic transport during WW 1 convinced the government that good raods were crucial to our national defense. Anyway, by the 20s there were plenty of good roads, at least around urban areas, and they were rapidly expanding into the countryside. This was the era, after all, of the first auto touring fad, the motel, the auto camp ground, etc. Two good books on the subject spring to mind - Warren Belasco "America on the Road" (title may not be exact - author is) and another called "The Devil Wagon in God's Country" author I forget. Also, any of John Flink's or John Bell Rae's auto histories. As to placement of the steering wheel being arbitrary, by the early teens there were virtually no American cars that did not have the wheel on the left. In the early days, cars had the wheel on the left, on the right, and even in the middle, as well as sometimes having a tiller instead of a wheel. This was standardized fairly early on, though I don't know why. Dan dh3q@andrew.cmu.edu Carnegie Mellon University Applied History
I have a problem when I'm using PostScript. When I am working local on a SUN SPARCstaton IPC the PostScript works good, but when I connect to the SUN from a X-terminal I just get error messages that the PostScript cannot connect to the news-display. Why doesn't PostScript work on an X-terminal? Is there any way to make it work?
: > until...and more Saturn retailers are built(like 2 in the same city), : ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ : ...most medium and large cities have...a small handful of Saturn dealers now Sacramento has two Saturn dealerships. : Mihir Shah
Reading from a Amoco Performance Products data sheet, their ERL-1906 resin with T40 carbon fiber reinforcement has a compressive strength of 280,000 psi. It has a density of 0.058 lb/cu in, therefore the theoretical height for a constant section column that can just support itself is 4.8 million inches, or 400,000 ft, or 75 Statute miles. Now, a real structure will have horizontal bracing (either a truss type, or guy wires, or both) and will be used below the crush strength. Let us assume that we will operate at 40% of the theoretical strength. This gives a working height of 30 miles for a constant section column. A constant section column is not the limit on how high you can build something if you allow a tapering of the cross section as you go up. For example, let us say you have a 280,000 pound load to support at the top of the tower (for simplicity in calculation). This requires 2.5 square inches of column cross sectional area to support the weight. The mile of structure below the payload will itself weigh 9,200 lb, so at 1 mile below the payload, the total load is now 289,200 lb, a 3.3% increase. The next mile of structure must be 3.3% thicker in cross section to support the top mile of tower plus the payload. Each mile of structure must increase in area by the same ratio all the way to the bottom. We can see from this that there is no theoretical limit on area, although there will be practical limits based on how much composites we can afford to by at $40/lb, and how much load you need to support on the ground (for which you need a foundation that the bedrock can support. Let us arbitrarily choose $1 billion as the limit in costruction cost. With this we can afford perhaps 10,000,000 lb of composites, assuming our finished structure costs $100/lb. The $40/lb figure is just for materials cost. Then we have a tower/payload mass ratio of 35.7:1. At a 3.3% mass ratio per mile, the tower height becomes 111 miles. This is clearly above the significant atmosphere. A rocket launched from the top of the tower will still have to provide orbital velocity, but atmospheric drag and g-losses will be almost eliminated. G-losses are the component of rocket thrust in the vertical direction to counter gravity, but which do not contribute to horizontal orbital velocity. Thus they represent wasted thrust. Together with drag, rockets starting from the ground have a 15% velocity penalty to contend with. This analysis is simplified, in that it does not consider wind loads. These will require more structural support over the first 15 miles of height. Above that, the air pressure drops to a low enough value for it not to be a big factor. Dani Eder
For those of you interested, I just finished talking with a representative of Senator Bob Krueger's reelection campaign about his position on the RTKBA. Krueger was appointed by the Democratic Governor of Texas to complete Lloyd Bentsen's unexpired term. The representative said that Senator Krueger did not have a position and would only comment on specific legislation that was pending. No comment was available on the various versions of the Brady Bill.
When I run our RS6000's "info" utility through a remote login shell (rlogin) from my Sun Sparc 1+, I can no longer type lower case in any of info's window prompt's. I thought the prob. may have been due to my Sun window mgr. (Openlook) being incompatible with the AIX Motif application but I tried it under TVTWM also. Same result. So this is presumably an X11 key definition problem between workstations - but my system admins. feign ignorance. What do I need to do the be able to type lower case into this remote AIX motif app. from within my local Openlook window manager? --
All humans suffered emotionally, some Jews and many others suffered physically. It is sad that people like you are so blinded by emotions that they can't see the facts. Thanks for calling me names, it only assures me of what kind of ignorant people I am dealing with. I included your letter since I thought it demonstrated my point more than anything I could write.
Source: "World Alive, A Personal Story" by Robert Dunn. Crown Publishers, Inc., New York (1952). (Memoirs of an American officer who witnessed the Armenian genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 360. "At length all shooting petered out. I got on my horse and rode down toward Djul. It burned still but little flame showed now. The way was steep and tough, through dense scrub. Finally on flatter ground I came out suddenly, through alders, on smoldering houses. Across trampled wheat my brothers-in- arms were leading off animals, several calves and a lamb." p. 361 (fourth paragraph). "Corpses came next, the first a pretty child with straight black hair, large eyes. She looked about twelve years old. She lay in some stubble where meal lay scattered from the sack she'd been toting. The bayonet had gone through her back, I judged, for blood around was scant. Between the breasts one clot, too small for a bullet wound, crusted her homespun dress. The next was a boy of ten or less, in rawhide jacket and knee-pants. He lay face down in the path by several huts. One arm reached out to the pewter bowl he'd carried, now upset upon its dough. Steel had jabbed just below his neck, into the spine. There were grownups, too, I saw as I led the sorrel around. Djul was empty of the living till I looked up to see beside me Dro's German-speaking colonel. He said all Tartars who had not escaped were dead." Serdar Argic
betz@gozer.idbsu.edu The FBI and Koresh were calling the shots. And there were very sane reasons for keeping the children, if they let them go, the parents would NEVER see them again. That is not an easy choice, in spite of you cold attitude about it. I am a constitution worshiper. You quite obviously eat anything the authorities feed you, without doubt, which makes you no different that a Koresh worshiper you If you do not believe this, you are truly naive. It is not only possible, it is easy. I worked in the broadcast profession, at a network station, in the late 70s, I know what I'm saying here. Embarrasing footage is easy to get, add a little sinister music, and the right voice-over, and I'll have you mother agreeing to commit you. The news shows were looking for excerpts which backed their position. Do you think they would show excerpts which disproved their points? The reports of multi-starts came solely from the FBI. Anyone observing the fire from the available video would be hard pressed to see more than one point of fire. Which spread across the compound as a uniform rate. it No reported has ever sued the government for such a situation. They know the dangers. Remember, the BATF invited the initial coverage. And how about a simple, remote-controlled, camera or two? There were ways to provide media access. The FBI obviously just didn't want any. I can find several. Tear gas and smoke making it impossible to remove the barricades. Flames blocking exits to the saferooms. Perhaps the gun shots were from the FBI, keeping them pinned in? Who knows? Jim -- jmd@handheld.com
Elevated levels of Glu and Asp in the blood are able to bypass the Blood-brain barrier through the circumventricular organs (or CVO), in particular the adeno and neurohypophysis (pituitary gland) areas. The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, and the median eminence regions are particularly effected. CVO areas are not subject to the blood-brain barrier. These areas control the release of gonadotropin, which controls the release and flux of steroids governing development, especially sexual development. Changes in adult rats, which are less sensitive to Glu than humans, have been observed: after ingesting Glu, on a chronic basis, cycles of several steroids are disrupted. Blood levels of somatostatin are significantly reduced, and cyclic release of steroids becomes flattened.
Every bit as fast as a dirtbike, in the right terrain. And we eat flies, thank you. then why does it go down? So do most helmetless motorcyclists. helmetless != goggleless
That shows how much you know about anything. The brakes on the SHO are very different - 9 inch (or 9.5? I forget) discs all around, vented in front. The normal Taurus setup is (smaller) discs front, drums rear. Your argument still boils down to "An SHO shouldn't be driven fast because I, Jim Frost, say it isn't designed to go fast." Pffffftttttt. Damn straight. You're one of those people who makes stuff up and tries to pawn it off as God's own truth. If I want lies I can go listen to television.
+>The Golan Heights is a serious security problem, and Israel obviously +>will have to keep part of it and give up part of it. (One should +>remember that the Golan Heights had been part of the area that was to +>be in Britain's Palestine Mandate, slated to become part of the Jewish +>state, until Britain traded it to France for other considerations. In +>other words, it is an historical accident that it was ever part of +>Syria.) The Palestine mandate had no borders before the borders were negotiated and drawn. The most the Golan may have been is on the list of what territories Britian would have liked to see in the palestine mandate. Until the mandates came into existance, there were no defined boundaries between any of the various territories in the region.
The Fujitsu 2322 uses what is known as an 'SMD' interface (Storage Module Device?). A lot of older minis used it. Sun still does on their server models. There are several different speeds of SMD, and I think that the Fuji drive you have is rated at about 24 Mb/sec (thats megabits). There used to be several companies that made couplers for the PC (Interphase in Texas being one), but I think that the market pretty much has dried up. Controllers for this type of drive are readily available for VME buses though. Rumor has it that there is a SMD to SCSI adapter available, but I think that it was designed for slower SMD devices. In other words, if you have a PC or Mac, that drive is pretty much dogmeat. Cheers, Corwin
I'm plannig to trade my Sentra SE-R in with a NX2000. My car has 11,500 miles on it and is a '92 model. The NX2000 the dealer is selling is a '91 model with 23,000miles on it. It has a T-Bar Roof, a/c, and an airbag, which my Sentra does not have. They are asking for $1500. Is that a fair deal? The only thing I noticed about the NX2000 is that the engine did not seem to have as much torque as my Sentra which has the same identical engine. I presume that the last lady owner did not really push the engine to it's limits occassionaly while I did that on mine, thuis the NX2000's engine is a little "tight." So, if I buy the NX2000 and "excercise" it well, should that slight power problem go away? Any advice on this will be much appreciated. Thanks. Please reply via e-mail if possible. -- A motion picture major at the Brooks Institute of Photography, CA Santa Barbara and a foreign student from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
I have had good luck with my Ranger and Yokohama 371 S+M tires. The tires have been wearing well and even the few times i have hauled heavy loads they have done well.
Xcursor version 4.1 is now on export as xcursor4.1.tar.Z. I've added a new option to determine if a requested cursor size is OK. Of course, your server may lie!
From the "JPL Universe" April 23, 1993 VLBI project meets with international space agencies
JB> RR> "I don't doubt that the placebo effect is alive and well with JB> RR> EVERY medical modality - estimated by some to be around 20+%, JB> RR> but why would it be higher with alternative versus conventional JB> RR> medicine?" JB> JB> Because most the the time, closer to 90% in my experience, there is no JB> substance to the 'alternative' intervention beyond the good intentions of the JB> practitioner, which in itself is quite therapeutic. [.......] JB> JB> John Badanes, DC, CA JB> romdas@uclink.berkeley.edu Well, if that's the case in YOUR practice, I have a hard time figuring out how you even managed to make it into the bottom half of your class, or did you create your diplomas with crayons? If someone runs a medical practice with only a 10% success rate, they either tackle problems for which they are not qualified to treat, or they have no conscience and are only in business for fraudulent purposes. OTOH, who are we kidding, the New England Medical Journal in 1984 ran the heading: "Ninety Percent of Diseases are not Treatable by Drugs or Surgery," which has been echoed by several other reports. No wonder MDs are not amused with alternative medicine, since the 20% magic of the "placebo effect" would award alternative practitioners twice the success rate of conventional medicine... --Ron--
Now, I am jumping into the middle of this thread so I may not know what y'all been talking about, but I have a few comments: There are a number of other factors that are very important, the three biggest being air velocity, air momentum and shock waves. Velocity stacks have been used for years and are now being used inside of stock airboxes on a number of bikes. At a tuned engine rpm, the stacks can greatly increase the speed, and thus momentum of the air rushing in. Air momentum is critical in getting good air intake: the momentum of the air stack outside the combustion chamber will force its way inside long after the piston has begun its compressive up-stroke. Shock waves are used to induce air intake and to prevent fresh air from escaping out the exzhaust ports. Shock waves are the product of expansion chambers or any other means of presenting a 'wall' (opening or closing) to the air in motion. Beyond this I am lost in the mystery of how they design for shock waves.
Yo' Joe, why don't you post what you really think? If there are any rational BMWMOA folks left out there, may the rest of us please have a brief summary of the current state of affairs in your esteemed organization, together with an historical outline of how you got to the above contretemps? Points will be deducted for shouting or bulging veins in the temple area.
I ONLY Just prevented myself from diving in on this one.....
Interesting. Does she know you have placed this info request on the net for the world to see? If not, how do you think she would react if she found out? Why would you accept the advice of unknown entities rather than a counselor? See the counselor.
I'm considering switching to Geico insurance, but have heard that they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim. I was worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim. I have also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. I'm interestend in determining whether or not these things are true. Has anyone out there with Geico made a claim? I'd be interested in hearing whether or not you were satisfied with the service and whether you then had trouble renewing your policy.
: Frank Crary posted: : : Sure, but the difference in per-capita crime rates predates the : : gun control laws: The homicide rate in England was a tenth that : : of America, back when anyone in England could buy a gun without : : any paperwork at all. : Steve Manes asks: : > Got a citation for this? : Colin Greenwood from Scotland Yard did a study that showed that gun : control has had no effect on crime or murder rates in the UK. His book, : _Firearms_Controls_, has been published in London by Keegan Paul (name : may be misspelled). Others dispute that, like Richard Hofstadter, <America As A Gun Culture>, and Newton and Zimring's <Firearms and Violence in American Life>. But, again, statistics between too dissimilar cultures are difficult to quantify. I don't know how anyone can state that gun control could have NO effect on homicide rates. There were over 250 >accidental< handgun homicides in America in 1990, most with licensed weapons. More American children accidentally shot other children last year (15) than all the handgun homicides in Great Britain. (Source: National Safety Council. Please... no dictionary arguments about RATES vs TOTAL NUMBERS, okay? They're offered for emphasis, not comparison). If Mr. Greenwood believes that Brits are much too sober and coordinated to make such mistakes I'd like to introduce him to my friend, Amanda from Brighton. I used to have some pretty nice crystal in my place until she moved in. I've gotten used to the snide comments from guests about the clown motif on my rubber wine glasses.
I have a BACK MACHINE and have had one since January. While I have not found it to be a panacea for my back pain, I think it has helped somewhat. It MAINLY acts to stretch muscles in the back and prevent spasms associated with pain. I am taking less pain medication than I was previously. The folks at BACK TECHNOLOGIES are VERY reluctant to honor their return policy. They extended my "warranty" period rather than allow me to return the machine when, after the first month or so, I was not thrilled with it. They encouraged me to continue to use it, abeit less vigourously. Like I said, I can't say it is a cure-all, but it keeps me stretched out and I am in less pain.
: The Swiss population is (and well was) far larger than that. I think : your question should be, "...losing sleep over a million expert : riflemen?" Certainly he could have conquered Switzerland, but : a million armed militiamen (especially in a mountainous area, : where tanks' effectiveness is limited) would have made it a : real pain. The question a conqueror would ask, is "is it worth : the trouble?" The more difficult an invasion is, the more likely : the answer would be "no." Certainly a million riflemen (as : opposed to a professional army of only ten or twenty thousand, the : best a country the size of Switzerland could support), makes : invasions more difficult. Hitler invaded Yugoslavia and occupied it. The mountainous portions were sometimes patrolled by the wermacht, but they were certainly not in control. There were two major native factions opposing each other and the germans, It was basically useless to the germans (no production) and a drain on their resources (a armored division and a couple of infantry divisions) Which if my memory is correct, were kind of stuck there up until the allies accepted their surrender. (I think that the allies also let the germans keep some of their weapons for self defense unitil they were able to get to the lowlands, away from the resistance factions. This is from memory, and it is unreliable.
I'm surprised nobody mentioned that twitching of the eyelid can be a symptom of an infection, especially if it also itches or stings. (It happened to me, and antibiotic eyedrops cleared it up nicely.)
MJM>HI, I was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on twwo related MJM>subjects. I am currently learning about AM/FM receivers and recieving MJM>circuits. I understand a lot of things ,but a few things I am confused MJM>abuot. The first is the MIXER, to mix the RF and local oscillator MJM>frequencies to make the IF. Does anyone have any cicruit diagrams (as MJM>simple as possible) for this kind of mixer? I have come across a MJM>MC-SBL mixer chip But I have not been able to find it in any catalogs MJM>(ACTIVE,etc...) MJM>Along the same note, are there any SIMPLE fm receiver circuits anyone MJM>may have stashed away somewhere and they couold let me see?. MJM>P.S. any REALLY GOOD BOOKS on AM/FM theory ALONG WITH DETAILED MJM>ELECTRICAL DIAGRAMS would help a lot. MJM>I have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of MJM>circuit books with no theory, but one without the other does not help. Digi-key has the NE-622 chip which has a local oscillator and mixer on one chip. For a great combination of theory with actual circuits, the best reference for non-engineers is probably the Radio Amateur's Handbook from the ARRL. Most library's have it in the reference section. * SLMR 2.1 * If ignorance is bliss, why aren't there more happy folk?
A friend of mine is cnsidering buying a new car, and is considering the Subaru Impreza or the Nissan Altima right now. Which of these two cars would you recommend. We definately want an airbag and ABS, and room for tall people and long legs. If you have other suggestions for cars under $13K after dealing I'd be interested in you opinions as well. PLEASE send replies to sem1@postoffice.mail.cornell.edu, no tthis address.
I agree. Sad, but true. Please name one. .... Upon which our Bill of Rights is based. Some delusion. If this were not true in practice, then certain unethical politicians would not be passing gun control laws. Politicians are generally whores to public opinion. This does NOT mean the the public is either well informed or correct. As for the stats, anyone can support anything with the right stats. The "right" stats, from what I've seen, are sometimes even used to support conflicting sides of the same issue. Used to own firearms? While armed insurrection, as the FF's of the Const. may have envisioned seems to me a somewhat fanatical approach to avoiding this, Political protest is still an option at this point. I agree that it's argueably not enough and/or too late. If all else fails, there's always PVC pipe and cosmoline. -- Chris Miller chris@MorningStar.Com
Is there aything available for X similar to QuicKeys for the Macintosh -- something that will allow me to store and playback sequences of keystrokes, menu selections, and mouse actions - directing them towards another application? If so, could someone send me information on its availability -- and if not, how hard do we think it might be to send input to other X applications and, hopefully, deal with their responses appropriately? (If an application is going to take a few seconds to process I probably have to wait for it to complete before sending another command.) thanks,
The vote to create the proposed group, Sci.life-extension, was affirmative. Yes votes: 237. No votes: 28. What follows is a list of the people who voted, by vote ("no" or "yes"). Here are the people who voted NO: bailey@utpapa.ph.utexas.edu (Ed Bailey) barkdoll@lepomis.psych.upenn.edu (Edwin Barkdoll) msb@sq.com (Mark Brader) carr@acsu.buffalo.edu (Dave Carr) desj@ccr-p.ida.org (David desJardins) jbh@Anat.UMSMed.Edu (James B. Hutchins) rsk@gynko.circ.upenn.edu (Rich Kulawiec) stu@valinor.mythical.com (Stu Labovitz) lau@ai.sri.com (Stephen Lau) plebrun@minf8.vub.ac.be (Philippe Lebrun) jmaynard@nyx.cs.du.edu (Jay Maynard) emcguire@intellection.com (Ed McGuire) rick@crick.ssctr.bcm.tmc.edu (Richard H. Miller) smarry@zooid.guild.org (Marc Moorcroft) dmosher@nyx.cs.du.edu (David Mosher) ejo@kaja.gi.alaska.edu (Eric J. Olson) hmpetro@mosaic.uncc.edu (Herbert M Petro) smith-una@YALE.EDU (Una Smith) mmt@RedBrick.COM (Maxime Taksar KC6ZPS) urlichs@smurf.sub.org (Matthias Urlichs) ac999266@umbc.edu (a Francis Uy) werner@SOE.Berkeley.Edu (John Werner) wick@netcom.com (Potter Wickware) ggw@wolves.Durham.NC.US (Gregory G. Woodbury) D.W.Wright@bnr.co.uk (D. Wright) yarvin-norman@CS.YALE.EDU (Norman Yarvin) ask@cblph.att.com spm2d@opal.cs.virginia.edu Here are the people who voted YES: FSSPR@ACAD3.ALASKA.EDU (Hardcore Alaskan) kalex@eecs.umich.edu (Ken Alexander) ph600fht@sdcc14.UCSD.EDU (Alex Aumann) franklin.balluff@Syntex.Com (Franklin Balluff) barash@umbc.edu (Mr. Steven Barash) build@alan.b30.ingr.com (Alan Barksdale (build)) lion@TheRat.Kludge.COM (John H. Barlow) pbarto@UCENG.UC.EDU (Paul Barto) ryan.bayne@canrem.com (Ryan Bayne) mignon@shannon.Jpl.Nasa.Gov (Mignon Belongie) beaudot@tirf.grenet.fr (william Beaudot) lavb@lise.unit.no (Olav Benum) ross@bryson.demon.co.uk (Ross Beresford) ben.best@canrem.com (Ben Best) levi@happy-man.com (Levi Bitansky) jsb30@dagda.Eng.Sun.COM (James Blomgren) gbloom@nyx.cs.du.edu (Gregory Bloom) mbrader@netcom.com (Mark Brader) ebrandt@jarthur.Claremont.EDU (Eli Brandt) doom@leland.stanford.edu (Joseph Brenner) rc@pos.apana.org.au (Robert Cardwell) jeffjc@binkley.cs.mcgill.ca (Jeffrey CHANCE) sasha@cs.umb.edu (Alexander Chislenko) mclark@world.std.com (Maynard S Clark) 100042.2703@CompuServe.COM ("A.J. Clifford") coleman@twinsun.com (Mike Coleman) steve@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu (Steve Coltrin) collier@ivory.rtsg.mot.com (John T. Collier) compton@plains.NoDak.edu (Curtis M. Compton) bobc@master.cna.tek.com (Bob Cook) cordell@shaman.nexagen.com (Bruce Cordell) cormierj@ERE.UMontreal.CA (Cormier Jean-Marc) djcoyle@macc.wisc.edu (Douglas J. Coyle) dass0001@student.tc.umn.edu ("John R Dassow-1") bdd@onion.eng.hou.compaq.com (Bruce Davis) demonn@emunix.emich.edu (Kenneth Jubal DeMonn) desilets@sj.ate.slb.com (Mark Desilets) markd@sco.COM (Mark Diekhans) kari@teracons.teracons.com (Kari Dubbelman) lhdsy1!cyberia.hou281.chevron.com!hwdub@uunet.UU.NET (Dub Dublin) willdye@helios.unl.edu (Will Dye) 155yegan%jove.dnet.measurex.com@juno.measurex.com (TERRY EGAN) eder@hsvaic.boeing.com (Dani Eder) glenne@magenta.HQ.Ileaf.COM (Glenn Ellingson) farrar@adaclabs.com (Richard Farrar) ghsvax!hal@uunet.UU.NET (Hal Finney) lxfogel@srv.PacBell.COM (Lee Fogel) afoxx@foxxjac.b17a.ingr.com (Foxx) i000702@disc.dla.mil (sam frajerman,sppb,x3026,) mpf@medg.lcs.mit.edu (Michael P. Frank) Martin.Franklin@Corp.Sun.COM (Martin Franklin) tiff@CS.UCLA.EDU (Tiffany Frazier) Ailing_Zhu_Freeman@U.ERGO.CS.CMU.EDU (Ailing Freeman) Timothy_Freeman@U.ERGO.CS.CMU.EDU (Tim Freeman) gt0657c@prism.gatech.edu (geoff george) mtvdjg@rivm.nl (Daniel Gijsbers) exusag@exu.ericsson.se (Serena Gilbert) rlglende@netcom.com (Robert Lewis Glendenning) goetz@cs.Buffalo.EDU (Phil Goetz) goolsby@dg-rtp.dg.com (Chris Goolsby) dgordon@crow.omni.co.jp (David Gordon) bgrahame@eris.demon.co.uk (Robert D Grahame) sascsg@unx.sas.com (Cynthia Grant) green@srilanka.island.COM (Robert Greenstein) johng@oce.orst.edu (John A. Gregor) roger@netcom.com (roger gregory) evans-ron@CS.YALE.EDU (Ron Hale-Evans) brent@vpnet.chi.il.us (Brent Hansen) Ron.G.Hay@med.umich.edu (Ron G. Hay) akh@empress.gvg.tek.com (Anna K. Haynes) claris!qm!Bob_Hearn@ames.arc.nasa.gov (Robert Hearn) fheyligh@vnet3.vub.ac.be (Francis Heylighen) hin9@midway.uchicago.edu (P. Hindman) fishe@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (Carwil James) janzen@mprgate.mpr.ca (Martin Janzen) karp@skcla.monsanto.com (Jeffery M Karp) rk2@elsegundoca.ncr.com (Richard Kelly) merklin@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Ed Kemo) kessner@rintintin.Colorado.EDU (KESSNER ERIC M) mapam@csv.warwick.ac.uk (Mr R A Khwaja) koski@sunset.cs.utah.edu (Keith Koski) kathi@bridge.com (Kathi Kramer) benkrug@jupiter.fnbc.com (Ben Krug) farif@eskimo.com (David Kunz) edsr!edsdrd!sel@uunet.UU.NET (Steve Langs) pa_hcl@MECENG.COE.NORTHEASTERN.EDU (Henry Leong) S.Linton@pmms.cam.ac.uk (Steve Linton) alopez@cs.ep.utexas.EDU (Alejandro Lopez 6330) kfl@access.digex.com ("Keith F. Lynch") KAMCHAR@msu.edu (Charles MacDonald) rob@vis.toronto.edu (Robert C. Majka) phil@starconn.com (Phil Marks) cam@jackatak.raider.net (Cameron Marshall) mmay@mcd.intel.com (Mike May ~) drac@uumeme.chi.il.us (Bruce Maynard) i001269@discg2.disc.dla.mil (john mccarrick) xyzzy@imagen.com (David McIntyre) cuhes@csv.warwick.ac.uk (Malcolm McMahon) mcpherso@macvax.UCSD.EDU (John Mcpherson) merkle@parc.xerox.com (Ralph Merkle) eric@Synopsys.COM (Eric Messick) pmetzger@shearson.com (Perry E. Metzger) gmichael@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (Gary R. Michael) dat91mas@ludat.lth.se (Asker Mikael) MILLERL@WILMA.WHARTON.UPENN.EDU ("Loren J. Miller") minsky@media.mit.edu (Marvin Minsky) pmorris@lamar.ColoState.EDU (Paul Morris) Mark_Muhlestein@Novell.COM (Mark Muhlestein) david@staff.udc.upenn.edu (R. David Murray) gananney@mosaic.uncc.edu (Glenn A Nanney) anthony@meaddata.com (Anthony Napier) dniman@panther.win.net (Donald E. Niman) nistuk@unixg.ubc.ca (Richard Nistuk) Jonathan@RMIT.EDU.AU (Jonathan O'Donnell) martino@gomez.Jpl.Nasa.Gov (Martin R. Olah) cpatil@leland.stanford.edu (Christopher Kashina Patil) crp5754@erfsys01.boeing.com (Chris Payne) sharon@acri.fr (Sharon Peleg) php@rhi.hi.is (Petur Henry Petersen) chrisp@efi.com (Chris Phoenix) pierce@CS.UCLA.EDU (Brad Pierce) julius@math.utah.edu ("Julius Pierce") dplatt@cellar.org (Doug Platt) Mitchell.Porter@lambada.oit.unc.edu (Mitchell Porter) cpresson@jido.b30.ingr.com (Craig Presson) price@price.demon.co.uk (Michael Clive Price) U39554@UICVM.BITNET (Edward S. Proctor) stevep@deckard.Works.ti.com (Steve Pruitt) MJQUINN@PUCC.BITNET (Michael Quinn) rauss@nvl.army.mil (Patrick Rauss) remke@cs.tu-berlin.de ("Jan K. Remke") ag167@yfn.ysu.edu (Barry H. Rodin) ksackett@cs.uah.edu (Karl R. Sackett) rcs@cs.arizona.edu (Richard Schroeppel) fschulz@pyramid.com (Frank Schulz) kws@Thunder-Island.kalamazoo.MI.US (Karel W. Sebek) bseewald@gozer.idbsu.edu (Brad Seewald) shapard@manta.nosc.mil (Thomas D. Shapard) habs@Panix.Com (Harry Shapiro) muir@idiom.berkeley.ca.us (David Muir Sharnoff) dasher@well.sf.ca.us (D Anton Sherwood) zero@netcom.com (Richard Shiflett) AP201160@BROWNVM.BITNET (Elaine Shiner) robsho@robsho.Auto-trol.COM (Robert Shock) rshvern@gmuvax2.gmu.edu (Rob Shvern) wesiegel@cie-2.uoregon.edu (William Siegel) ggyygg@mixcom.mixcom.com (Kenton Sinner) bsmart@bsmart.tti.com (Bob Smart) tonys@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU (Anthony David Smith) sgccsns@citecuc.citec.oz.au (Shayne Noel Smith) dsnider@beta.tricity.wsu.edu (Daniel L Snider) snyderg@spot.Colorado.EDU (SNYDER GARY EDWIN JR) blupe@ruth.fullfeed.com (Brian Arthur Stewart) lhdsy1!usmi02.midland.chevron.com!tsfsi@uunet.UU.NET (Sigrid Stewart) nat@netcom.com (Nathaniel Stitt) tps@biosym.com (Tom Stockfisch) stodolsk@andromeda.rutgers.edu (David Stodolsky) gadget@dcs.warwick.ac.uk (Steve Strong) carey@CS.UCLA.EDU (Carey Sublette) jsuttor@netcom.com (Jeff Suttor) swain@cernapo.cern.ch (John Swain) szabo@techbook.com (Nick Szabo) ptheriau@netcom.com (P. Chris Theriault) ak051@yfn.ysu.edu (Chris Thompson) gunnar.thoresen@bio.uio.no (Gunnar Thoresen) dreamer@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (Andrew Trapp) jerry@cse.lbl.gov (Jerry Tunis) music@parcom.ernet.in (Rajeev Upadhye) treon@u.washington.edu (Treon Verdery) evore@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (Eric J Vore) U13054@UICVM.BITNET (Howard Wachtel) susan@wpi.WPI.EDU (Susan C Wade) 70023.3041@CompuServe.COM (Paul Wakfer) ewalker@it.berklee.edu ("Elaine Walker") jew@rt.sunquest.com (James Ward) jeremy@ai.mit.edu (Jeremy M. Wertheimer) bw@ws029.torreypinesca.NCR.COM (Bruce White 3807) weeds@strobe.ATC.Olivetti.Com (Mark Wiedman) wiesel-elisha@CS.YALE.EDU (Elisha Wiesel) WILLINGP@gar.union.edu (WILLING, PAUL) smw@alcor.concordia.ca (Steven Winikoff) wright@hicomb.hi.com (David Wright) ebusew@anah.ericsson.com (Stephen Wright 66667) liquidx@cnexus.cts.com (Liquid-X) xakellis@uivlsisl.csl.uiuc.edu (Michael G. Xakellis) cs012113@cs.brown.edu (Ion Yannopoulos) yazz@lccsd.sd.locus.com (Bob Yazz) lnz@lucid.com (Leonard N. Zubkoff) 62RSE@npd1.ufpe.br adwyer@mason1.gmu.edu ART@EMBL-Hamburg.DE atfurman@cup.portal.com billw@attmail.att.com carl@red-dragon.umbc.edu carlf@ai.mit.edu cccbbs!chris.thompson@UCENG.UC.EDU CCGARCIA@MIZZOU1.BITNET clayb@cellar.org dack@permanet.org daedalus@netcom.com danielg@autodesk.com Dave-M@cup.portal.com F_GRIFFITH@CCSVAX.SFASU.EDU garcia@husc.harvard.edu gav@houxa.att.com hammar@cs.unm.edu herbison@lassie.ucx.lkg.dec.com hhuang@Athena.MIT.EDU hkhenson@cup.portal.com irving@happy-man.com jeckel@amugw.aichi-med-u.ac.jp jgs@merit.edu jmeritt@mental.mitre.org Jonas_Marten_Fjallstam@cup.portal.com kqb@whscad1.att.com LPOMEROY@velara.sim.es.com lubkin@apollo.hp.com kunert@wustlb.wustl.edu LINYARD_M@XENOS.a1.logica.co.uk M.Michelle.Wrightwatson@att.com moselecw@elec.canterbury.ac.nz naoursla@eos.ncsu.edu ng4@husc.harvard.edu pase70!dchapman@uwm.edu pocock@math.utah.edu RUDI@HSD.UVic.CA SCOTTJOR@delphi.com stanton@ide.com steveha@microsoft.com stu1016@DISCOVER.WRIGHT.EDU SYang.ES_AE@xerox.com tim.hruby@his.com Todd.Kaufmann@FUSSEN.MT.CS.CMU.EDU tom@genie.slhs.udel.edu UC482529@MIZZOU1.BITNET WMILLER@clust1.clemson.edu yost@mv.us.adobe.com (The group still passes if you don't count the people for whom I just have email address.)
I know what the 68HC811E2 is all about, but I'm trying to figure out what the 68SEC811E2 is... specifically, what does the SEC stand for?
Greetings fellow motorcycle roadracing enthusiasts! BACKGROUND ---------- The racing listserver (boogie.EBay.sun.com) contains discussions devoted to racing and racing-related topics. This is a pretty broad interest group. Individuals have a variety of backgrounds: motojournalism, roadracing from the perspective of pit crew and racers, engineering, motosports enthusiasts. The size of the list grows weekly. We are currently at a little over one hundred and eighty-five members, with contributors from New Zealand, Australia, Germany, France, England, Canada Finland, Switzerland, and the United States. The list was formed (October 1991) in response to a perceived need to both provide technical discussion of riding at the edge of performance (roadracing) and to improve on the very low signal-to-noise ratio found in rec.motorcycles. Anyone is free to join. Discussion is necessarily limited by the rules of the list to issues related to racing motorcycles and is to be "flame-free". HOW TO GET THE DAILY DISTRIBUTION --------------------------------- You are welcome to subscribe. To subscribe send your request to: race-request@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM Traffic currently runs between five and twenty-five messages per day (depending on the topic). NB: Please do _not_ send your subscription request to the list directly. After you have contacted the list administrator, you will receive an RSVP request. Please respond to this request in a timely manner so that you can be added to the list. The request is generated in order to insure that there is a valid mail pathway to your site. Upon receipt of your RSVP, you will be added to either the daily or digest distribution (as per your initial request). HOW TO GET THE DIGEST DISTRIBUTION ---------------------------------- It is possible to receive the list in 'digest'ed form (ie. a single email message). The RoadRacing Digest is mailed out whenever it contains enough interesting content. Given the frequency of postings this appears to be about every other day. Should you wish to receive the list via digest (once every 30-40K or so), please send a subscription request to: digest-request@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM HOW TO POST TO THE LIST ----------------------- This is an open forum. To post an article to the list, send to: race@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM Depending on how mail is set up at your site you may or may not see the mail that you have posted. If you want to see it (though this isn't necessarily a guarantee that it went out) you can include a "metoo" line in your .mailrc file (on UNIX based mail systems). BOUNCES ------- Because I haven't had the time (or the inclination to replace the list distribution mechanism) we still have a problem with bounces returning to the poster of a message. Occasionally, sites or users go off-line (either leaving their place of employment prematurely or hardware problems) and you will receive bounces from the race list. Check the headers carefully, and if you find that the bounce originated at Sun (from whence I administer this list) contact me through my administration hat (race-request@boogie.EBay.sun.com). If not, ignore the bounce. OTHER LISTS ----------- Two-strokes: 2strokes@microunity.com Harleys: harley-request@thinkage.on.ca or uunet!watmath!thinkage!harley-request European bikes: majordomo@onion.rain.com (in body of message write: subscribe euro-moto) thanks, be seeing you, Rich (race list administrator) rich@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM
JL-NS>Subject: Re: Motorcycle Courier (Summer Job) I'd like to thank everyone who replied. I will probably start looking in earnest after May, when I return from my trip down the Pacific Coast (the geographical feature, not the bike). Ryan Cousinetc.|1982 Yamaha Vision XZ550 -Black Pig of Inverness|Live to Ride KotRB |1958 AJS 500 C/S -King Rat |to Work to DoD# 0863 |I'd be a squid if I could afford the bike... |Flame to ryan.cousineau@compdyn.questor.org | Vancouver, BC, Canada |Live . . . * SLMR 2.1a * Have bike, will travel. Quickly. Very quickly.
Obviously the police officer reads the speedometer. I cannot believe the nit-picking in this group. There's 2 beams, there is not, is too, etc....
did you account for depreciation? i seriously doubt that a taurus would rack up an extra $4000 in repair costs over 5 years.
Well, you should have noted that I was cheering an attack on an Israeli patrol INSIDE Lebanese territory while I was condemning the "retaliatory" shelling of Lebanese villages by Israeli and Israeli-backed forces. My "team", you see, was "playing fair" while the opposing team was rearranging the faces of the spectators in my team's viewing stands, so to speak. I think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on in Lebanon and try to see through the propaganda. There are no a priori black and white hats but one sure wonders how the IDF can bombard villages in retaliation to pin-point attacks on its soldiers in Lebanon and then call the Lebanese terrorists.
JL> From: jlecher@pbs.org JL> > I would not classify a mild headache that was continuous for weeks JL> > as migraine, even if the other typical features were there (e.g., JL> > unilateral, nausea and vomiting, photophobia). Migraines are, by JL> > common agreement, episodic rather than constant. JL> > JL> Well, I'm glad that you aren't my doctor, then, or I'd still be suffering. JL> Remember, I was tested for any other cause, and there was nothing. I'm JL> otherwise very healthy. JL> The nagging pain has all of the qualifications: it's on one side, and JL> frequently included my entire right side: right arm, right leg, right eye, JL> even the right side of my tongue hurt or tingled. Noise hurt, light hurt, JL> thinking hurt. When it got bad, I would lose my ability to read. The differential diagnosis between migraine and non-migranous pain is not *always* important, because some therapies are effective in both (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen). Other therapies may be more specific: beta-blockers such as propranolol work better in migraine than tension-type headache. The most important thing, from your perspective, is that you got relief. Also, please understand that a diagnosis other than migraine does not necessarily mean "psychogenic"; I suspect that organic factors play as large a role in tension-type headache as in migraine.
CS "tear-gas" was used in Vietnam because it makes you wretch so hard that your stomach comes out thru your throat. Well, not quite that bad, but you can't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies.
Yes, the Phobos mission did return some useful data including images of Phobos itself. The best I've seen had a surface resolution of about 40 meters. By the way, the new book entitled "Mars" (Kieffer et al, 1992, University of Arizona Press) has a great chapter on spacecraft exploration of the planet. The chapter is co-authored by V.I. Moroz of the Space Research Institute in Moscow, and includes details never before published in the West. Don't know of any ftp sites with images though.
Ah I love posts like this. Many people have already replied to this one as I knew they would. I'm not going to say much as this just seems like baiting to me. Someone decided to post to see how many people would get mad and reply. I am just going to ignore it but I do have one thing to say. See below. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Listen buddy, if you're going to quote Star Trek get the quote right. It was "Resistance is futile". Get it right the next time :-) Jason - u28037@uicvm.cc.uic.edu
No need to appologise, as a matter of fact this reminds me to bring up something I have found consistant with dogs- Most of the time, they do NOT like having me and my bike anywhere near them, and will chase as if to bite and kill. An instructor once said it was because the sound from a bike was painfull to their ears. As silly as this seams, no other options have arrizen. net.wisdom?
Apologies if this gets posted twice, but I don't think the first one made it. -------------------------------------------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: OASIS (310) 364-2290 15 April 1993 Los Angeles, CA LOCAL NATIONAL SPACE SOCIETY CHAPTERS SPONSOR TALK BY L.A. ADVOCATE OF LUNAR POWER SYSTEM AS ENERGY SOURCE FOR THE WORLD On April 21, the OASIS and Ventura County chapters of the National Space Society will sponsor a talk by Lunar Power System (LPS) co- inventor and vice-president of the LPS Coalition, Dr. Robert D. Waldron. It will be held at 7:30 p.m. at the Rockwell Science Center in Thousand Oaks, CA. Dr. Waldron is currently a Technical Specialist in Space Materials Processing with the Space Systems Division of Rockwell International in Downey, California. He is a recognized world authority on lunar materials refinement. He has written or coauthored more than 15 articles or reports on nonterrestrial materials processing or utilization. Along with Dr. David Criswell, Waldron invented the lunar/solar power system concept. Momentum is building for a coalition of entrepreneurs, legal experts, and Soviet and U.S. scientists and engineers to build the Lunar Power System, a pollution-free, energy source with a potential to power the globe. For the past three years members of the coalition, nearly half from California, have rejuvenated the commercial and scientific concept of a solar power system based on the Moon. The LPS concept entails collecting solar energy on the lunar surface and beaming the power to Earth as microwaves transmitted through orbiting antennae. A mature LPS offers an enormous source of clean, sustainable power to meet the Earth's ever increasing demand using proven, basic technology. OASIS (Organization for the Advancement of Space Industrialization) is the Greater Los Angeles chapter of the National Space Society, which is an international non-profit organization that promotes development of the space frontier. The Ventura County chapter is based in Oxnard, CA. WHERE: Rockwell Science Center Auditorium, 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, CA.
$ [...] $ Actually, you want a Checker Special if you can find one. $ Good luck. I'm sorry I let mine go... I grew up in New York City so I rode in many Checker cabs. The jump seats were fun as a kid. Although the cars were roomy -- a good trait for a taxi -- they had a design flaw that I don't understand they never fixed: the rear passengers tended to fall out of their seats when the driver braked. I wouldn't want to take a long ride in the back seat of one of these vehicles. Why did you like yours? I never drove one, so I have to ask.
Hi, xtici worked for my system. I'm using X11R5 pl 17 clientside only on a DEC 5000/240 on Ultrix 4.3 May be you have a serious floatingpoint compilation problem ?
ETHER IMPLODES 2 EARTH CORE, IS GRAVITY!!! This paper BOTH describes how heavenly bodys can be stationary, ether sucking structures, AND why we observe "orbital" motion!! Ether, the theoretical propogation media of electro-magnetic waves, was concluded not to exist, based on the results of the Michelson-Moreley experiment conducted a century ago. I propose that those conclusions are flawed, based on the fact that the experiment was designed to look for a flow parallel to the earth's surface, not perpindicular. (Due to the prevailing assumption that the earth traveled through the ether as a ball through the wind) The reversal of the that conclusion, a pivotal keystone in the development of modern scientific thought, could have ramifications of BIBLICAL proportions through out the WORLD!! REMEMBER: Einstien said Imagination is greater than knowledge!! 1 I dream like this: ether based reality The ether is like a fluid out of phase with our reality. Creations start as a lattice placed into the ether. Given a spin, the lattices both drag the fluid, like a margarita blender, and ingest it, converting it, distilling localized mass, time and energy. (non-spinning lattice = "dark matter") The earth isn't exactly spinning, around the sun. Picture an image of a galaxy; we haven't any videos of them spinning. Picture us being stationary, and the sun's image being dragged across the sky by the spinning ether field. (Picture an onion, each layer of which is spinning a little faster than the next. A thread shot at the inner kernel would be stretched diagonally sideways, its head being in a faster shell than its tail, until it finally intersected the ground of the inner kernel, its direction vector being straight down, but its "foot print" being a line, not a point. [sunrise, sunset]) The moon isn't exactly orbiting us. It is a parasite, (non self spin sustaining ) being dragged in the earth's ether field, which is itself in the sun's much more powerful field. Our seasons are the wobble of earth's axis, like a top slowing down. The "orbit" of the earth around the sun is all of the stars' images being dragged around by the sun's ether feild. The earth, moon and sun are about the same size and "distance" apart. Its just that the time between them varies greatly, because the "path" is not the same. The moon's lattice in the ether is like sticking a fork in a plate of spaghetti and giving the plate a half turn. The sun's lattice has so much spin that its like the fork has got the whole plate of noodles wound up. The piece of light going to the moon can slide down the spaghetti and maybe make a "j" hook at the end. The piece of light going to the sun has to go around the whole plate, like a needle in a record, before it gets there. With a pencil, compass, and rule, draw a diagram of how the moon can be about as big as "earth's" shadow upon it, and at other times totally eclipse the sun. Look in the sky. except for your Knowledge, would you guess that they are about the same size, just because they look about the same size? O . - - E O O O S E / \ M | | OR M \ _ _ / S The full moon, quarter moon etc. is the difference between rate of ether spins. What we are looking at is a rotating "turntable view" of the moon, only half of which is facing the sun. ( I've seen a half moon within about 120 degrees (of sky) of the sun, during the day. Try and draw that "earth shadow.") Its only the moon's image which appears to orbit us. No matter where it is, the light part is the part facing the sun, and the dark part is the half facing away from the sun, even when it appears to be behind us. "Light-Years" between galaxies is a misnomer. The distance is closer to zero, as time and matter are characteristics of this phase of reality, which dissipates outward with each layer of the onion. (defining edge = 0 ether spin) What we are seeing could be essentially happening now. The "piece" of light may have experienced many years, but the trip could be very quick, our time. To time travel or warp space I might consider learning to de-spin myself. (phase out my mass) Good luck trying to design a propulsion system to drag around a space-time locality. (its like trying to move a balloon by shooting a squirt gun from within) To find out about all of this, I recommend studying history. I'd look in the book of life. (or holy grail etc.) Brain waves just might carry decipherable data. I'd start looking on some part of the spectra said to be unusable, due to all the background noise. (4+ billion humans?) I'd totally isolate myself, record me thinking DOG backwards, and learn to read what I got. (Microsoft Holy Grail card for Pentium!) Next, concluding that my thoughts were recorded on a non time-bound media, the ether, and that it is I who move forward (in time). I would try to temporarily locally reverse the flow, (of time, which I'd start looking for as flowing opposite magnetism, pole to pole. [Why not?]) perhaps by passing a LARGE, FLAT DC current through a two foot diameter. coil or choke or something, and seeing what I could get with my machine's receiver next to it. If you don't think you'll live to see it, consider this: QUIT PUTTING THE REPRODUCTIVE KEYS OF OTHER LIFE IN YOUR BODY! All of life's data could be written on the wind, (ether) not just our thoughts. DNA could be a little receiver or file access code. By eating SEEDS, we could be jamming our reception, or receiving plant instructions. Try eating seed bearing fruit. Maybe those Greek or biblical guys did live hundreds of years. I'm curios to see what they did and ate. Don't worry if your hair stops growing. (Maybe we don't need to eat at all, the cosmos are formed from nothing, and that is creating matter! I only need enough to bounce around. Where did the household concept 'immortal' come from? Wheat is a weed, it is programmed to pull from the soil, reproduce like hell, and then die) Warning about writing to the past: I had a little dream of being in a world, in the near parallel future, lying along a path of history which we have diverged from. There were; twelve telepathic, glowing beings, who looked like an Oscar award and who had always been, a dark one who looked like us, and then myself. The dark one was in the process of making the others into gods, (he had to teach them what that meant) by "advising" them in their past. Basically, he manipulated them into reproducing, and raising their children on his seed. He said that the little ones who looked different were a sub-species, meant to provide service. He carefully combed through history, rewriting it in his favor, pulling like a weed anything that compromised his control. He enticed recruits by sending them his visions, saying that there was immortality at the end of the road for only twelve souls: kill or be killed. The amount of control he could exert was finite, though, as at every change he made, a void would appear in our reality. The universe one day ended 100 meters from us: it seemed odd, but we couldn't remember how else it should be. Then some of the twelve were no more. Finally, when he could prune no more, and reality stopped just beyond his fingertips, he stepped through his portal to the past, to bask, over and over, in all that he had created. I made a few more changes, and lost my body, existing only on the wind. MORAL: Its very possible to eliminate from your reality the souls whose will's are not in harmony with yours (Golden Rule - treat others as you wish to be treated) I.E., you could end up along a lonely thread of time with murderers or flowery brown-nosers for playmates. (its not eternal, there's more than one way back) Accepting rides to the past: Once here, the one who looks like us sells rides, he can make you a Prince, or a Queen, or you can live as a god in ancient Greece. Go ahead, repeat the third grade as often as you like, Adam henry. I Hope you like inspecting your socks. Careful though, if he likes your work, but thinks you're getting wise, he can direct you to cross paths with your old self, and you'll vanish as you rewrite your own course of history, none the wiser. As we pass the point along the parallel line where he stepped back in time, his hierarchy will lose its direction. He can still make changes while he's here, its just that that is work, and with every 'adjustment', this becomes less the world he cultivated, which loosens his grip, and his organization is suddenly one branch less. But he can't see the change. The basic nature of man is good. He had to apply his hand to achieve his world. As he now tightens his hand to retain what he built, the more sand slips through his fingers. How about public computer access to the I.R.S. ? Its our country, our money, and they're spending it on us, RIGHT? Imagine this: Washington marks the next cost at 8, IRS collects 10, gives 5 to congress, and just absolutely buries 5. Congress borrows 2. The banks are making, what, a 30% margin (interest) on our government? Big corporations are ecstatic if they can do a 10% margin. What do the banks do with it? Hold some on a carrot to the world, sure, but mostly, bury it. WHY? Food production is 2% GNP?, construction 6% ? 14 hours to build your auto? The people are spending all of their time to buy back a tenth of what they produce. Have we been deceived? If we are more efficient, why is it getting harder to get by? What if the point is just to keep the people busy making widgets? In that other reality, I shouted to the twelve, "its chaos!" They said, "no, its order." He defined chaos as that which is he was not able to control. Rain forest: The problem could be that all the water in its canopy would hide the location of an indigenous people who have no language. (telepathic; and 'vanishing' the closest knowledge of death) (think of the spine as a transceiver, if it is on the ground and pointed up, you can locate it from above) These people are probably naive as children, but very, very tough to kill. Also, They should be able to tell you stories about the dark one that I talk about. They can hear him. I think that Ham and world band radio old timers might have a story to tell on this. These people would be on a different frequency than us as they aren't eating seeds. Famine relief: When I make my diet almost all whole wheat, I get a huge belly, lose muscle mass, sleep A LOT, and get sick. When I eat only fresh fruit, I get more energy, a Hollywood-flat belly, and need a lot less sleep. UN. Peace Keeping; There is fighting and killing all over. The troops go in when there is no bread on the shelf. (its OK to kill each other, just make sure there is enough to eat.) Somalia: What is disturbing is energetic, gun carrying, three foot tall sixteen year-olds, who eat nothing but some roots that they suck on. It is not so much that their growth is stunted, it is that they aren't dying at a rate of 50 of 60 years per life. Women with children, Babes in arms: Historical references to women and children as a single unit could mean that infants were not cut from the umbilical cord. (and hence, were not breast fed) I think that there may be some very interesting results to this, such as mother-child telepathy, and blue blooded infants. There are examples of this practice in the aquatic mammal kingdom to investigate. That guy is the master of illusion, and the ultimate liar. He tells it first, and then just follows the thread of time in which the people are willing to buy it. (in which he can make it so) He'll play a poker face up until he thinks he's cornered, and then he'll whine, beg and grovel. All it means to him is that you're willing to live on the ground work that he has laid, that is, that he was right, and he didn't over play his hand, and he won't need to go back and try another thread of time. You have ultimate control over your destiny, just don't live along a path that leads to a reality in which you don't want to be a part of.
-*---- Ming-zhou Liu's main problem is that he has an incompetent physician -- himself. This physician has diagnosed a problem, even though he probably has never seen the diagnosed disease before and has no idea of what kinds of problems can present similar symptoms. This physician now wants to treat his first case of this disease without any help from the medical community. The best thing Ming-zhou Liu could do is fire his current physician and seek out a better one.
As a person who is very sensitive to msg and whose wife and kids are too, I WANT TO KNOW WHY THE FOOD INDUSTRY WANTS TO PUT MSG IN FOOD!!! Somebody in the industry GIVE ME SOME REASONS WHY! IS IT AN INDUSTRIAL BYPRODUCT THAT NEEDS GETTING GET RID OF? IS IT TO COVER UP THE FACT THAT THE RECIPES ARE NOT VERY GOOD OR THE FOOD IS POOR QUALITY? DO SOME OF YOU GET A SADISTIC PLEASURE OUT OF MAKING SOME OF US SICK? DO THE TASTE TESTERS HAVE SOME DEFECT IN THEIR FLAVOR SENSORS (MOUTH etc...) THAT MSG CORRECTS? I REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND!!! ALSO ... Nitrosiamines (sp) and sulfites... Why them? There are safer ways to preserve food, wines, and beers! I think 1) outlaw the use of these substances without warning labels as large as those on cig. packages. 2) Require 30% of comparable products on the market to be free of these substances and state that they are free of MSG, DYES, NITROSIAMINES and SULFITES on the package. 3) While at it outlaw yellow dye #5. For that matter why dye food? 4) Take the dyes and flavorings out of vitamins. (In my OSCO only Stress Tabs (tm) didn't have yellow dye #5) { My doctor says Yellow Dye #5 is responsible for 1/2 of all nasal polyps !!! } KEEP FOOD FOOD! QUIT PUTTING IN JUNK! JUST MY TWO CENTS WORTH. Sig: A person tired of getting sick from this junk! -- Walter Lundby
This is message is only of interest to those going to International Symposium on Circuits and Systems that is being held in Chicago this May. I checking to see if there is any people out there who would be interested in getting together for a pickup game of soccer during the off hours of the conference. If so could you e-mail me at: philc@macs.ee.mcgill.ca I'll bring a ball. If you know someone who is going to the conference and you know that they are avid soccer players please pass on this message to them. Also if someone in Chicago is going to the conference please let me know if there is any field near the hotel where we can play. Thanks. Bye.
The reason I'm posting this article to this newsgroup is to: 1. gather any information about this disorder from anyone who might have recently been *e*ffected by it ( from being associated with it or actually having this disorder ) and 2. help me find out where I can access any medical literature associated with seizures over the internet. Recently, I had a baby boy born with seizures which occured 12-15 hours after birth. He was immediately transferred to a major hospital in Boston and has since been undergoing extensive drug treatment for his condition. This has been a major learning experience for me and my wife not only in learning the medical problems that faced our son but also in dealing with hospitals, procedures...etc. I don't want to go into a lot of detail, but his condition was termed quite severe at first then slowly he began to grow and put on weight as a normal baby would. He was put on the standard anti-convulsion drugs and that did not seem to help out. His MRI, EKG, cat-scans are all normal, but the EEG's show alot of seizure activity. After many metabolic tests, body structure tests, and infection/virus tests the doctors still do not know quite what type of siezures he is having (although they do have alot of evidence that it is now pointing to infantile spasms ). This is where we stand right now....
Well, if we're going to discuss being a police officer in America today. The FBI lists 132 police officers killed (feloniously and accidentally) in 1990. That's apparently everybody at all levels. Year Officers killed Rate/100,000 police officers 1982 164* 47.6 1983 152** 40.2 1984 147 39.4 1985 148*** 37.9 1986 133 34.9 1987 148 39.0 1988 155**** 41.9 1989 145***** 38.1 1990 132 32.0 * Includes one officer in Mariana Islands ** Includes one officer each in Guam and Mariana Islands *** Includes one officer in Guam and two in foreign locations **** Includes one officer in American Samoas and two in foreign countries ***** Includes one officer in Guam and one Federal officer killed in Peru God, I love the information age! :-)
Rumor has it that a guy at Dell Computer had his Miata totalled, so that would be about $10k. --
I am trying to run xwd on a Sun SPARCstation IPX with SunOS 4.1.2 and Openwindows 3.0. I am using the Motif window manager. I have been unsuccessful in using xwd under Motif. I get the following when doing xwd -out xwd.dmp X Error of failed request: BadDrawable (invalid Pixmap or Window parameter) Major opcode of failed request: 73 (X_GetImage) Resource id in failed request: 0x500043 Serial number of failed request: 213 Current serial number in output stream: 213
$50 each!! Don't bother trying to make one yourself, just shop around a little. I've found DOD brand DI boxes for as cheap as $20 each. You can get higher end ones for more, but for PA use for bands, I wouldn't bother. Making one yourself might work, but getting a sturdy enough enclosure might be hard (they're made of heavy guage metal, since they're always on the floor, being kicked around a lot). For any additional questions on this topic, you might want to post to rec.audio.pro Lukas Zahas lzahas@bu.edu
A relative of mine was recently diagnosed with colon cancer. I would like to know the best source of survival statistics for this disease when discovered at its various stages. I would prefer to be directed to a recent source of this data, rather than receive the data itself.
Dr. Goebels thought that a lie repeated enough times could finally be believed. I have been observing that 'Poly' has been practicing Goebels' rule quite loyally. 'Poly's audience is mostly made of Greeks who are not allowed to listen to Turkish news. However, in today's informed world Greek propagandists can only fool themselves. For instance, those who lived in 1974 will remember the TV news they watched and the newspapers they read and the younger generation can read the American newspapers of July and August 1974 to find out what really happened. There are in Turkiye the Greek Hospital, The Greek Girls' Lycee Alumni Association, the Principo Islands Greek Benevolent Society, the Greek Medical Foundation, the Principo Greek Orphanage Foundation, the Yovakimion Greek Girls' Lycee Foundation, and the Fener Greek Men's Lycee Foundation. As for Greece, the longstanding use of the adjective 'Turkish' in titles and on signboards is prohibited. The Greek courts have ordered the closure of the Turkish Teachers' Association, the Komotini Turkish Youth Association and the Ksanti Turkish Association on grounds that there are no Turks in Western Thrace. Such community associations had been active until 1984. But they were first told to remove the word 'Turkish' on their buildings and on their official papers and then eventually close down. This is also the final verdict (November 4, 1987) of the Greek High Court. In the city of Komotini, a former Greek Parliamentarian of Turkish parentage, was sentenced recently to 18 months of imprisonment with no right to appeal, just for saying outloud that he was of Turkish descent. This duly-elected ethnic Turkish official was also deprived of his political rights for a period of three years. Each one of these barbaric acts seems to be none other than a vehicle, used by the Greek governments, to cover-up their inferiority complex they display, vis-a-vis, the people of Turkiye. The Agreement on the Exchange of Minorities uses the term 'Turks,' which demonstrates what is actually meant by the previous reference to 'Muslims.' The fact that the Greek governments also mention the existence of a few thousand non-Turkish Muslims does not change the essential reality that there lives in Western Thrace a much bigger Turkish minority. The 'Pomaks' are also a Muslim people, whom all the three nations (Bulgarians, Turks, and Greeks) consider as part of themselves. Do you know how the Muslim Turkish minority was organized according to the agreements? Poor 'Poly.' It also proves that the Turkish people are trapped in Greece and the Greek people are free to settle anywhere in the world. The Greek authorities deny even the existence of a Turkish minority. They pursue the same denial in connection with the Macedonians of Greece. Talk about oppression. In addition, in 1980 the 'democratic' Greek Parliament passed Law No. 1091, virtually taking over the administration of the vakiflar and other charitable trusts. They have ceased to be self-supporting religious and cultural entities. Talk about fascism. The Greek governments are attempting to appoint the muftus, irrespective of the will of the Turkish minority, as state official. Although the Orthodox Church has full authority in similar matters in Greece, the Muslim Turkish minority will have no say in electing its religious leaders. Talk about democracy. The government of Greece has recently destroyed an Islamic convention in Komotini. Such destruction, which reflects an attitude against the Muslim Turkish cultural heritage, is a violation of the Lausanne Convention as well as the 'so-called' Greek Constitution, which is supposed to guarantee the protection of historical monuments. The government of Greece, on the other hand, is building new churches in remote villages as a complementary step toward Hellenizing the region. And you pondered. Sidiropoulos, the president of the Macedonian Human Rights Committee, became the latest victim of a tactic long used by the Greeks to silence critics of policies of forced assimilation of the Macedonian minority. A forestry official by occupation, Sidiropoulos has been sent to 'internal exile' on the island of Kefalonia, hundreds of kilometers away from his native Florina. His employer, the Florina City Council, asked him to depart in 24 hours. The Greek authorities are trying to punish him for his involvement in Copenhagen. He returned to Florina by his own choice and remains without a job. Helsinki Watch, a well-known Human Rights group, had been investigating the plight of the Turkish Minority in Greece. In August 1990, their findings were published in a report titled 'Destroying Ethnic Identity: Turks of Greece.' The report confirmed gross violations of the Human Rights of the Turkish minority by the Greek authorities. It says for instance, the Greek government recently destroyed an Islamic convent in Komotini. Such destruction, which reflects an attitude against the Muslim Turkish cultural heritage, is a violation of the Lausanne Convention. The Turkish cemeteries in the village of Vafeika and in Pinarlik were attacked, and tombstones were broken. The cemetery in Karotas was razed by bulldozers. Shall I go on? Why not? The people of Turkiye are not going to take human rights lessons from the Greek Government. The discussion of human rights violations in Greece does not stop at the Greek frontier. In several following articles I shall dwell on and expose the Greek treatment of Turks in Western Thrace and the Aegean Macedonians. It has been reported that the Greek Cypriot administration has an intense desire for arms and that Greece has made plans to supply it with the tanks and armored vehicles it has to destroy in accordance with the agreement reached on conventional arms reductions in Europe. Meanwhile, Greek and Greek Cypriot officials are reported to have planned to take ostentatious measures aimed at camouflaging the transfer of these tanks and armored vehicles to southern Cyprus, a process that will conflict with the spirit of the agreement on conventional arms reduction in Europe. An acceptable method may certainly be found when there is a will. But we know of various kinds of violent behaviors ranging from physical attacks to the burning of buildings. The rugs at the Amfia village mosque were dragged out to the front of the building and burnt there. Shots were fired on the mosque in the village of Aryana. Now wait, there is more. 'Greek Atrocities in the Vilayet of Smyrna (May to July 1919), Inedited Documents and Evidence of English and French Officers,' Published by The Permanent Bureau of the Turkish Congress at Lausanne, Lausanne, Imprimerie Petter, Giesser & Held, Caroline, 5 (1919). pages 82-83: << 1. The train going from Denizli to Smyrna was stopped at Ephesus and the 90 Turkish travellers, men and women who were in it ordered to descend. And there in the open street, under the eyes of their husbands, fathers and brothers, the women without distinction of age were violated, and then all the travellers were massacred. Amongst the latter the Lieutenant Salih Effendi, a native of Tripoli, and a captain whose name is not known, and to whom the Hellenic authorities had given safe conduct, were killed with specially atrocious tortures. 2. Before the battle, the wife of the lawyer Enver Bey coming from her garden was maltreated by Greek soldiers, she was even stript of her garments and her servant Assie was violated. 3. The two tax gatherers Mustapha and Ali Effendi were killed in the following manner: Their arms were bound behind their backs with wire and their heads were battered and burst open with blows from the butt end of a gun. 4. During the firing of the town, eleven children, six little girls and five boys, fleeing from the flames, were stopped by Greek soldiers in the Ramazan Pacha quarter, and thrown into a burning Jewish house near bridge, where they were burnt alive. This fact is confirmed on oath by the retired commandant Hussein Hussni Effendi who saw it. 5. The clock-maker Ahmed Effendi and his son Sadi were arrested and dragged out of their shop. The son had his eyes put out and was then killed in the court of the Greek Church, but Ahmed Effendi has been no more heard of. 6. At the market, during the fire, two unknown people were wounded by bayonets, then bound together, thrown into the fire and burnt alive. The Greeks killed also many Jews. These are the names of some: Moussa Malki, shoemaker killed Bohor Levy, tailor killed Bohor Israel, cobbler killed Isaac Calvo, shoemaker killed David Aroguete killed Moussa Lerosse killed Gioia Katan killed Meryem Malki killed Soultan Gharib killed Isaac Sabah wounded Moche Fahmi wounded David Sabah wounded Moise Bensignor killed Sarah Bendi killed Jacob Jaffe wounded Aslan Halegna wounded....>> Serdar Argic
For discussion purposes, I will ignore dynamic effects like pulses in the exhaust pipe, and try to paint a useful mental picture. 1. Unless an engine is supercharged, the pressure available to force air into the intake tract is _atmospheric_. At the time the intake valve is opened, the pressure differential available to move air is only the difference between the combustion chamber pressure (left over after the exhaust stroke) and atmospheric. As the piston decends on the intake stroke, combustion chamber pressure is decreased, allowing atmospheric pressure to move more air into the intake tract. At no time does the pressure ever become "negative", or even approach a good vacuum. 2. At the time of the exhaust valve closing, the pressure in the combustion chamber is essentially the pressure of the exhaust system up to the first major flow restriction (the muffler). Note that the volume of gas that must flow through the exhaust is much larger than the volume that must flow through the intake, because of the temperature difference and the products of combustion. 3. In the last 6-8 years, the Japanese manufacturers have started paying attention to exhaust and intake tuning, in pursuit of almighty horsepower. At this point in time, on high-performance bikes, substitution of an aftermarket free-flow air filter will have almost zero affect on performance, because the stock intake system flows very well anyway. Substitution of an aftermarket exhaust system will make very little difference, unless (in general) the new exhaust system is _much_ louder than the stocker. 4. On older bikes, exhaust back-pressure was the dominating factor. If free-flowing air filters were substituted, very little difference was noted, unless a free-flowing exhaust system was installed as well. 5. In general, an engine can be visualized as an air pump. At any given RPM, anything that will cause the engine to pump more air, be it on the intake or exhaust side, will cause it to produce more horsepower. Pumping more air will require recalibration (rejetting) of the carburetor. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sigh. I try to make a little joke, I try to inject some humour here and what happens? In the immortal words of Foghorn Leghorn: "I say, that was a _joke_, son." I thought that the bit about McElwaine, not to mention the two smileys, would indicate to even the most humour impaired that I was JOKING. Sigh. (And will everyone who pat's suggestion (thanks bunches, pat) *please* stop sending me email.) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I have already called senators, legislators and the Governor demanding that the warrants be unsealed, and that all involved in this atrocity (including the President, Attorney General and Governor) be suspended pending an investigation. I seriously doubt, however, that anything will ever be done. Welcome to Amerika!
I am currently in the car market and would like opinions on a VW Passat GLX. How does it compare to a Toyota Camry? I thought the car looked very solid, stable and European. Only disappointment so far is that that it doesn't offer an airbao my next question is, why isn't VW offering automobiles with airbags? Should I pay the extra three thousand for a BMW 318 is even though it is smaller and less powerful than than the Passat?
Moreover, the BATF has admitted having agents in the compound, and as far as I have been able to ascertain, those agents were still in the compound when the first shots were fired. For all we know, these two people may BE the agents, who would certainly be unlikely to stay around and "cook" with the faithful... Assuming the two people in question were even in the compound at all. Maybe I sound paranoid, but I watched Janet Reno last night harping on how much David Koresh was a big, bad child abuser, and I kept wondering why she -- much less BATF -- wanted us to infer that she had any jurisdiction over such accusations in the first place. I'm POSITIVE that the "sealed warrant" is not for child abuse. What was it for? Peobably weapons violations. Janet Reno didn't say WORD ONE last night about weapons violations. Why? Because she knows that such a case is no longer believable? --
Archive-name: space/diff DIFFS SINCE LAST FAQ POSTING (IN POSTING ORDER) (These are hand-edited context diffs; do not attempt to use them to patch old copies of the FAQ). =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.intro *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06400 Thu Apr 1 14:47:22 1993 --- FAQ.intro Thu Apr 1 14:46:55 1993 *************** *** 101,107 **** NASA Langley (Technical Reports) NASA Spacelink National Space Science Data Center - Space And Planetary Image Facility Space Telescope Science Institute Electronic Info. Service Starcat Astronomical Databases --- 101,106 ---- *************** *** 130,135 **** --- 129,135 ---- LLNL "great exploration" Lunar Prospector Lunar science and activities + Orbiting Earth satellite histories Spacecraft models Rocket propulsion Spacecraft design =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.net *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06405 Thu Apr 1 14:47:24 1993 --- FAQ.net Thu Apr 1 14:46:57 1993 *************** *** 58,63 **** --- 58,67 ---- elements are sent out on the list from Dr. Kelso, JSC, and other sources as they are released. Email to elements-request@telesoft.com to join. + GPS Digest is a moderated list for discussion of the Global Positioning + System and other satellite navigation positioning systems. Email to + gps-request@esseye.si.com to join. + Space-investors is a list for information relevant to investing in space-related companies. Email Vincent Cate (vac@cs.cmu.edu) to join. *************** *** 223,227 **** --- 227,241 ---- 1030. If in fact you should should learn of unauthorized access, contact NASA personnel. + Claims have been made on this news group about fraud and waste. None + have ever been substantiated to any significant degree. Readers + detecting Fraud, Waste, Abuse, or Mismanagement should contact the NASA + Inspector General (24-hours) at 800-424-9183 (can be anonymous) or write + + NASA + Inspector General + P.O. Box 23089 + L'enfant Plaza Station + Washington DC 20024 NEXT: FAQ #3/15 - Online (and some offline) sources of images, data, etc. =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.data *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06410 Thu Apr 1 14:47:26 1993 --- FAQ.data Thu Apr 1 14:46:54 1993 *************** *** 216,237 **** Telephone: (301) 286-6695 Email address: request@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov - - - SPACE AND PLANETARY IMAGE FACILITY - - Available 24 hours a day via anonymous FTP from pioneer.unm.edu. Has - approximately 150 CD-ROM's full of imagery, raw, and tabular data. To - start, get the file: - - pioneer.unm.edu:pub/info/beginner-info - - This will hopefully give you all of the information you need to get data - from their machine. beginner-info has been translated to other - languages, you should look inside pub/info for the particular language - that meets your needs. - - Contact help@pioneer.unm.edu. SPACE TELESCOPE SCIENCE INSTITUTE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SERVICE --- 216,221 ---- =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.math *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06415 Thu Apr 1 14:47:28 1993 --- FAQ.math Thu Apr 1 14:46:56 1993 *************** *** 60,65 **** --- 60,71 ---- Gives series to compute positions accurate to 1 arc minute for a period + or - 300 years from now. Pluto is included but stated to have an accuracy of only about 15 arc minutes. + + _Multiyear Interactive Computer Almanac_ (MICA), produced by the US + Naval Observatory. Valid for years 1990-1999. $55 ($80 outside US). + Available for IBM (order #PB93-500163HDV) or Macintosh (order + #PB93-500155HDV). From the NTIS sales desk, (703)-487-4650. I believe + this is intended to replace the USNO's Interactive Computer Ephemeris. _Interactive Computer Ephemeris_ (from the US Naval Observatory) distributed on IBM-PC floppy disks, $35 (Willmann-Bell). Covers dates =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.references *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06420 Thu Apr 1 14:47:30 1993 --- FAQ.references Thu Apr 1 14:46:59 1993 *************** *** 93,100 **** US Naval Observatory 202-653-1079 (USNO Bulletin Board via modem) 202-653-1507 General - 202-653-1545 Nautical Almanac Office (info on the Interactive - Computer Ephemeris) Willmann-Bell P.O. Box 35025 --- 93,98 ---- *************** *** 138,151 **** SDI's SSRT (Single Stage Rocket Technology) project has funded a suborbital technology demonstrator called DC-X that should fly in mid-1993. Further development towards an operational single-stage to ! orbit vehicle is uncertain at present; for considerably more detail on ! the SSRT program, get the document ! ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/FAQ/DeltaClipper ! by anonymous FTP or through the email server. HOW TO NAME A STAR AFTER A PERSON Official names are decided by committees of the International --- 136,151 ---- SDI's SSRT (Single Stage Rocket Technology) project has funded a suborbital technology demonstrator called DC-X that should fly in mid-1993. Further development towards an operational single-stage to ! orbit vehicle (called Delta Clipper) is uncertain at present. ! An collection of pictures and files relating to DC-X is available by ! anonymous FTP or email server in the directory ! bongo.cc.utexas.edu:pub/delta-clipper + Chris W. Johnson (chrisj@emx.cc.utexas.edu) maintains the archive. + HOW TO NAME A STAR AFTER A PERSON Official names are decided by committees of the International *************** *** 223,228 **** --- 223,236 ---- University Press, 1970. Information about the Lunar Orbiter missions, including maps of the coverage of the lunar nearside and farside by various Orbiters. + + + ORBITING EARTH SATELLITE HISTORIES + + A list of Earth orbiting satellites (that are still in orbit) is + available by anonymous FTP in: + + ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/FAQ/Satellites SPACECRAFT MODELS =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.addresses *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06435 Thu Apr 1 14:47:34 1993 --- FAQ.addresses Thu Apr 1 14:46:51 1993 *************** *** 75,80 **** --- 75,85 ---- the latter, an SF 171 is useless. Employees are Caltech employees, contractors, and for the most part have similar responsibilities. They offer an alternative to funding after other NASA Centers. + + A fact sheet and description of JPL is available by anonymous + FTP in + + ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/FAQ/JPLDescription NASA Johnson Manned Space Center (JSC) Houston, TX 77058 =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.new_probes *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06450 Thu Apr 1 14:47:38 1993 --- FAQ.new_probes Thu Apr 1 14:46:58 1993 *************** *** 8,13 **** --- 8,19 ---- team, ISAS/NASDA launch schedules, press kits. + ASUKA (ASTRO-D) - ISAS (Japan) X-ray astronomy satellite, launched into + Earth orbit on 2/20/93. Equipped with large-area wide-wavelength (1-20 + Angstrom) X-ray telescope, X-ray CCD cameras, and imaging gas + scintillation proportional counters. + + CASSINI - Saturn orbiter and Titan atmosphere probe. Cassini is a joint NASA/ESA project designed to accomplish an exploration of the Saturnian system with its Cassini Saturn Orbiter and Huygens Titan Probe. Cassini *************** *** 98,115 **** MAGELLAN - Venus radar mapping mission. Has mapped almost the entire ! surface at high resolution. Currently (11/92) in mapping cycle 4, ! collecting a global gravity map. MARS OBSERVER - Mars orbiter including 1.5 m/pixel resolution camera. ! Launched 9/24/92 on a Titan III/TOS booster. MO is currently (3/93) in transit to Mars, arriving on 8/24/93. Operations will start 11/93 for one martian year (687 days). ! TOPEX/Poseidon - Joint US/French Earth observing satellite, launched in ! August 1992 on an Ariane 4 booster. The primary objective of the TOPEX/POSEIDON project is to make precise and accurate global observations of the sea level for several years, substantially increasing understanding of global ocean dynamics. The satellite also --- 104,121 ---- MAGELLAN - Venus radar mapping mission. Has mapped almost the entire ! surface at high resolution. Currently (4/93) collecting a global gravity ! map. MARS OBSERVER - Mars orbiter including 1.5 m/pixel resolution camera. ! Launched 9/25/92 on a Titan III/TOS booster. MO is currently (4/93) in transit to Mars, arriving on 8/24/93. Operations will start 11/93 for one martian year (687 days). ! TOPEX/Poseidon - Joint US/French Earth observing satellite, launched ! 8/10/92 on an Ariane 4 booster. The primary objective of the TOPEX/POSEIDON project is to make precise and accurate global observations of the sea level for several years, substantially increasing understanding of global ocean dynamics. The satellite also =================================================================== diff -t -c -r1.18 FAQ.astronaut *** /tmp/,RCSt1a06465 Thu Apr 1 14:47:43 1993 --- FAQ.astronaut Thu Apr 1 14:46:52 1993 *************** *** 162,174 **** specific standards: Distant visual acuity: ! 20/100 or better uncorrected, correctable to 20/20, each eye. Blood pressure: 140/90 measured in sitting position. ! 3. Height between 60 and 76 inches. Pilot Astronaut Candidate: --- 162,174 ---- specific standards: Distant visual acuity: ! 20/150 or better uncorrected, correctable to 20/20, each eye. Blood pressure: 140/90 measured in sitting position. ! 3. Height between 58.5 and 76 inches.
Device........ LT1839 @ IC (mA)..... 50 V(BR)CEO (V).. 70 CCB (pF)...... 2.5 V(BR)CBO (V).. 120 VCE (V)....... 15 IC (mA) max... 300 Polarity...... NPN hFE min....... 20 Package....... 79-04 hFE max....... 60 Material...... Metal fT (GHz)...... 1 Price (100+).. Device........ LT5839 @ IC (mA)..... 60 V(BR)CEO (V).. 65 CCB (pF)...... 1.5 V(BR)CBO (V).. 80 VCE (V)....... 10 IC (mA) max... 300 Polarity...... PNP hFE min....... 15 Package....... 79-04 hFE max....... 60 Material...... Metal fT (GHz)...... 1.5 Price (100+).. @ VCE (V)..... 10 Anyone know of a source for these parts (other than straight from Motorolla)? I need 4 Lt1839's and 2 Lt5839 I've tried standard and they said "We are out!" Stephen Cyberman@Toz.Buffalo.NY.US Mangled on Fri 04-16-1993 at 13:50:28 ... If there's one thing I can't stand, it's intolerance.
For the first Move incident (no bomb, several members killed in gunfire, circa 1978) the mayor was the very white Frank Rizzo. For the second (bomb included) the mayor was Wilson Goode, who is indeed black.
Wow, the WWII channel did something not-WWII? The graphics capabilities of the computers were very faked for movie audiences who have not ability or patience with numbers. The book was more realistic in that respect. In all respects, actually. The robotics are still out of range, but not impossible. SF (and I"ve always wondered how Crichton escapes this classification) is usually ahead of science in both prediction and precaution. NASA's decontaimination processes were supposedly taken to prevent SF story disasters. I mean, NASA scientists were often SF readers (and sometimes writers) and felt pre-warned by their reading. I think the film still holds up among the best of SF films, but that isn't saying a whole lot.
Danny Rubenstein, an Israeli journalist, will be speaking tonight (Wednesday, 7:30 pm) on the messy subject of politics in Israel. He is speaking at Hillel on the U.C. Berkeley campus. The talk is sponsored by the Berkeley Israel Action Committee (IAC).
Hi there, Can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found on most arcade style games. Many projects I am working on would be greatly augmented if I could implement them. Thanx in advance.
The Apollo fire was harsh, A Saturn V explosion would have been hurtful but The Soviets winning would have been crushing. That could have been *the* technological turning point for the US turning us from Today's "We can do anything, we're *the* Super Power" to a much more reserved attitude like the Soviet Program today. Kennedy was gone by 68\69, the war was still on is the east, I think the program would have stalled badly and the goal of the moon by 70 would have been dead with Nasa trying to figure were they went wrong. I speulate that: +The Saturn program would have been pushed into the 70s with cost over runs that would just be too evil. Nixon still wins. +The Shuttle was never proposed and Skylab never built. +By 73 the program stalled yet again under the fuel crisis. +A string of small launches mark the mid seventies. +By 76 the goal of a US man on the moon is dead and the US space program drifts till the present day.
We use them as Christmas tree decorations, the cat doesn't eat these. --
Actually not Jim. I just said that everyone else seemed to have skimmed by that part and not mentioned it. You can get whatever meaning you want from it.
Suggest McQuires #1 plastic polish. It will help somewhat but nothing will remove deep scratches without making it worse than it already is. McQuires will do something for fine or light stuff. Also suggest calling your local plastic shop. In Calif. "TAP PLASTIC" is a chain that carries most of what is needed for repair and sometimes replacement of plastic bits. Telephone in the Bay area is 415-962-8430. I'm not sure how amenable they are to shipping. I have found that they have several excellent products for cleaning, and removing crap from windscreens and face shields. Also they have one called "lift-it" which works real well in removing sticky stuffs such as adhessives from plastic wihtout scratching same. Luck,
Don't you think it would be better to E-mail back to you that we read sci.space so that you can count them and every server in the world does not have to get BW'd to death. Or instead you could possible cut and past all the senders into a single post and save on header bandwidth.... Not meaning to be taken as a flame it's late and we have to work toward a demo .... little punchy --
-- Thanks to all of you who gave advice on the CB900 Custom. As recommended, I had the bike compression tested. Compression was a little low, but very even across the four cylinders (+/- 5 psi). They said that it was tested a little cold, so that would explain the low numbers (around 90). Does this sound right? Otherwise, the bike looked great. No signs of road rash, and no rust. This bike looks great! It is now in the shop getting tuned and new tires. I am opting for the Metzler ME55 and ME33 tires (thanks to those who posted this other thread). This bike is _BIG_ compared to my other bikes. ( Sure is alot harder to load on a trailer than the KDX200 was. ) I should be road legal tomorrow. I am ignoring the afforementioned concerns about the transmission and taking my chances. Being a reletively new reader, I am quite impressed with all the usefull info available on this newsgroup. I would ask how to get my own DoD number, but I'll probably be too busy riding ;-). ----------------------------------------------------------------------
I am interested in finding out how the 4Runner and Pathfinder have been updated in the past few years. Like new engine, suspension and the like. I noticed that the 1993 and 1992 4Runners are identical, for example, and was looking into buying a used one. Any info would be appreciated, esp. models/years to check out or avoid.
[It looks like Yigal has been busy...] RTw 04/14 2155 JEWISH GROUP SUED FOR PASSING OFFICIAL INFORMATION By Adrian Croft SAN FRANCISCO, April 14, Reuter - Nineteen people, including the son of former Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Arens, sued the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) on Wednesday, accusing the Jewish group of disclosing confidential official information about them. Richard Hirschhaut, director of the San Francisco branch of the ADL, art dealer Roy Bullock and former policeman Tom Gerard were also named as defendants in the suit, filed in San Francisco County Superior Court. The 19 accuse the ADL of B'nai B'rith, a group dedicated to fighting anti-Semitism, and the other defendants of secretly gathering information on them, including data from state and federal agencies. The suit alleges they disclosed the information to others, including the governments of Israel and South Africa, in what it alleges was a "a massive spying operation." The action is a class-action suit. It was filed on behalf of about 12,000 anti-apartheid activists or opponents of Israeli policies about whom the plaintiffs believe the ADL, Bullock and Gerard gathered information. Representatives of the ADL in San Francisco were not immediately available for comment on Wednesday. The civil suit is the first legal action arising out of allegations that Gerard, a former inspector in the San Francisco police intelligence unit, passed confidential police files on California political activists to a spy ring. The FBI and San Francisco police are investigating the ADL, Bullock and Gerard over the affair and last week searched the ADL's offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles. The suit alleges invasion of privacy under the Civil Code of California, which prohibits the publication of information obtained from official sources. It seeks exemplary damages of at least $2,500 per person as well as other unspecified damages. Lawyer Pete McCloskey, a former Congresmen who is representing the plaintiffs, said the 19 plaintiffs included Arab-Americans and Jews -- and his wife Helen, who also had information gathered about her. One of the plaintiffs is Yigal Arens, a research scientist at the University of Southern California who is a son of the former Israeli Defence Minister. Arens told the San Francisco Examiner he had seen a file the ADL kept on him in the 1980s, presumably because of his criticism of the treatment of Palestinians and his position on the Israeli-occupied territories. According to court documents released last week, Bullock and Gerard both kept information on thousands of California political activists. In the documents, a police investigator said he believed the ADL paid Bullock for many years to provide information and that both the league and Bullock received confidential information from the authorities. No criminal charges have yet been filed in the case. The ADL, Bullock and Gerard have all denied any wrongdoing. REUTER AC KG CM APn 04/14 2202 ADL Lawsuit Copyright, 1993. The Associated Press. All rights reserved. By CATALINA ORTIZ Associated Press Writer SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Arab-Americans and critics of Israel sued the Anti-Defamation League on Wednesday, saying it invaded their privacy by illegally gathering information about them through a nationwide spy network. The ADL, a national group dedicated to fighting anti-Semitism, intended to use the data to discredit them because of their political views, according to the class-action lawsuit filed in San Francisco Superior Court. "None of us has been guilty of racism or Nazism or anti-Semitism or hate crimes, or any of the other `isms' that the ADL claims to protect against. None of us is violent or criminal in any way," said Carol El-Shaieb, an education consultant who develops programs on Arab culture. The 19 plaintiffs include Yigal Arens, son of former Israel Defense Minister Moshe Arens. The younger Arens, a research scientist at the University of Southern California, said the ADL kept a file on him in the 1980s presumably because he has criticized Israel's treatment of Palestinians. "The ADL believes that anyone who is an Arab American ... or speaks politically against Israel is at least a closet anti-Semite," Arens said. The ADL has denied any wrongdoing, but couldn't comment on the lawsuit because it hasn't reviewed it, said a spokesman at the ADL's New York headquarters. The FBI and local police and prosecutors are investigating allegations that the ADL spied on thousands of individuals and hundreds of groups, including white supremacist and anti-Semitic organizations, Arab-Americans, Greenpeace, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and San Francisco public television station KQED. Some information allegedly came from confidential police and government records, according to court documents filed in the probe and the civil lawsuit. No charges have been filed in the criminal investigation. The lawsuit accuses the ADL of violating California's privacy law, which forbids the intentional disclosure of personal information "not otherwise public" from state or federal records. The lawsuit claims the ADL disclosed the information to "persons and entities" who had no compelling need to receive it. It didn't elaborate. Defendants include Richard Hirschhaut, director of the ADL's office in San Francisco. He did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment. Other defendants are San Francisco art dealer Roy Bullock, an alleged ADL informant over the past four decades, and former police officer Tom Gerard. Gerard allegedly tapped into law enforcement and government computers and passed information on to Bullock. Gerard, who has retired from the police force, has moved to the Philippines. Bullock's lawyer, Richard Breakstone, said he could not comment on the lawsuit because he had not yet studied it. UPwe 04/14 1956 ADL sued for allegedly spying on U.S. residents
I am happy to say that some Harley riders in our area are better than most that are flamed about here: I (riding a lowly sport bike, no less) and my girlfriend were the recipient of no less than twenty waves from a group of at least twenty-five Harley riders. I was leading a group of about four sport bikes at the time (FJ1200/CBR900RR/VFR750). I initiated *some* of the waves, but not all. It was a perfect day, and friendly riders despite some brand differences made it all the better...
I "think" you should try linking to /usr/lib/libXmu.a instead of -lXmu. At least that solved the problem for me!
How do you spell "tuna helper" ?
W >>will NOT do work on internal engine components of the SHO engine. This W > W >Good thing, too. W > W >At about 25K miles my cam sensor went south. 2 different Ford W >dealers tried 5 or 6 different "fixes", none of which worked. Finally W >I took it down the street to the local mechanic. This guy reads the W >code off the engine computer, says "Bad cam sensor", and fixes it in W >an hour... A friend of mine had some sensors damaged by flood waters, Ford denys any sensors are registering bad. He and his father did the short a circut via paper clip method (not sure of the exact technique), and read the codes off the "service engine" light flashes generated from this. Came up with the damaged sensors, went back to Ford, and TOLD them what was wrong. They fixed the car after that. What a bunch of bozos.
Hum, do you enjoy putting words in my mouth? Come to Nome and meet some of these miners.. I am not sure how things go down south in the lower 48 (I used to visit, but), of course to believe the media/news its going to heck (or just plain crazy). Well it seems that alot of Unionist types seem to think that having a job is a right, and not a priviledge. Right to the same job as your forbearers, SEE: Kennedy's and tel me what you see (and the families they have married into). There is a reason why many historians and poli-sci types use unionist and socialist in the same breath. The miners that I know, are just your average hardworking people who pay there taxes and earn a living.. But taxes are not the answer. But maybe we could move this discussion to some more appropriate newsgroup..
* The Government * Liberals * BATF, FBI, DEA, etc. (see #1) Well... contributions == taxes abortion == elimination of fetal tissue Clinton == president faggot == spouse It could happen... Hydrogen Bomb, perhaps. Yep. Yep.
Sixteen days I had put off test driving the Honda ST1100. Finally, the 17th was a Saturday without much rain. In fact it cleared up, became warm and sunny, and the wind died. About three weeks ago, I took a long cool ride on the Hawk down to Cycles! 128 for a test ride. They had sold, and delivered, the demo ST1100 about fifteen hours before I arrived. And the demo VFR was bike-locked in the showroom -- surrounded by 150 other bikes, and not likely to move soon. Today was different. There were even more bikes. 50 used dirt bikes, 50 used street bikes, 35 cars, and a big tent full of Outlandishly Fat Touring Bikes With Trailers were all squeezed in the parking lot. Some sort of fat bike convention. Shelly and Dave were running one MSF course each, at the same time. One in the classroom and one on the back lot. Plus, there was the usuall free cookout food that Cycles! gives away every weekend in the summer. Hmmm, it seemed like a big moto party. After about ten minutes of looking for Rob C, cheif of sales slime, and another 5 minutes reading and signing a long disclosure/libility/ pray-to-god form I helped JT push the ST out into the mess in the parking lot. We went over the the controls, I put the tank bag from the Hawk into the right saddlebag, and my wife put everything else into the left saddlebag. ( Thats nice.... ) Having helped push the ST out to the lot, I thought it best to have JT move it to the edge of the road, away from the 100+ bikes and 100+ people. He rode it like a bicycle! 'It cant be that heavy' I thought. Well I was wrong. As I sat on the ST, both feet down, all I could think was "big". Then I put one foot up. "Heavy" came to mind very quickly. With Cindy on the back -- was she on the back? Hard to tell with seat three times as large as a Hawk seat -- the bike seemed nearly out of control just idling on the side of the road. By 3000 rpm in second gear, all the weight seemed to dissappear. Even on bike with 4.1 miles on the odometer, slippery new tires, and pads that did not yet bite the disks, things seems smooth and sure. Cycles! is on a section of 128 that few folks ever ride. About 30 miles north of the computer concentration, about five miles north of where I95 splits away, 128 is a lighly travelled, two lane limited access highway. It goes through heavily forested sections of Hamilton, Manchester-by-the-Sea and Newbury on its way to Gloucester. On its way there, it meets 133, a road that winds from the sea about 30 miles inland to Andover. On its way it goes through many thoroughly New England spots. Perfect, if slow, sport touring sections. Cindy has no difficulty with speed. 3rd gear, 4th gear, purring along in top gear. This thing has less low rpm grunt that my Hawk. Lane changes were a new experience. A big heft is required to move this thing. Responds well though. No wallowing or complaint. Behind the fairing it was fairly quiet, but the helmet buffeting was non-trivial. Top gear car passing at 85mph was nearly effortless. Smooth, smooth, smooth. Not sure what the v4 sound reminds me of, but it is pleasant. If only the bars were not transmitting an endless buzz. The jump on to 133 caused me to be less than impressed with the brakes. Its a down hill, reversing camber, twice-reversing radius, decreasing radius turn. A real squeeze is needed on the front binder. The section of 133 we were on was tight, but too urban. The ST works ok in this section, but it shows its weight. We went by the clam shack oft featured in "Spencer for Hire" -- a place where you could really find "Spencer", his house was about 15 miles down 133. After putting through traffic for a while, we turned and went back to 128. About half way through the onramp, I yanked Cindy's wrist, our singal for "hold on tight". Head check left, time to find redline. Second gear gives a good shove. Third too. Fourth sees DoD speed with a short shift into top. On the way to 133 we saw no cops and very light traffic. Did not cross into DoD zone because the bike was too new. Well, now it had 25 miles on it, so it was ok. Tried some high effort lane changes, some wide sweeping turns. Time to wick it up? I went until the buffeting was threating to pull us off the seat. And stayed there. When I was comfortable with the wind and the steering, I looked down to find an indicated 135mph. Not bad for 2-up touring. Beverly comes fast at more than twice the posted limit. At the "get off in a mile" sign, I rolled off the throttle and coasted. I wanted to re-adjust to the coming slowness. It was a good idea: there were several manhole-sized patches of sand on the exit ramp. Back to the slow and heavy behavior. Cycles! is about a mile from 128. I could see even more cars stacked up outside right when I got off. I managed to thread the ST through the cars to the edge of the concrete pad out front. Heavy. It took way too much effort for Cindy and I to put the thing on the center stand. I am sure that if I used the side stand the ST would have been on its side within a minute. My demo opinion? Heavy. Put it on a diet. Smooth, comfortable, hardly notices the DoD speed. I'd buy on for about $3000 less than list, just like it is. Too much $ for the bike as it is.
Those who forward offensive posts to the sysadmin aren't curtailing anyones' freedom of speech. The neo-nazi movement has a right to make speeches, say anything they want. They do not have a right to have these speeches published by the N.Y. Times. That depends on the Times analysis of the economic and to somewhat extent newsworthy value of those speeches. Likewise to the sysadmin of this fellows system. If he feels his resources are being used in a manner that is not in his best interests, or are perhaps embarassing to his organization, he will act just as the New York Times does, not to be a conduit for these ideas. The poster is after all free-loading off of someone else's pocket book when he posts. He who controls the purse strings has the right to make the decision how he wants those funds spent or not spent. Noone is going to put the poster in jail, unless he bombs a local building as a symbol of his hatred. Freedom of Speech in no way equates to accessibility to conduits of information. The market of ideas has its own "natural selection" process that weeds out the ga-ga from the credible ideas that are of importance. Seth Rosenthal
FYI: The actual horizontal dot placement resoution of an HP deskjet is 1/600th inch. The electronics and dynamics of the ink cartridge, however, limit you to generating dots at 300 per inch. On almost any paper, the ink wicks more than 1/300th inch anyway. The method of depositing and fusing toner of a laster printer results in much less spread than ink drop technology. It doesn't take much investigation to see that the mechanical and electronic complement of a laser printer is more complex than inexpensive ink jet printers. Recall also that laser printers offer a much higher throughput: 10 ppm for a laser versus about 1 ppm for an ink jet printer. Something else to think about is the cost of consumables over the life of the printer. A 3000 page yield toner cartridge is about $US 75-80 at discount while HP high capacity (~500-1000 page yield) cartridges are about $US 22 at discount. It could be that over the life cycle of the printer that consumables for laser printers are less than ink jet printers. It is getting progressively closer between the two technologies. Laser printers are usually desinged for higher duty cycles in pages per month and longer product replacement cycles.
Hi, I have a problem when compiled Wcl 2.02 in SCO ODT 2.0: cc -c -Ox -I.. -I/usr/include Xt4GetResL.c Xt4GetResL.c Xt4GetResL.c(47) : error C2065: '_XtConstraintBit' : undefined *** Error code 1 Although I follow the instructions in file README_BUILD to build Wcl in SCO platform, this problem didn't resolve. So I have some questions related to this matter:
[questions and issues WRT congress raised and discussed} Dennis Replies; ... Dennis, why must you always see things in black and white terms? :-) -Tommy Mac ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tom McWilliams 517-355-2178 wk \\ As the radius of vision increases, 18084tm@ibm.cl.msu.edu 336-9591 hm \\ the circumference of mystery grows.
Evelyn Wells, on the 12 Apr 1993 11:43 CST wibbled: : Once again, this morning I pulled up to the designated motorcycle : parking area, only to find a cage pulled up behind the bikes. : If people don't double-park cars, why do they do it to motorcycles? : Never mind that rhetorical question, I know *why* they do it. : What I want to know is, what can I do about it? Carry pieces of : paper that say "Don't park your car in the motorcycle area!!" ? : Call the cops? Wait until they emerge from the building and berate : them until they beg forgiveness? : Does anyone else have this problem, and what do you do about it? : Evie I don't know if you have a local branch where you are, but the preferred method over here is to 'phone the IRA and tell them about the car and that it belongs to an MP who is on a Northern Ireland Government Committee. An hour or so later, and the car is no longer a problem. It's best not to park too close to it, though. -- Nick (the Vengeful Biker) DoD 1069 Concise Oxford Plastic M'Lud.
As the subject says. It has 70k and my brother-in-law wants $250. Please don't reply to me as I am posting this for him. Here's his numbers : 5pm-10pm 712 676 3669 daytime 712 269 1261
That's why the Zionists decided that Zion must be Gentile-rein. What?! They didn't?! You mean to tell me that the early Zionists actually granted CITIZENSHIP in the Jewish state to Christian and Muslim people, too? It seems, Elias, that your "first point to note" is wrong, so the rest of your posting isn't worth much, either. Ta ta...
There are also a couple or three places on West 45th between Fifth and Sixth. Harvey --
My impression -- it's not an area I've played with much -- is that the much-beloved NE567 is basically obsolete. If you want to detect a 1kHz tone, set a switched-capacitor filter chip to that frequency, feed your input to it, and see if anything comes out the other end. The NE567 was what you used when good clean bandpass filters were hard to do; nowadays they're easy, and the results are better.
Hi, I am programming in XView, SunOS 4.1.2 & OpenWindows 3.0. I would like to rotate some text and display it. I did read the FAQ in comp.windows.x but am not sure how do I translate it to XView. I would appreciate if someone can give me tips on how to do it. Thanx. - Mahendra. PS : As I am not a frequent news group reader, I would appreciate if answers/replies would be mailed to me. I will post a follow-up. --
We're talking about insurance agents from Bumf**k Illinois (ST.FARM is HQ'ed in Bloomington). What the hell do they know about cars... Both are sports cars... :-)
: Has anyone ever heard of a food product called "Space Food Sticks?" I remember those awful things. They were dry and crumbly, and I recall asking my third-grade teacher, Miss G'Francisco, how they kept the crumbs from floating around in zero-G. She had no clue. I have not seen anything like them in today's space program. Some Apollo technology is best forgotten. -- Ken Jenks, NASA/JSC/GM2, Space Shuttle Program Office kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (713) 483-4368
ACLU Official Policies. Policy 18, for example, opposes rating systems for motion pictures: "Industry sponsored ratings systems create the potential for constraining the creative process and thus contracting the marketplace of ideas. Despite the stated goal of providing guidance to parents, experience has shown that ratings inevitably have serious chilling effects on freedom of expression." In regards to the Pledge of Allegiance, the ACLU states in its Policy 84: "The insertion of the words `under God' into the Pledge of Allegiance is a violation of the constitutional principle of separation of Church and State." Policy 120 states that, "Military conscription under any circumstances is a violation of civil liberties and constitutional guarantees." The ACLU objects to the draft even during wartime because of the "anti-democratic power it gives government to wage war without support of the people." Policy 125 states, "The ACLU calls for a broad-based inquiry into war crimes within the widest possible definition of war crimes against humanity, and crimes against the peace, focusing upon the actions of the United States military and other combatants against the people of South Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, and North Vietnam." Policy 133 states, "The ACLU recognizes that US government reliance upon nuclear weaponry as a dominant element of foreign and domestic policy, while propounded as a defense of democracy, is in fact a great threat to civil liberties. Four decades of adherence to this policy has fundamentally altered the nature of our constitutional democratic process and poses a paramount threat to our civil liberties." Policy 217 objects to roadblocks "where drivers are stopped for sobriety tests" because they "violate Fourth Amendment principles." Policy 242 states the following on criminal sentencing: "The most appropriate correctional approach is reintegrating the offender into the community, and the goals of reintegration are furthered much more readily by working with the offender within the community than by incarceration. Probation should be authorized by the legislature in every case; exceptions to the principle are not favored, and any exceptions, if made, should be limited to the most serious of offenses, such as murder or treason." Bill Vojak vojak@icebucket.stortek.com NRA, ILA, Colorado Firearms Coalition ------------------------------------------------------------ The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER NOT!) The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER BIASED!)
I HATE long postings, but this turned out to be rather lengthy.... Overall Crime rate: It fell....just like that... Acquiring weapons in Norway: You can buy (almost) all kinds of weapons in Norway, BUT you must have a permit, and a good reason to get the permit.... If I would like to have a handgun, i would have to get an gun-licence from the police and to be a member of a gun-club. The police would check my criminal records for any SERIOUS crimes and/or records of SERIOUS mental diseases. Now, if a got my licence, I would have to be an active member of the gun -club for 6 months BEFORE I could collect my gun. It's a little like getting a drivers licence isn't it ??? You have to prove that you CAN drive before you are allowed to... Use of guns in crimes (in Norway): Some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners 'arms' for a long time, but these are rather the exeption. Most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes, and mostly short time befor the crime. Use of knives: It IS allowed to cary knifes in public, but not in your belt or 'open'. You (Americans) think it's ok to have a gun, but not to carry it open in public -rigth ?? Scandinavians ARE 'aggressive': We northeners are not as hot-livered as southeners, but when we decide to take action we DO. Ask ANY historian or millitary with an knowledge of europe.... (Or ask any German who served in Norway in WW2.....) Individual vs masses: Yes the individual is more important than the masses, but only to some extent.... Your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses ?? What happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of all the others ?? The issue: I believe the issue is GUNS, and gun-legislation. We shouldn't mix weapons and items that can serve as one.... IF i lived in Amerika I would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in HOME. But should it have to be like that ?? Do you think it's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) ?? If you believe it's smart/neccacery to have drivers-licence WHY do you think it should be free to buy guns ?? Disclaim-her: I'm not a pacifist or anti gun. I would defend my home, loved ones and country, but I don't view guns as neccities or toys. I HAVE done army service, and HAVE used a variaty of weapons, but wouldn't want to have one for self defence or because they 'feel good'.... This is not a .signature. It's marly a computergenerated text to waste bandwith and to bring down the evil Internet.
The supersonic booms hear a few months ago over I belive San Fran, heading east of what I heard, some new super speed Mach 25 aircraft?? What military based int he direction of flight are there that could handle a Mach 25aircraft on its landing decent?? Odd question??
Is this a joke? The legal way to serve a search warrant is to knock on the door. Tossing in a grenade to serve a search warrant violates the US Constitution and is hence, illegal. The BD complied with legal search warrants in the past. I do not understand why the BATF used an illegal means to serve their search warrant last February.
>This is turning into 'what's a moonbase good for', and I ought not >to post when I've a hundred some odd posts to go, but I would >think that the real reason to have a moon base is economic. > >Since someone with space industry will presumeably have a much >larger GNP than they would _without_ space industry, eventually, >they will simply be able to afford more stuff. If I read you right, you're saying in essence that, with a larger economy, nations will have more discretionary funds to *waste* on a lunar facility. That was certainly partially the case with Apollo, but real Lunar colonies will probably require a continuing military, scientific, or commercial reason for being rather than just a "we have the money, why not?" approach. Ah, but the whole point is that money spent on a lunar base is not wasted on the moon. It's not like they'd be using $1000 (1000R?) bills to fuel their moon-dozers. The money to fund a lunar base would be spent in the country to which the base belonged. It's a way of funding high-tech research, just like DARPA was a good excuse to fund various fields of research, under the pretense that it was crucial to the defense of the country, or like ESPRIT is a good excuse for the EC to fund research, under the pretense that it's good for pan-European cooperation. Now maybe you think that government-funded research is a waste of money (in fact, I'm pretty sure you do), but it does count as investment spending, which does boost the economy (and just look at the size of that multiplier :->).
I've recently become father of twins! I don't think I can afford to keep 2 bikes and 2 babies. Both babies are staying, so 1 of the Harleys is going. 1988 883 XLHD ~4000 mi. (hey, it was my wife's bike :-) 4speed, chain secondary, laced wheels, buckhorns, tachometer, saddlebags & supports, sissy bar, SE high-flow air cleaner dark candy red $3700
I had a friend in Pittsburgh who had a CB1000C with the dual-range tranny on it. He usually only used the "economy" range to get an overdrive sixth gear out of it. He had 59000 miles on it when it was stolen. It was recovered shortly after that, repaired, and, for all I know, it's still going strong. The CB1000C was a shaft-driven overbore version of the CB900 and was made for exactly one year (yep, head and base gaskets are VERY expensive). Helluva bike. A data point,
I have never worked with really small signals before and have a few questions about low level noise. I have noticed that the waveform synthesizer that I am using (Analogic 2020) has some relatively large common mode noise on it. I am using this synthesizer to 'null' out another transient waveform and am amplifying the difference (~200uV) several hundred times. The 2020 has about 1-3 mVp-p of common mode noise and this tends to make my measurements hard to repeat. (The noise is not quite in sync with line frequency, and on a spectrum analyzer, the main component is about 64Hz). How can I get rid of the noise? When I look at the spectrum using an HP 3582A (audio range analyzer), the noise goes away the minute I switch to 'isolation' on the input. I am guessing the anlayzer has a diff amp on the input since it will read accurately down to DC.
Well, does it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920, the fascist x-Soviet Armenian Government ordered, incited, assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people because of race, religion and national origin? As in the past in Turkiye, and today in Azerbaijan, for utopic and idiotic causes the Armenians brought havoc to their neighbors. A short-sighted and misplaced nationalistic fervor with a wrong agenda and anachronistic methods the Armenians continue to become pernicious for the region. As usual, they will be treated accordingly by their neighbors. Nagorno-Karabag is a mountainous enclave that lies completely within Azerbaijan with no border or history whatsoever connected to x-Soviet Armenia. Besides the geographical aspect, Nagorno-Karabag is the historic homeland and the 'cradle' of the artistic and literary heritage of Azerbaijan, which renders the Armenian claims preposterous, even lunatic. And we still demand: 1. that the x-Soviet Armenian Government, as the heirs of the Armenian dictatorship, recognize the Turkish Genocide; 2. that x-Soviet Armenia return the historic homeland to the Turkish and Kurdish people; 3. that the x-Soviet Armenian Government make material reparations for their heinous and unspeakable crime to the victims of the Turkish Genocide; 4. that all world governments officially recognize the Turkish Genocide and Turkish territorial rights and refuse to succumb to all Armenian political pressure. The awareness of the Turkish people of the necessity of solidarity in the efforts to pursue the Turkish Cause is seen by the victims of the first genocide of the 20th century as a positive step. Now what would you do? Source: 'The Sunday Times,' 1 March 1992 (a British Weekly, written by Thomas Goltz, from Agdam, Azerbaijan.) ARMENIAN SOLDIERS MASSACRE HUNDREDS OF FLEEING FAMILIES. The spiralling violence gripping the outer republics of the former Soviet Union gained new impetus yesterday with cold-blooded slaughter of hundreds of women and children in war-racked Nagorno-Karabakh. Survivors reported that Armenian soldiers shot and bayoneted more than 450 Azeris, many of them women and children, who were fleeing an attack on their town. Hundreds, possibly thousands, were missing and feared dead. The attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending the women and children. They then turned their guns on the terrified refugees. The few survivors later described what happened:" That's when the real slaughter began," said Azer Hajiev, one of three soldiers to survive. "The Armenians just shot and shot. And then they came in and started carving up people with their bayonets and knives." " They were shooting, shooting, shooting", echoed Rasia Aslanova, who arrived in Agdam with other women and children who made their way through Armenian lines. She said her husband, Kayun, and a son-in-law were killed in front of her. Her daughter was still missing. One boy who arrived in Agdam had an ear sliced off. The survivors said 2000 others, some of whom had fled separately, were still missing in the gruelling terrain; many could perish from their wounds or the cold. By late yesterday, 479 deaths had been registered at the morgue in Agdam's morgue, and 29 bodies had been buried in the cemetery. Of the seven corpses I saw awaiting burial, two were children and three were women, one shot through the chest at point blank range. Agdam hospital was a scene of carnage and terror. Doctors said they had 140 patients who escaped slaughter, most with bullet injuries or deep stab wounds. Nor were they safe in Agdam. On friday night rockets fell on the city which has a population of 150,000, destroying several buildings and killing one person. Serdar Argic
I'd like to point out that I was in error - "Terminator" began posting only six months before he purchased his first firearm, according to private email from him. I can't produce an archived posting of his earlier than January 1992, and he purchased his first firearm in March 1992. I guess it only seemed like years. Back to your regularly scheduled flame fest.
>evidence of the 'yeast connection', I cannot guarantee their safety. >For their incompetence, ripping off their lips is justified as far as >I am concerned. This doesn't sound like Candida Albicans to me.
Right on, it is every citizen's right and duty to FORCE government accountability. (anecdotes deleted) Also keep in mind that cops will LIE in court to get their way! (don't get me started by asking how I know ;) If you decide to fight you have to be ready for this as well as devise strategy to make the cop's story doubtful in the judge/jury's mind.
If a large Malmute counts then yes someone has heard(and seen) such an irresponsible childish stunt. The dog needed assistance straightening out once on board. The owner would lift the front legs of dog and throw them over the driver/pilots shoulders. Said dog would get shit eating grin on its face and away they'd go. The dogs ass was firmly planted on the seat. My dog and this dog actively seek each other out at camping party's. They hate each other. I think it's something personal.
You are probably referring to the products of Opto Diode Corp. 750 Mitchell Road Newbury Park Ca 91320 805 499-0335 The make some amazing IRLED's. The really high-powered devices are arrays of 3, 6, or 9, LED's on a TO-66 header. The 9-chip model puts out 6.5 Watts in response to a 5 Amp, 10 uS. pulse at a .5% duty cycle. I think these are designed as illuminators for IR vision systems.
[After a small refresh Hasan got on the track again.] |> |> I get the impression Hasan realized he goofed and is now |> |> trying to drop the thread. Let him. It might save some |> |> miniscule portion of his sorry face. |> Not really. since i am a logical person who likes furthering himself |> from any "name calling", i started trashing any article that contains |> such abuses without responding to, and sometimes not even reading articles |> written by those who acquired such bad habits from bad company! |> |> Ah, but in my followup on the subject (which you, by the way, never bothered |> responding to..) there was no name-calling. Hence the assumption. |> Do you feel more up to it now, so that we might have an answer? |> Or, to refresh your memory, does the human right issue in the area |> apply to Palestinians only? Also, do you claim there is such a thing as |> forfeiting a human right? If that's possible, then explain to the rest of |> us how there can exist any such thing? |> |> Use your logic, and convince us! This is your golden chance! |> Jonas Flygare, well , ok. let's see what Master of Wisdom, Mr. Jonas Flygare, wrote that can be wisdomely responded to : Are you calling names, or giving me a title? If the first, read your paragraph above, if not I accept the title, in order to let you get into the um, well, debate again. |> [hasan] |> |> [flax] |> |> |> [hasan] |> |> |> In case you didNOT know, Palestineans were there for 18 months. |> |> |> and they are coming back |> |> |> when you agree to give Palestineans their HUMAN-RIGHTS. |> |> |> Afterall, human rights areNOT negotiable. |> |> |> Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't the right to one's life _also_ |> |> |> a 'human right'?? Or does it only apply to palestinians? |> |> No. it is EVERYBODY's right. However, when a killer kills, then he is giving |> |> up -willingly or unwillingly - his life's right to the society. |> |> the society represented by the goverment would exercise its duty by |> |> depriving the killer off his life's right. |> So then it's all right for Israel to kill the people who kill Israelis? |> The old 'eye for an eye' thinking? Funny, I thought modern legal systems |> were made to counter exactly that. So what do you expect me to tell you to tell you, Master of Wsidom, ^^^ ------------------------------------------------------------------ If you insist on giving me names/titles I did not ask for you could at least spell them correctly. /sigh. when you are intentionally neglecting the MOST important fact that the whole israeli presence in the occupied territories is ILLEGITIMATE, and hence ALL their actions, their courts, their laws are illegitimate on the ground of occupied territories. No, I am _not_ neglecting that, I'm merely asking you whether the existance of Israeli citicens in the WB or in Gaza invalidates those individuals right to live, a (as you so eloquently put it) human right. We can get back to the question of which law should be used in the territories later. Also, you have not adressed my question if the israelis also have human rights. What do you expect me to tell you, Master of Wisdom, when I did explain my point in the post, that you "responded to". The point is that since Israel is occupying then it is automatically depriving itself from some of its rights to the Occupied Palestineans, which is exactly similar the automatic deprivation of a killer from his right of life to the society. If a state can deprive all it's citizens of human rights by its actions, then tell me why _any_ human living today should have any rights at all? |> |> In conjugtion with the above, when a group of people occupies others |> |> territories and rule them by force, then this group would be -willingly or |> |> unwillingly- deprived from some of its rights. |> Such as the right to live? That's nice. The swedish government is a group |> of people that rule me by force. Does that give me the right to kill |> them? Do you consider yourself that you have posed a worthy question here ? Worthy or not, I was just applying your logic to a related problem. Am I to assume you admit it wouldn't hold? |> |> What kind of rights and how much would be deprived is another issue? |> |> The answer is to be found in a certain system such as International law, |> |> US law, Israeli law ,... |> And now it's very convenient to start using the legal system to prove a |> point.. Excuse me while I throw up. ok, Master of Wisdom is throwing up. You people stay away from the screen while he is doing it ! Oh did you too watch that comedy where they pipe water through the telephone? I'll let you in on a secret... It's not for real.. Take my word for it. |> |> It seems that the US law -represented by US State dept in this case- |> |> is looking to the other way around when violence occurs in occupied territories. |> |> Anyway, as for Hamas, then obviously they turned to the islamic system. |> And which system do you propose we use to solve the ME problem? The question is NOT which system would solve the ME problem. Why ? because any system can solve it. The laws of minister Sharon says kick Palestineans out of here (all palestine). I asked for which system should be used, that will preserve human rights for all people involved. I assumed that was obvious, but I won't repeat that mistake. Now that I have straightened that out, I'm eagerly awaiting your reply. Joseph Weitz (administrator responsible for Jewish colonization) said it best when writing in his diary in 1940: "Between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both peoples together in this country.... We shall not achieve our goal ^^^ ^^^ of being an independent people with the Arabs in this small country. The only solution is a Palestine, at least Western Palestine (west of the Jordan river) without Arabs.... And there is no other way than to transfer the Arabs from here to the neighbouring countries, to transfer all of them; not one village, not one tribe, should be left.... Only after this transfer will the country be able to absorb the millions of our own brethren. There is no other way out." DAVAR, 29 September, 1967 ("Courtesy" of Marc Afifi) Just a question: If we are to disregard the rather obvious references to getting Israel out of ME one way or the other in both PLO covenant and HAMAS charter (that's the english translations, if you have other information I'd be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to a _private_ paper even older? I'm not going to get into the question if he wrote the above, but it's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have their share of fanatics. Guess what..? Those are not the people that will make any lasting peace in the region. Ever. It's those who are willing to make a tabula rasa and start over, and willing to give in order to get something back. "We" and "our" either refers to Zionists or Jews (i donot know which). Well, i can give you an answer, you Master of Wisdom, I will NOT suggest the imperialist israeli system for solving the ME problem ! I think that is fair enough . No, that is _not_ an answer, since I asked for a system that could solve the problem. You said any could be used, then you provided a contradiction. Guess where that takes your logic? To never-never land. "The greatest problem of Zionism is Arab children". -Rabbi Shoham. Oh, and by the way, let me add that these cute quotes you put at the end are a real bummer, when I try giving your posts any credit. --
I have an applicationShell which uses a colormap created with XCreateColormap() and uses all of the colors available for my 8-bit display. When I move the cursor over the window I get the "Technicolor Effect" - which is fine. Basically, my program works. My problem/question is: When I popup a dialogShell to prompt the user for some input I want the XmNdialogStyle to be set to XmDIALOG_PRIMARY_APPLICATION_MODAL. The result is that if my cursor is over the dialogShell I get my colormap, but if the cursor is over the applicationShell (or any window other than the dialogShell) I get the default colormap. But I'd like it so that if my cursor is over _any_ window of my application, I get my colormap. Any suggestions? Thanks,
Refer to patents by JAMES HARRIS ROGERS: 958,829; 1,220,005; 1,322,622; 1,349,103; 1,315,862; 1,349,104; 1,303,729; 1,303,730; 1,316,188 He details methods of underground and underwater wireless communications. For a review, refer to _Electrical_Experimenter_, March 1919 and June 1919. Rogers' methods were used extensively during the World War, and was unclassified after the war. Supposedly, the government rethought this soon after, and Rogers was convieniently forgotten. The bottom line is that all antennas that are grounded send HALF of their signal THRU the ground. The half that travels thru space is quickly dissapated (by the square of the distance), but that which travels thru the ground does not disapate at all. Furthermore, the published data showed that when noise drowned out regular reception, the underground antennas would recieve virtually noise-free. IF you find this hard to believe, then refer to the work of the man who INVENTED wireless: Tesla. Tesla confirmed that Rogers' methods were correct, while Hertzian wave theory was completely "abberant". ---- ET "Tesla was 100 years ahead of his time. Perhaps now his time comes."
Ok, I was under the impression that it accepted digital input. I still don't know for sure if it accepts BOTH interlaced and non-interlaced as I have gotten conflicting info.
I'm giving up hardware design and am selling my Oscilloscope: BK Precision Model 1541B 40 MHZ Dual-Trace Barely Used $450 firm (Fry's sells it for $589+tax) Prefer people in Silicon Valley, so I don't have to ship it.
I'd hate to rehash an old thread, but... Would someone kindly quote a prices that a dealer quotes for a Civic EX, and Escort GT. Also, I'm a assuming that the MX-3 was the V-6, so go ahead and look that up, too. If someone has one of those yearly buyers' guides that give a low quote price, please quote them, too. Then find the the SC1 base price. Thanks.
God forgive me for being an American who pays taxes to a government that commits atrocities like the Waco Massacre of 1993. -- Dave Feustel N9MYI <feustel@netcom.com>
My Honda has a cable release that can be locked out with the ignition key. The valet key can be left with someone and will NOT unlock the trunk or enable the cable release.
Does the Proventil inhaler for asthma relief fall into the steroid or nonsteroid category? Looking at the product literature it's not clear.
Not to mention last year's Weaver affair. Anyway, here's how I see the Waco affair; I'd be interested in other peoples' interpretations... 1. Koresh and his people were basically minding their own business. 2. Some weapons violations may have been committed and I wouldn't have disapproved of prosecuting him for those violations. However, I think the BATF was criminal for starting negotiations with a military style assault and for firing into a house where there were children and other noncombatants. 3. I don't see they couldn't just leave a token guard on the place and wait the BDs out; I don't approve of the tear gas approach and, if it caused the fire to be started, I think the FBI agent responsible should spend 10-20 years in jail. 4. However, if Koresh's response to the tear gas was to kill everyone there, I hold him largely responsible for their deaths.
The ADC is an organization of Arab-*AMERICANS*. Let me see...you're saying that "most if not all" Arab-AMERICANS should be spied on? You're also saying that "most if not all" Arab-AMERICANS should be views as a national security threat to Israel (and the US, as you gratuitously imply in your reference to the WTC bombing, in which no Arab-AMERICANS were involved)? By inference, can we assume that you think that anyone of Arab lineage anywhere in the world poses a threat to Israel and, therefore, should be spied on? Perhaps, then, on the basis of Pollard spy case (not to mention the Rosenbergs, etc.) you think that all Jewish Americans should be spied on by the ADC. Oh, never mind; this whole spying case has obviously so convoluted your sense of right or wrong in these matters that I have no wish confuse you further. So the LA times reporter who had information about him sold to the South African government was involved in "anti-Israel activity or propaganda"? Are we to infer that the simple act of reporting an event in a newspaper constitutes "anti-Israel activity or propaganda"? Or was it South Africa? The LA times reporter was based in South Africa, after all.
Anyone have any opinions on fairly recent model Alfa Spiders ( 86-> ) Reliablilty for what their class ( I'm not talking Alfa vs. Toyota corrola which is more relaible ) As far as I can discern, in recent years, there are 3 levels with all basically the same mechanical aspects. Please email any responses
Sorry I can't help you with your question, but I do have a comment to make concerning aftermarket A/C units. I have a Frost-King or Frost-Temp (forget which) aftermarket unit on my Cavalier, and am quite unhappy with it. The fan is noisy, and doesn't put out much air. I will never have an aftermarket A/C installed in any of my vehicles again. I just can't trust the quality and performance after this experience. - les
If anyone is keeping a list of the potential contributors, you can put me down for $1000.00 under the conditions above
Hi, I just got XFree86 running on my pc with Consensys and encountered a few minor (I hope) probems. The pc is hooked up to a LAN where I want remote X applications to connect to my X-server. I believe the command to permit this is xhost. When I'm logged on my pc and type 'xhost + ' , I get the error message saying "You must be on local machine to enable access". what does this mean ? ain't I already on the local machine? Another problem I have is with the mouse movement. I find that the mouse cursor moves extremely slow and choppy. How can I make the mouse cursor move more accurately? thank in advance. Any help is much appreciated. please send replies to christy@alex.qc.ca.
Hello, recently I have been printing out a lot of files on school's laser printer and feeling guilty about it. Please help me by showing me where to get a post script viewer for X-windows. Thank you for your help.
Based on the same reasons? You mean you were opposed to US intervention in Somalia because since Somalia is a European country instead of the third world, the desire to help Somalia is racist? I don't think this "same reason" applies to Somalia at all. The whole point is that Somalia _is_ a third world country, and we were more willing to send troops there than to Bosnia--exactly the _opposite_ of what the "fixation on European countries" theory would predict. (Similarly, the desire to help Muslims being fought by Christians is also exactly the opposite of what that theory predicts.) I'm referring to people who want to help at all, of course. You don't see people sending out press releases "help Bosnian Serbs with ethnic cleansing! The Muslim presence in the Balkans should be eliminated now!" (Well, except for some Serbs, but I admit that the desire of Serbs in America to help the Serbian side probably _is_ because those are people more like them.) -- "On the first day after Christmas my truelove served to me... Leftover Turkey! On the second day after Christmas my truelove served to me... Turkey Casserole that she made from Leftover Turkey. [days 3-4 deleted] ... Flaming Turkey Wings! ... -- Pizza Hut commercial (and M*tlu/A*gic bait)
I know nothing about statistics, but what significance does the relatively small population growth rate have where the sampling period is so small (at the end of 1371)? Is it adequete to suggest a trend or is it just noise?
I've just read Richard Langley's latest "Navstar GPS Constellation Status". It states that the latest satellite was placed in Orbit Plane Position C-3. There is already one satellite in that position. I know that it's almost ten years since that satellite was launched but it's still in operation so why not use it until it goes off? Why not instead place the new satellite at B-4 since that position is empty and by this measure have an almost complete GPS-constellation (23 out of 24)? /Thomas ================================================================================ Ericsson Telecom, Stockholm, Sweden
Sounds as though his heart's in the right place, but he is not adept at expressing it. What you received was _meant_ to be a profound apology. Apologies delivered by overworked shy people often come out like that...
Snort. Ah, there go my sinuses again. Oh, wow. A classic textbook. Hey, they laughed at Einstein, too! Yeah, I'll bet. Tomorrow, the world. Listen, uncontrolled studies like this are worthless. I'm sure you are. You sound like the typical hysteric/hypochondriac who responds to "miracle cures." Yeah, "it makes sense to me", so of course it should be taken seriously. Snort. Yeah, "it sounds reasonable to me". Oh, really? _What_ tests? Immune-compromised, my ass. More like credulous malingerer. This is a psychiatric syndrome. You know, it's a shame that a drug like itraconazole is being misused in this way. It's ridiculously expensive, and potentially toxic. The trouble is that it isn't toxic enough, so it gets abused by quacks. The only good thing about nystatin is that it's (relatively) cheap and when taken orally, non-toxic. But oral nystatin is without any systemic effect, so unless it were given IV, it would be without any effect on your sinuses. I wish these quacks would first use IV nystatin or amphotericin B on people like you. That would solve the "yeast" problem once and for all. Perhaps a little Haldol would go a long way towards ameliorating your symptoms. Are you paying for this treatment out of your own pocket? I'd hate to think my insurance premiums are going towards this.
Deltabox (tm) is a registered trademark of Yamaha, used to describe their aluminum perimeter frame design, used on the FZR400 and FZR1000. In cross-section, it has a five-sided appearance, so it probably really should be called a "Pentabox". -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hi folks Say, I'm new to R5 and have one quick question. In using xon ( xon <machine_name> ) , I notice that it always comes up with a very small window . I'm pretty sure its the default font. My xterms all work normally. Is xon supposed to read your .Xresources for a font size ? xrdb -q appears to show the right stuff. I can use xon with arguments such as xterm -fn 10x20 etc and everything is correct. Of course you could always do a simple script to do this , but I have a feeling I'm missing something simple here. Comments / suggestions appreciated. Thanks in advance
I thought that the Clipper Chip that was posted to t.p.g (sorry, I lost the original post) was a joke. I really did. I didn't believe it for a second. But on the way to work this morning, I heard about it on NPR. This scares me almost as much as the doublespeak emanating from the FBI and BATF in Waco.
I am looking for advice on buying a susuki GS1100E. does anyone out there know about any inherent flaws the bike may have or problems i should look for? what about insurance rates (is this bike blacklisted)? also, as a person who has never ridden a motorcycle yet is buying a 1100 to start off with.... am I crazy? I have been told by some people to start out small.... and by others that i am lage enough to handle an 1100 right off from the start (6'4" 210 pounds) because some others might be a tad bit small. Oh yeah, one more question. Anybody in the chicago area know of any good instruction schools or programs where i could get aquanted before i just go buy one and kill myself getting it home. thanks, brian
a What about positional uncertainties in S-L 1993e? I assume we know where and what Galileo is doing within a few meters. But without the HGA, don't we have to have some pretty good ideas, of where to look before imaging? If the HGA was working, they could slew around in near real time (Less speed of light delay). But when they were imaging toutatis???? didn't someone have to get lucky on a guess to find the first images? Also, I imagine S-L 1993e will be mostly a visual image. so how will that affect the other imaging missions. with the LGA, there is a real tight allocation of bandwidth. It may be premature to hope for answers, but I thought i'd throw it on the floor.
I love the idea of progressive developmental prizes, but the assumption has been all along that only the U.S. Gummint could fund the prizes. It wouldn't and couldn't do such a thing ... BUT ... An eccentric billionaire COULD offer such a prize or series of prizes. Anyone know H. Ross Perot or Bill Gates personally?
Actually, that is no longer true. In the last few years Congress has ammended laws to provide whatever is needed. Note that both Spacehab and Comet are funded this way. The problems aren't legal nor technical. The problem is NASA's culture. Allen
It has been known for quite a while that the earth is actually more pear shaped than globular/spherical. Does anyone make a "globe" that is accurate as to actual shape, landmass configuration/Long/Lat lines etc.? Thanks in advance. -- bill@xpresso.UUCP (Bill Vance), Bothell, WA rwing!xpresso!bill
Hey, what do we look like, a parts store? Has it ever occurred to you to visit your dealer and fork out the bucks for a new one? What are the chances of someone happening to have a '92 part laying around, much less one in working condition? Sheesh, some edu's. Besides, I only have the right side inverted GSX-R fork. It's already been converted into a floor lamp.
Hi there, I am looking for a wide band analog time delay (not phase delay) variable from 200 microseconds to 2 milliseconds.
. . . ^^^ The Syrians? Iranian agents? Or just Israeli invaders? -- @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ --------------- Gary Bradski I'net: bradski@park.bu.edu | reverberate | Cognitive and Neural Systems --------------- Boston University. | V V 111 Cummington St, Boston MA 02215 ^ Y 617/ 353-6426 ^ ^ |
I got a male Mallard duck in the chest once. It was like being kicked by my karate instructor. No accident, but my eyes were tearing so hard, and I was wheezing so loudly, that it's quite remarkable that I was able to come to a stop with the rubber side up. The duck, BTW, lived, and seemed quite healthy, though we both sat by the roadside and shook our heads for a few minutes. The bruise went from my right collar bone all the way down to my belly button. Regards, Charles DoD0.001 RZ350
SP> From: paulson@tab00.larc.nasa.gov (Sharon Paulson) SP> to describe here. I have a fourteen year old daugter who experienced SP> a seizure on November 3, 1992 at 6:45AM after eating Kellog's Frosted SP> Flakes. SP> Well, we were going along fine and the other morning, April 5, she had SP> a bowl of another Kellog's frosted kind of cereal, Fruit Loops (I am SP> When I mentioned what she ate the first time as a possible reason for SP> the seizure the neurologist basically negated that as an idea. Now SP> after this second episode, so similar in nature to the first, even SP> he is scratching his head. There's no data that sugar-coated cereals cause seizures. I haven't even seen anything anecdotal on it. Given how common they are eaten - do you know any child or adolescent who *doesn't* eat the stuff? - I think that if there were a relationship we would know it by now. Also, there's nothing weird in those cereals. As far as the brain is concerned (except for a few infantile metabolic disorders such as galactosemia), sugar is sugar, regardless if it is coated on cereal, sprinkled onto cereal, or dissolved in soda, coffee or whatever. There was some interest a few years ago in aspartame lowering seizure thresholds, but I don't believe anything ever came of it.
I think the point is being missed - that it is apparantly acceptable for Big Government (Big Brother?) to use TANKS to control the people, as long as they don't use the BIG GUN (but everything else is allright...). Tanks deployed against civilians, let alone FIRING on them with crew served weaponry (a .50 Heavy Machine Gun is crew-served) is something both our press and government howl about instantly when done in some other country. Against civilians that have, at most, one-shot-at-a-time LIGHT small arms. Certainly nothing that places the people in or behind the tank in any real danger. Molotov coctails? A round from a rifle or pistol deals with anybody approaching with one of those. And "snipers" too often turn out to be strays from other cops/guard/army gunfire. I don't know about the other people in this group (or on the net) but the idea of tanks being used to control civilians, in anything that pretends to be a free society is outrageous. When Big Government feels it is necessary to use that kind of force to stomp out protests (even violent) of the citizens, that suggests that the government is totally out of control, since that is effectively the government declaring war on its own people. If the government was living up to its responsibility, government of the people BY THE PEOPLE, not the 'lords' and other elites who want to keep their good thing going, the citizens wouldn't feel the need to be resorting to acts that need to be squashed with a military boot. People do things like that because they have become convinced that it is the only option that remains, other attempts to have grievances redressed have been ignored. And yes, there is a criminal element that will exploit this, but the fact remains that the government has been unresponsive or such acts wouldn't be apt to happen. Still not an excuse to open up on civilians with tanks, heavy machine guns, or whatever. Its the old 'might makes right' philosophy that is the hallmark of a government going rogue: They don't like it? Tough. We will simply squash them under an iron boot. Actually addressing their grievances in other than token fashion with huge volumes of hot air is just too inconvenient... Sort of a variation on mushroom management: Keep them in the dark, Smother them with shit, and Crush them when ready... And these are the folks that many liberals are trying to arrange things so that they will have a MONOPOLY on coercive force (firearms that are than expensive toys...) by gutting the Bill of Rights (cuz it just isn't PROGRESSIVE or doesn't fit in with MODERN THINKING anymore)... Unbelievable. And I do believe amid the smoke, confusion, etc of a real riot situation, that it would be POSSIBLE for a tank to get away with firing the main gun into a building at close range? One would hear an explosion among many explosions. It is loud, but it is not going to stand out like a 1000 pound bomb or a tactical nuke. There would be a hole blown in the wall, and some rubble, but with tanks knocking over walls, and other sources of buildings turning into rubble, and other covering racket such as gunfire, including 50's tacking away, it would not stand out that much, and could be explained by "musta been a gas leak... ". I think it could be done and not be reported under such conditions - it is POSSIBLE. It is not like a tank driving down a quiet street on a Sunday afternoon, turning and firing, you know. THAT would stand out, and be pretty impossible to cover up.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ I just wanted to point out that some of the food, particularly the soups, are prepared in a big batch, so the restaurant won't be able to take the MSG out of it. Sometimes its pretty hard to find out if this is the case or not.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't threaten to rip your lips off, did I? Snort. Duh. Listen: thrush is a recognized clinical syndrome with definite characteristics. If you have thrush, you have thrush, because you can see the lesions and do a culture and when you treat it, it generally responds well, if you're not otherwise immunocompromised. Noring's anal-retentive idee fixe on having a fungal infection in his sinuses is not even in the same category here, nor are these walking neurasthenics who are convinced they have "candida" from reading a quack book. So?
Can someone recommend how to ship a motorcycle from San Francisco to Seattle? And how much might it cost? I remember a thread on shipping. If someone saved the instructions on bike prep, please post 'em again, or email. Thanks,
We are not at the end of the Space Age, but only at the end of Its beginning. That space exploration is no longer a driver for technical innovation, or a focus of American cultural attention is certainly debatable; however, technical developments in other quarters will always be examined for possible applications in the space area and we can look forward to many innovations that might enhance the capabilities and lower the cost of future space operations. The Dream is Alive and Well.
I had exactly the same problem with a 1981 Horizon. Third gear would just disengage. Engine would rev up. Kind of disconcerting. I sold that car quite a few years back but the memory of that tranny sticks with me. It also had a clutch chatter in first that the dealer could not fix. If the lemon law had been in place then, that car would have been covered. I have had several Jap cars since then (figuring the Horizon was my contribution to the American Auto Companies), and have never seen any bad behavior with the exception of a Toyota Tercel with a bit of clutch chatter that they did fix on the first try. Anyway, from that day forward, I have sworn that I would never purchase another American car with a standard. American manufacturers don't have a clue on how to manufacture five speed transmissions and have been doing the automatics much longer and on many more cars. However, I hate automatics, so I am still buying Jap cars. Not sure this is any help, but other cars do this too. Cheers, Larry -- @@ Larry Rogers * @@@ larry_rogers@dg.com * Big Brother @@@ &&& larry@boris.webo.dg.com * is Watching @@ && Data General 508-870-8441 * The opinions contained herein are my own, and do not reflect the opinions of Data General or anyone else, but they should.
What I don't understand is why Yep. They are popular vehicles. You don't see a lot of previous model year ones sitting on dealer's lots for any lenghth of time after the new ones are out. The things sell, they are popular. Because they are popular, and high-priced new, they are high price used, very simple. I knew they were overpriced when I bought it... I knew they had a terrible reliability record when I bought it. But I didn't expect anything like I got, especially with a dealer network unable to repair it. Personal experience has quickly cured me of my infatuation with the machine.
It was for the purpose of establishing a state, not an exclusive state. If the state was to be exclusive, it would not have 400 000 arab citizens. And no, I do not consider the purchase of land a hostile action. When someone wants to buy land, and someone else is willing to sell it, at a mutually agreeable price, then that is commerce. It is not a hostile action leading to war. Oh, you mean like both Jews and Arabs being citizens? The arabs who stayed are now citizens, with as much right to choose who they vote for as the Jews. Huh? The people who left, did so voluntarily. There is no reason for Israel to let them in. Israel got no western aid in 1948, nor in 1949 or 50...It still granted citizenship to those arabs who remained. And how is granting citizenship a facade? Try again, you tell me what its isn't, but you fail to establish what it is. Also, Jews did have history in Israel for over a thousand years. There were lots of Jews slaughtered by Crusaders in Israel. There was a thriving community in Gaza city from roughly 1200-1500. Jews were a majority in Jerusalem from 1870 or so onwards. Does that make the land Jewish? Adam Adam Shostack adam@das.harvard.edu
"return_place" is probably incorrect. It should be a pointer, not an integer. XGetWindowProperty() allocates memory, copies the data there, and returns a pointer to the memory. You should free the memory when you're done.
I'm trying to write some code that lets me draw lines and do rubber-band boxes in Motif/X. I'm running on an 8-bit display for which I've created a colormap and am using almost all of the colors. I want to draw the lines in a drawing area widget -- a widget in which I'm displaying a bitmap using XPutImage(). If doesn't matter if the lines I draw interactively stay around when the window is refreshed. Currently, to draw interactively, I begin with: /* drawIndex is an colortable index I reserve for the Foreground */ /* my_default_bg_color is the color index for the background of my image */ palette_colors[drawIndex].red = palette_colors[my_default_bg_color].red; palette_colors[drawIndex].green = palette_colors[my_default_bg_color].green; palette_colors[drawIndex].blue = palette_colors[my_default_bg_color].blue; XStoreColors( myDisplay, my_cmap, &palette_colors[DrawIndex], 1); XFlush( myDisplay); XSetFunction( myDisplay, gc, GXxor); XSetForeground( myDisplay, gc, drawIndex); Then to draw I do: XDrawLine( myDisplay, XtWindow( drawingArea1), gc, x1, y1, x2, y2); XFlush( myDisplay); And when I'm all done, to return things to normal I do: XSetFunction( myDisplay, gc, GXcopy); What I'd like to happen is for the lines I draw to be the inverse of whatever I'm drawing over. Instead what happens is I get white lines. If the lines are over a white background - nothing shows up. If the lines are over a black area - nothing shows up! It's very strange. But the GXxor function seems right - since if I do a rubber-banding box, it erases and redraws itself correctly (ie. not disturbing the underlying image). Any suggestions what I'm doing wrong?
Source: Hassan Arfa, "The Kurds," (London, 1968), pp. 25-26. "When the Russian armies invaded Turkey after the Sarikamish disaster of 1914, their columns were preceded by battalions of irregular Armenian volunteers, both from the Caucasus and from Turkey. One of these was commanded by a certain Andranik, a blood-thirsty adventurer. These Armenian volunteers committed all kinds of excesses, more than six hundred thousand Kurds being killed between 1915 and 1916 in the eastern vilayets of Turkey." Serdar Argic
You moved from Alabama to California? My sympathies. Make sure that they have all maintenance records. Oil should be changed every 3 months. The mileage on the cars is fine. Be sure that these have the 16 valve engine. The 8 valve 318 is a BMW in name only. Didn't you have a line on a '89 325i for 12K? Jump on it.
I'm no expert at UPS's, but you said something that made it sound like you didn't realize something. On a typical UPS (well, on ours, anyway), there is NO switchover from AC to DC. All the protected equipment is ALWAYS running from the batteries (via an inverter), with the usual condition of also having them on charge. If the power fails, big deal - the computers never see it (until the batteries start to droop, but there's something like 60 car-sized batteries in that cabinet, so it takes a while). If you were gonna run the guts on straight DC instead of an inverter, why not do it all the time? Then there'd be no switchover to screw things up, and no having to sense the failure fast. Just keep the DC on charge when the power is on, and it'll be there in zero time when you "need" it.
I'm not sure, but it almost sounds like they can't figure out where the _nucleus_ is within the coma. If they're off by a couple hundred miles, well, you can imagine the rest...
Here's the scoop. When you get your home brew receiver working, would you be willing to share it with the rest of us? I always wanted to build my own but never have the time to fool around and design it. pin 1: signal ground pin 2: signal pin 3: always hot +6 volts pin 4: +6 volts, hot only when preamp is turned on pin 5: infrared repeater connectors The infrared repeater jacks on the back of the preamp are not connected to anything inside the preamp except the 5 pin connector pin #5. There is a 150 ohm resistor between the two jacks, with a 1.5K from pin 5 to ground. The signal pin #2 in the preamp is summed with the built in IR receiver. They use a chip called CX20106A and a BJT to amplify the signal. I would imagine the logical way would be to duplicate this circuit and use it as the external receiver. If you need more info, let me know.
Referring to notes from the personal diary of Russian General L. Odishe Liyetze on the Turkish front, he wrote, "On the nights 11-12 March, 1918 alone Armenian butchers bayoneted and axed to death 3000 Muslims in areas surrounding Erzincan. These barbars threw their victims into pits, most likely dug according to their sinister plans to extinguish Muslims, in groups of 80. My adjutant counted and unearthed 200 such pits. This is an act against our world of civilization." On March 12, 1918 Lieut-colonel Griyaznof wrote (from an official Russian account of the Turkish genocide), "Roads leading to villages were littered with bayoneted torsos, dismembered joints and carved out organs of Muslim peasants... alas! mainly of women and children." Source: Doc. Dr. Azmi Suslu, "Russian View on the Atrocities Committed by the Armenians Against the Turks," Ankara Universitesi, Ankara, 1987, pp. 45-53. "Document No: 77," Archive No: 1-2, Cabin No: 10, Drawer No: 4, File No: 410, Section No: 1578, Contents No: 1-12, 1-18. (Acting Commander of Erzurum and Deveboynu regions and Commander of the Second Erzurum Artillery Regiment Prisoner of War, Lieutenant Colonel Toverdodleyov) "The things I have heard and seen during the two months, until the liberation of Erzurum by the Turks, have surpassed all the allegations concerning the vicious, degenerate characteristic of the Armenians. During the Russian occupation of Erzurum, no Armenian was permitted to approach the city and its environs. While the Commander of the First Army Corps, General Kaltiyin remained in power, troops including Armenian enlisted men, were not sent to the area. When the security measures were lifted, the Armenians began to attack Erzurum and its surroundings. Following the attacks came the plundering of the houses in the city and the villages and the murder of the owners of these houses...Plundering was widely committed by the soldiers. This plunder was mainly committed by Armenian soldiers who had remained in the rear during the war. One day, while passing through the streets on horseback, a group of soldiers including an Armenian soldier began to drag two old men of seventy years in a certain direction. The roads were covered with mud, and these people were dragging the two helpless Turks through the mud and dirt... It was understood later that all these were nothing but tricks and traps. The Turks who joined the gendarmarie soon changed their minds and withdrew. The reason was that most of the Turks who were on night patrol did not return, and no one knew what had happened to them. The Turks who had been sent outside the city for labour began to disappear also. Finally, the Court Martial which had been established for the trials of murderers and plunderers, began to liquidate itself for fear that they themselves would be punished. The incidents of murder and rape, which had decreased, began to occur more frequently. Sometime in January and February, a leading Turkish citizen Haci Bekir Efendi from Erzurum, was killed one night at his home. The Commander in Chief (Odiselidge) gave orders to find murderers within three days. The Commander in Chief has bitterly reminded the Armenian intellectuals that disobedience among the Armenian enlisted men had reached its highest point, that they had insulted and robbed the people and half of the Turks sent outside the city had not returned. ...We learnt the details this incident from the Commander-in-Chief, Odishelidge. They were as follows: The killings were organized by the doctors and the employers, and the act of killing was committed solely by the Armenian renegades... More than eight hundred unarmed and defenceless Turks have been killed in Erzincan. Large holes were dug and the defenceless Turks were slaughtered like animals next to the holes. Later, the murdered Turks were thrown into the holes. The Armenian who stood near the hole would say when the hole was filled with the corpses: 'Seventy dead bodies, well, this hole can take ten more.' Thus ten more Turks would be cut into pieces, thrown into the hole, and when the hole was full it would be covered over with soil. The Armenians responsible for the act of murdering would frequently fill a house with eighty Turks, and cut their heads off one by one. Following the Erzincan massacre, the Armenians began to withdraw towards Erzurum... The Armenian renegades among those who withdrew to Erzurum from Erzincan raided the Moslem villages on the road, and destroyed the entire population, together with the villages. During the transportation of the cannons, ammunition and the carriages that were outside the war area, certain people were hired among the Kurdish population to conduct the horse carriages. While the travellers were passing through Erzurum, the Armenians took advantage of the time when the Russian soldiers were in their dwellings and began to kill the Kurds they had hired. When the Russian soldiers heard the cries of the dying Kurds, they attempted to help them. However, the Armenians threatened the Russian soldiers by vowing that they would have the same fate if they intervened, and thus prevented them from acting. All these terrifying acts of slaughter were committed with hatred and loathing. Lieutenant Medivani from the Russian Army described an incident that he witnessed in Erzurum as follows: An Armenian had shot a Kurd. The Kurd fell down but did not die. The Armenian attempted to force the stick in his hand into the mouth of the dying Kurd. However, since the Kurd had firmly closed his jaws in his agony, the Armenian failed in his attempt. Having seen this, the Armenian ripped open the abdomen of the Kurd, disembowelled him, and finally killed him by stamping him with the iron heel of his boot. Odishelidge himself told us that all the Turks who could not escape from the village of Ilica were killed. Their heads had been cut off by axes. He also told us that he had seen thousands of murdered children. Lieutenant Colonel Gryaznov, who passed through the village of Ilica, three weeks after the massacre told us the following: There were thousands of dead bodies hacked to pieces, on the roads. Every Armenian who happened to pass through these roads, cursed and spat on the corpses. In the courtyard of a mosque which was about 25x30 meter square, dead bodies were piled to a height of 140 centimeters. Among these corpses were men and women of every age, children and old people. The women's bodies had obvious marks of rape. The genitals of many girls were filled with gun-powder. A few educated Armenian girls, who worked as telephone operators for the Armenian troops were called by Lieutenant Colonel Gryaznov to the courtyard of the mosque and he bitterly told them to be proud of what the Armenians had done. To the lieutenant colonel's disgusted amazement, the Armenian girls started to laugh and giggle, instead of being horrified. The lieutenant colonel had severely reprimanded those girls for their indecent behaviour. When he told the girls that the Armenians, including women, were generally more licentious than even the wildest animals, and that their indecent and shameful laughter was the most obvious evidence of their inhumanity and barbarity, before a scene that appalled even veteran soldiers, the Armenian girls finally remembered their sense of shame and claimed they had laughed because they were nervous. An Armenian contractor at the Alaca Communication zone command narrated the following incident which took place on February 20: The Armenians had nailed a Turkish women to the wall. They had cut out the women's heart and placed the heart on top of her head. The great massacre in Erzurum began on February 7... The enlisted men of the artillery division caught and stripped 270 people. Then they took these people into the bath to satisfy their lusts. 100 people among this group were able to save their lives as the result of my decisive attempts. The others, the Armenians claimed, were released when they learnt that I understood what was going on. Among those who organized this treacherous act was the envoy to the Armenian officers, Karagodaviev. Today, some Turks were murdered on the streets. On February 12, some Armenians have shot more than ten innocent Moslems. The Russian soldiers who attempted to save these people were threatened with death. Meanwhile I imprisoned an Armenian for murdering an innocent Turk. When an Armenian officer told an Armenian murderer that he would be hanged for his crime, the killer shouted furiously: 'How dare you hang an Armenian for killing a Turk?' In Erzurum, the Armenians burned down the Turkish market. On February 17, I heard that the entire population of Tepekoy village, situated within the artillery area, had been totally annihilated. On the same day when Antranik entered Erzurum, I reported the massacre to him, and asked him to track down the perpetrators of this horrible act. However no result was achieved. In the villages whose inhabitants had been massacred, there was a natural silence. On the night of 26/27 February, the Armenians deceived the Russians, perpetrated a massacre and escaped for fear of the Turkish soldiers. Later, it was understood that this massacre had been based upon a method organized and planned in a circular. The population had been herded in a certain place and then killed one by one. The number of murders committed on that night reached three thousand. It was the Armenians who bragged to about the details of the massacre. The Armenians fighting against the Turkish soldiers were so few in number and so cowardly that they could not even withstand the Turkish soldiers who consisted of only five hundred people and two cannons, for one night, and ran away. The leading Armenians of the community could have prevented this massacre. However, the Armenian intellectuals had shared the same ideas with the renegades in this massacre, just as in all the others. The lower classes within the Armenian community have always obeyed the orders of the leading Armenian figures and commanders. I do not like to give the impression that all Armenian intellectuals were accessories to these murders. No, for there were people who opposed the Armenians for such actions, since they understood that it would yield no result. However, such people were only a minority. Furthermore, such people were considered as traitors to the Armenian cause. Some have seemingly opposed the Armenian murders but have supported the massacres secretly. Some, on the other hand, preferred to remain silent. There were certain others, who, when accused by the Russians of infamy, would say the following: 'You are Russians. You can never understand the Armenian cause.' The Armenians had a conscience. They would commit massacres and then would flee in fear of the Turkish soldiers." Serdar Argic
When your helmetted nogin hits an immoveabe object, there are only four things to dissipate the energy: the immoveable object, the helmet shell, the helmet liner, the rider's head, the rider's ego (ok, five). Assuming that the helmet/ head assembly takes the same impact, if the shell cracks in one case, then in the other the liner must be dented, or the head gets jiggled. If it's the the liner that's dented, the helmet is just as toast as if the shell were cracked, it won't absorb energy form an impact in that area. If it's the head that's getting jiggled, maybe the new gear isn't of as high quality after all?
If alcohol were again banned today, it would be MUCH more difficult to manage a large-scale smuggling operation. The cops now rank just a narrow notch below the military in communications, intelligence gathering and firepower. In a similar vein, the amount of marijuana smuggled into this country has greatly decreased. This is because its value-per-pound is very low when compared to cocaine or heroin. It's simply not worth the risk, it's uneconomical. Now, most reefer is domestic. There is less pressure on the domestic producer (showy raids notwithstanding) and thus it is economical. Of note though ... domestic reefer is now very strong, so a small volume goes a long way. You cannot make alcohol stronger than 200 proof - not a good dollar/pound deal.
He also ignores a few other things. While organics would become significantly more expensive were all the oil to disappear (and thus some things would no longer be economically feasible), oil is hardly an irreplaceable resource any more than most other consumables. As supply decreases, prices rise and alternatives become more competetive. He also needs to consider that there has been an estimated 30 years of reserves pretty much as long as anyone has cared about petroleum; whatever the current usage rate is, we always seem to have about a 30 year reserve that we know about. [I'm not sure that last figure is still true -- we tend not to look as hard when prices are comparatively cheap -- but it was certainly true during hte 'oil crisis' days of the 70's.] -- "Insisting on perfect safety is for people who don't have the balls to live in the real world." -- Mary Shafer, NASA Ames Dryden
The magnets are huge! Good MRI sets with big (>1.5 Tesla) magnets cost millions of dollars. Then, the radiologist wants $400 for reading each scan. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Although I realize that principle is not one of your strongest points, I would still like to know why do do not ask any question of this sort about the Arab countries. If you want to continue this think tank charade of yours, your fixation on Israel must stop. You might have to start asking the same sort of questions of Arab countries as well. You realize it would not work, as the Arab countries' treatment of Jews over the last several decades is so bad that your fixation on Israel would begin to look like the biased attack that it is. Everyone in this group recognizes that your stupid 'Center for Policy Research' is nothing more than a fancy name for some bigot who hates Israel.
I believe we still remember Masada, where Jews killed themselves rather than being captured by the Romans. While I do not agree with the Davidians, I must admire their willingness to die for what they believed, which Jews have had to do often.
No. No. NOOO!!! The ground (green) wire is for safety. No current is supposed to flow in it under normal conditions. This means that there's normally no voltage drop in it either. It is supposed to be safe to touch the ground wire... even if you're grounded in some other way at the same time. The neutral (white) wire is, as Dave Vanderbyl correctly said, the return for the hot wire. Since current flows in it, there's a voltage drop. If you plug a heavy load into a properly-wired grounded outlet, you can commonly measure a volt or so of difference between neutral and ground. They are supposed to be connected together at the breaker panel... but nowhere, repeat NOwhere, else. (Well, almost. There are strange exceptions for things like sub-panels.) What you CAN do if you want three-prong outlets without additional wiring is to use a GFCI outlet (or breaker, but the outlet will be cheaper). In fact, depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s), a GFCI may be *required*. There is a FAQ on electrical wiring, posted regularly to rec.woodworking and news.answers. It goes into great detail on these issues (including GFCIs) and you should probably read it before asking any more questions. I'll mail a copy to you, append a copy here, and will ask the writers to cross-post it here in the future.
Well said Mr. Beyer :)
Please tell me what you think would have happened had the people come out with their hands up several weeks ago. More than someone who would not release children from the compound. I.e., more than David Koresh/Vernon Howell/"Jesus Christ". I saw lengthy excerpts from an Australian documentary made in 1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult. I am not pleased with the BATF handling of the affair. I think they bungled it badly from the start. But I don't think they are responsible for the fire, which started in two different places.
Indeed, an extreme example. It came "out of nowhere." The connection Kekule saw between it and his problem is fortunate but not extraordinary. I, for example, often receive/conjure solutions (hypotheses for solutions) to my everyday problems at moments when I appear to myself to be occupied with activities quite removed. Algorithms for that new software feature come when I trample the meadow on my occasional runs. Alternative (better>) ways to instruct and rear my sons arrive while I weed the garden. I'll swear I am not thinking about any of it when ideas come. These ideas are not the stuff of "great" discoveries, of course, but my connecting them to particular problems is fraught with deliberation and occasional fits of rationality. Yes. And he was lucky to have such a colorful, vivid image. I, alas, will never figure out why returning worms to the loose soil of my garden brought, "have him count objects instead of merely count" to mind regarding my 2 year-old's fledging arithmetic skills. The latter. Worms wiggling around in the dirt fascinate my son. Regards, Ted
I have a lot of info about this disease. I am posting a small amount of it that I extracted. If more is required, e-mail me @ ls8139@gemini.albany.edu. Please, it takes me some time to upload it, so be advised, only request it if you *really* want it. here is some info from InfoTrac - Health Reference Center Also, check you local of univeristy library. They most likely have the InfoTrac cd-rom this info was taken from...... ==================================== InfoTrac - Health Reference Center ~ Oct '89 - Oct '92 Heading: CANDIDA ALBICANS !Dictionary Definition 1. Mosby's Medical and Nursing Dictionary, 2nd edition COPYRIGHT 1986 The C.V. Mosby Company Candida albicans ------------------------------------------------------- A common, budding, yeastlike, microscopic fungal organism normally present in the mucous membranes of the mouth, intestinal tract, and vagina and on the skin of healthy people. Under certain circumstances, it may cause superficial infections of the mouth or vagina and, less commonly, serious invasive systemic infection and toxic reaction. See also candidiasis. ============================== InfoTrac - Health Reference Center ~ Oct '89 - Oct '92 THE MATERIAL CONTAINED IN Health Reference Center ~ Oct '89 - Oct '92 IS PROVIDED ONLY FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES AND SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS MEDICAL ADVICE OR INSTRUCTION. CONSULT YOUR HEALTH PROFESSIONAL FOR ADVICE RELATING TO A MEDICAL PROBLEM OR CONDITION. Heading: CANDIDA ALBICANS 1. Yogurt cure for Candida. (acidophilus) il v22 East West Natural Health July-August '92 p17(1) TEXT AVAILABLE TEXT COPYRIGHT East West Partners 1992 Another folk remedy receives the blessing of medical study. Researchers have found that eating a cup of yogurt a day drastically reduces a woman's chances of getting vaginal candida, a yeast infection. For the year-long study, researchers at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, New York, recruited 13 women who suffered from chronic yeast infections. For the first 6 months, the women each day ate 8 ounces of yogurt containing Lactobacillus acidophilus. For the second 6 months, the women did not eat yogurt. The researchers examined the women each month and found that incidents of colonization and infection were significantly lower during the period when the women ate yogurt. The fungus Candida albicans can live in the body without doing harm. It is an overproliferation of the fungus that leads to infection. The researchers concluded that the L. acidophilus bacteria found in some brands of yogurt retard overgrowth of the fungus. Streptococcus thermophilus and L. bulgaricus are the two bacteria most commonly used in commercial yogurt production. Neither one appears to exert a protective effect against Candida albicans, however. Women who want to try yogurt as a preventive measure should choose a brand that lists acidophilus in its contents. --- end --- =================================== InfoTrac - Health Reference Center ~ Oct '89 - Oct '92 THE MATERIAL CONTAINED IN Health Reference Center ~ Oct '89 - Oct '92 IS PROVIDED ONLY FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES AND SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS MEDICAL ADVICE OR INSTRUCTION. CONSULT YOUR HEALTH PROFESSIONAL FOR ADVICE RELATING TO A MEDICAL PROBLEM OR CONDITION. Heading: CANDIDA ALBICANS 1. Candida (Monilia). (Infections Caused by Fungi) (Infectious Diseases) by Harold C. Neu The Columbia Univ. Coll. of Physicians & Surgeons Complete Home Medical Guide Edition 2 '89 p472(1) TEXT AVAILABLE TEXT COPYRIGHT Crown Publishers Inc. 1989 Candida (Monilia) This disease is usually caused by Candida albicans, a fungus that we all carry at one time or another. In some circumstances, though, the organisms proliferate, producing symptomatic infection of the mouth, intestines, vagina, or skin. When the mouth or vagina are infected, the disease is commonly called thrush. Vaginitis caused by Candida often afflicts women on birth control pills or antibiotics. There is itching and a white, cheesy discharge. Among narcotic addicts, Candida infections can lead to heart valve inflammation. Diagnosis of Candida infections is confirmed by cultures and blood tests. Treatment can be with amphotericin B or orally with ketoconazole. There is no evidence that Candida in the intestine of normal individuals leads to disease. All people at one time or another have Candida in their intestines. Claims for any benefit from special diets or chronic antifungal agents is not based on any solid evidence. --- end --- ========================== I hope this is informative. Larry ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Live From New York, It's SATURDAY NIGHT...
Not hard, you can do the refreshing and access cycles by software, but this hogs most of the available CPU cycles on a low-end controller. I've seen some application note from Philips that used one of their 8051 derivatives as a printer buffer, with up to 1MB of dynamic ram that was accessed and refreshed with software bit-banging. Another alternative would be to use one of those nice DRAM controller chips that "create static RAM appearance" and all that, but they may be too expensive to make it worthwhile.
The home office number for ENVIRONET is (301) 286-5690 (note area code change). A friend of mine used to use it to get LDEF data, but he had to apply for a login name and password. I have a call in for more info, which I hope to get in the morning.
: They require two separate grounds. One ground goes to the ground pin : of the outlet, and the other ground wire is connected to the outlet's : mounting tabs (and thus grounds the box and faceplate screw and metal : faceplate, if any). I thought the ground WAS connected to the metal frame on the socket. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Christopher Wolf Electrical Engineer cmwolf@mtu.edu
In my case that's not for another 3+ years, so I'd appreciate any hints on what will keep the organization in business that long. (And preferably longer, of course, and worth being part of.)
: : >I bought it, I tried it: : : >It is, truly, the miracle spooge. : : >My chain is lubed, my wheel is clean, after 1000km. : : Good, glad to hear it, I'm still studying it. : : >I think life is now complete...The shaft drive weenies now : >have no comeback when I discuss shaft effect. : : Sure I do, even though I don't consider myself a weenie... ---------------- rip! pithy "I'm afraid to work on my bike" stuff deleted --- : There is also damn little if any shaft effect : with a Concours. So there! :{P PPPpppphhhhhttttttt!!! : Heh, heh...that's pretty funny. So what do you call it instead of shaft effect? Nathaniel ZX-10 <--- damn little if any shaft effect DoD 0812 AMA
When will you people realize that our right to keep and bear isn't primarily intended to be for protecting against criminals and beasties in the wild? Granted, it is a big part, but we also need military style weapons so we can fight off the government when they come to our door. When ten agents come to my door, it would be nice to be able to shoot all of them for 'not upholding the constitution to the best of their ability'. It will be a lot harder doing that with the puny weapons you listed above. Please read the Federalist papers for all clarification on RKBA. These documents have cleared up plenty of misnomers that friends of mine have had.
We get about 20 Taurus/Sables for fleet cars at our site every year, then the company sells them a year later to employees. The folks I know who drive/buy them have no complaints. The cars seem to drive real nice too.
try comp.dcom - I was reading a thread a while back about an 800 number that you could dial. worked here. It was a sales line for sprint I think telling you that you could have all your customers numbers using there ANI, then it told you your number. Should work with any modern switch. mycal
Hello, I am testing a port of X11R5 to Coherent, a unix clone OS for Intel architecture machines. I am seeing a strange problem with text in clients like xvt (a simple terminal emulator program). The problem manifests it self when the shell echoes typed characters back to the server for display, one at a time. The characters appear to be too closely spaced, with the result being that the 2nd character echoed destroys the rightmost edge of the first character, then the 3rd character destroys the rightmost edge of the second character, and so on. It looks like there is an invisible boundary around a character which obscures a portion of the previous character. There is no problem between the characters when the shell returns a complete line of text... only when the output is a series of individual characters. If anyone has any ideas what the problem might be, or where I should look to find it, it would be much appreciated. Regards and thanks, Jon Dhuse.
I don't think the 550 sold very well - most North Americans who ride a standard rather than a sport bike usually want something bigger. People walk into the dealership, look at the 550 and the 750 and say, "I might as well spring the extra bucks for the bigger engine."
Nobody ever exposed your crimes like that before? What was your personal role in the murder of Orhan Gunduz and Kemal Arikan, again? How many more Muslims will be slaughtered by 'SDPA.ORG' as publicly declared and filed with legal authorities? Please spell it out for us. "...that more people have to die..." SDPA <91@urartu.UUCP> "Yes, I stated this and stand by it." SDPA <255@urartu.UUCP> January 28, 1982 - Los Angeles Kemal Arikan is slaughtered by two Armenians while driving to work. March 22, 1982 - Cambridge, Massachusetts Prelude to grisly murder. A gift and import shop belonging to Orhan Gunduz is blown up. Gunduz receives an ultimatum: Either he gives up his honorary position or he will be "executed". He refuses. "Responsibility" is claimed by JCAG and SDPA. May 4, 1982 - Cambridge, Massachusetts Orhan Gunduz, the Turkish honorary consul in Boston, would not bow to the Armenian terrorist ultimatum that he give up his title of "honorary consul". Now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood. President Reagan orders an all-out manhunt-to no avail. An eye- witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. He survives... but falls silent. One of the most revolting "triumphs" in the senseless, mindless history of Armenian terrorism. Such a murder brings absolutely nothing - except an ego boost for the murderer within the Armenian terrorist underworld, which is already wallowing in self-satisfaction. Were you involved in the murder of Sarik Ariyak? December 17, 1980 - Sydney Two Nazi Armenians massacre Sarik Ariyak and his bodyguard, Engin Sever. JCAG and SDPA claim responsibility. It is public knowledge that the founder of the Marxist-Leninist terrorist organization, the ASALA (an integral part of ASALA/SDPA/ARF), Hagop Hagopian, began his notorious career as a member of the terrorist group which perpetrated the massacre of the Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics in 1972. And the 'Armenian Foundation' stole from the children of Turkiye to fund the criminal activities of the ASALA/SDPA/ARF terrorists in their cold-blooded murder of defenceless Turkish and Kurdish people. THE ARMENIAN FOUNDATION PROVIDED 30 BILLION TL TO ASALA 01/09/92, MILLIYET-- The Armenian Foundation based in Istanbul is found to have provided 30 billion Turkish Lira ($6 million) to the Armenian terrorist organization ASALA which have murdered several Turkish diplomats abroad... Experts on international terrorism assert that the Armenian terrorists use proceeds from drug trafficking (and from the Armenian Foundation) to fund their deadly enterprises. The deadliest of terrorist assassins, Carlos, proclaimed on Spanish television that his organization had entered into a working relationship with Armenian terrorists and they are using drug trafficking to raise money 'to continue' to slaughter innocent people. Now, what is your personal and organizational role in this scheme? Recent reports which have been confirmed by the U.S. Administration, indicate that Armenian terrorist organizations are collaborating with those who are responsible for the bombing of the United States Marine barracks in Beirut. You won't be able to get away with your crimes forever; the justice is long overdue. As for the Armenian genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people between 1914 and 1920: Source: Documents: Volume I (1919). "Document No: 42," Archive No: 1-2, Cabin No: 110, Drawer No: 1(4), File No: 373, Section No: 1484(1032), Contents No: 9, 9-1. (To the Office of Acting Supreme Commander - Acting Assistant Section Director Major Ali Sukru) "It is sufficient to mention just some of the terrible and shameful crimes committed only in Erzurum to get an idea about the Armenian atrocities in the villages... I would also like to mention with disgust and abominable sight, a stain on humanity, that I encountered at the west of Hasankale while my regiment was proceeding into this town. There was a young Turkish women, apparently once a very beautiful one, lying dead on one side of the road. A huge stick had been inserted into her vagina. We took the corpses and left it at a spot that was invisible from the road..." Serdar Argic
ieee.general and ieee.announce
Archive-name: typing-injury-faq/changes Version: $Revision: 1.3 $ $Date: 1993/04/13 04:12:33 $ This file details changes to the soda.berkeley.edu archive and summarizes what's new in the various FAQ (frequently asked questions) documents. This will be posted monthly, along with the full FAQ to the various net groups. The various mailing lists will either receive the full FAQ every month, or every third month, but will always get this file, once per month. Phew! ============================================================================ Changes to the Typing Injuries FAQ and soda.berkeley.edu archive, this month ============================================================================ a few new files on the soda.berkeley.edu archive the TidBITS "Caring for your wrists" document RSI Network #11 Advice about "adverse mechanical tension" More details about the new Apple keyboard more info about carpal tunnel syndrome (carpal.explained) more general info about RSI (rsi.details, rsi.physical) marketing info on the Vertical MacWeek article the Bat new details on hooking a normal PC keyboard to an RS/6000 updated pricing info on the DataHand and Comfort Half-QWERTY now available for anonymous ftp on explorer.dgp.toronto.edu new GIF picutures! The Apple Adjustable Keyboard The Key Tronic FlexPro another picture of the Kinesis The Vertical The Tony! ============================================================================ If you'd like to receive a copy of the FAQ and you didn't find it in the same place you found this document, you can either send e-mail to dwallach@cs.berkeley.edu, or you can anonymous ftp to soda.berkeley.edu (128.32.149.19) and look in the pub/typing-injury directory. Enjoy!
Are you switching high level signals or low level signals like pre-amp out level signals? Also, are the clicks you mentioning the big clack that happens when it switches or are you refering to contact bounce? How are you driving the relays? TTL gate output? Switching transistor? How are the relays connected to what you are driving?
subscribe grape@nswses.navy.mil
Done. But did it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920, the Armenian Government ordered, incited, assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people because of race, religion and national origin? By the way, you still haven't corrected yourself. During World War II Armenians were carried away with the German might and cringing and fawning over the Nazis. In that zeal, the Armenian publication in Germany, Hairenik, carried statements as follows:[1] "Sometimes it is difficult to eradicate these poisonous elements (the Jews) when they have struck deep root like a chronic disease, and when it becomes necessary for a people (the Nazis) to eradicate them in an uncommon method, these attempts are regarded as revolutionary. During the surgical operation, the flow of blood is a natural thing." Now for a brief view of the Armenian genocide of the Muslims and Jews - extracts from a letter dated December 11, 1983, published in the San Francisco Chronicle, as an answer to a letter that had been published in the same journal under the signature of one B. Amarian. "...We have first hand information and evidence of Armenian atrocities against our people (Jews)...Members of our family witnessed the murder of 148 members of our family near Erzurum, Turkey, by Armenian neighbors, bent on destroying anything and anybody remotely Jewish and/or Muslim. Armenians should look to their own history and see the havoc they and their ancestors perpetrated upon their neighbors... Armenians were in league with Hitler in the last war, on his premise to grant them self government if, in return, the Armenians would help exterminate Jews...Armenians were also hearty proponents of the anti-Semitic acts in league with the Russian Communists. Mr. Amarian! I don't need your bias." Signed Elihu Ben Levi, Vacaville, California. [1] James G. Mandalian, 'Dro, Drastamat Kanayan,' in the 'Armenian Review,' a Quarterly by the Hairenik Association, Inc., Summer: June 1957, Vol. X, No. 2-38. Serdar Argic
Okay, this is a long shot. My friend Robin has recurring bouts of mononucleosis-type symptoms, very regularly. This has been going on for a number of years. She's seen a number of doctors; six was the last count, I think. Most of them have said either "You have mono" or "You're full of it; there's nothing wrong with you." One has admitted to having no idea what was wrong with her, and one has claimed that it is Epstein-Barr syndrome. Now, what she told me about EBS is that very few doctors even believe that it exists. (Obviously, this has been her experience.) So, what's the story? Is it real? Does the medical profession believe it to be real? Has anyone had success is treating EBS? Or is it just something to live with? Thanks for your assistance.
Hi netlanders, Does anybody know if there is something like Macintosh Hypercard for any UNIX platform? Thanks in advance
"A handful of anti-gun zealots are telling the public that their right to self-defense is of less importance than the interests of Handgun Control, Inc. This action comes as local, state and federal law enforcement officials continue their assault on the Branch Davidian compound--an assault which has already resulted in the death of one two year old child at the hands of federal agents. This has highlighted the need for citizens to be able to defend themselves and their children against the excesses of their own government." "Any suggestion by opponents that this bill will increase crime is a distortion of the facts, at best. The aggressive outreach by officials in central Florida to train and arm women has led to a dramatic drop in the level of assault and rape in that area. Of course, this program is a rare gem, as many law enforcement officials apparently believe that an unarmed citizenry will be easier to control, and thus favor tighter restrictions." "The vote today is a tribute to the good sense of the public at large who are putting their lives on the line every day as they go about their lawful affairs. The entire country knows how vulnerable the average citizen is, both to attacks from criminals and from armed assault by our own police. Texas lawmakers who voted for this concealed handgun bill have shown total understanding for those innocent, law-abiding citizens on the front lines, and the families of those who have fallen." "I urge the House of Representatives to pay attention to the needs of their constituents, and not be stampeded by ill-conceived arguments from ideological fanatics." Ain't propaganda fun?
I remember seeing something in the X distribution mentioning support for a Tektronix terminal in an X server. Is this accurate? -- mike@hopper.acs.virginia.edu
4/15/93 1242 Turkey sends light weapons as aid to Azerbaijan By SEVA ULMAN ANKARA, Turkey (UPI) -- Turkey is arming Azerbaijan with light weapons to help it fight Armenian forces in the struggle for the Nagorno- Karabakh enclave, the newspaper Hurriyet said Thursday. Deputy Prime Minister Erdal Inonu told reporters in Ankara that Turkey was responding positively to a request from Azerbaijan for assistance. "We are giving a positive response to all requests" from Azerbaijan, "within the limits of our capabilities," he said. Foreign Ministry spokesman Vural Valkan declined to elaborate on the nature of the aid being sent to Azerbaijan, but said they were within the framework of the Council for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Hurriyet, published in Istanbul, said Turkey was sending light weapons to Azerbaijan, including rockets, rocket launchers and ammunition. Ankara began sending the hardware after a visit to Turkey last week by a high-ranking Azerbaijani official. Turkey has however ruled out, for the second time in one week, that it would intervene militarily in Azerbaijan. Wednesday, Inonu told reporters Ankara would not allow Azerbaijan to suffer defeat at the hands of the Armenians. "We feel ourselves bound to help Azerbaijan, but I am not in a position right now to tell you what form (that) help may take in the future," he said. He said Turkish aid to Azerbaijan was continuing, "and the whole world knows about it." Prime Minister Suleyman Demirel reiterated that Turkey would not get militarily involved in the conflict. Foreign policy decisions could not be based on street-level excitement, he said. There was no immediate reaction in Ankara to regional reports, based on Armenian sources in Yerevan, saying Turkish pilots and other officers were captured when they were shot down flying Azerbaijani warplanes and helicopters. The newspaper Cumhuriyet said Turkish troops were digging in along the border with Armenia, but military sources denied reports based on claims by local people that gunfire was heard along the border. No military action has occurred, the sources said. The latest upsurge in fighting between the Armenians and Azerbaijanis flared early this month when Armenian forces seized the town of Kelbajar and later positioned themselves outside Fizuli, near the Iranian border.
I have owned my Sprint from the beginning and that sensor light comes on every 30K to let you know it's time for a check up. When that light goes on, I just take it to the delaer tell them "It's that time" and they work on it for 4 hou and you pay $5 for parts and $100 for labor. (Ahh...what they get for labor) I currently have about 95K on my Sprint and of all the times I took it in for service, I never say on the payment sheet anything about the replacement of the Oxygen sensor. What the heck is an Oxygen sensor? As far an I know of, I have never had that thing replaced in my car and the car is purring like a kitten. Now, I don't have a/c (Mother Nature does that for me :-) ) and that might have something to do with it, but I still never heard of an Oxygen sensor. The only MAJOR service job I have had on my car (besides getting the tires replaced if you want to call that a service job) was getting the Rotor, Distributor and Gasket replaced. And that was all done within the past 2 months. What I do at 30K is have a good tune-up, let them replace what ever they need to, pay the bill (about $125) and go home and don't worry about the car for another 30K. Oh, I just remembered something. If that little sensor light bothers you, in the fuse box right below the turn-signal lever up against the dash, there is a swith on the right side. Flip that switch and the light will go off. I do that so that little light won't annoy me. If you can't find it, look it up in the car manuel. I hope that I have helped a little and good luck with the _Oxygen sensor_? - Thomas -
It's made by Rohm. (as is all BAxxx parts). Call 714-855-2131 and ask if you can get a sample (it's only like a $2 part).
When were you in Britain?, my information is different. From Miranda Castro, _The Complete Homeopathy Handbook_, ISBN 0-312-06320-2, oringinally published in Britain in 1990.
I have heard of two packages for the PC that support X-Win. The first is Linux which is a free Unix Package. The Second is X-Appeal, which sounds pretty good. It can be found at garbo.uwusa.fi in the ~ftp/pc/demo/ dir. The files are xap13exe.zip xap10fon.zip drivers.zip This should get you started. Josh.
-- and -- Good grief; has no one ever heard of Biostatistics?? The University of Washington (plus 3 or 4 others [Harvard, UNC]) has a department and advanced degree program in Biostatistics. My wife has an MS Biostat, and there are plenty of MDs, PhDs, and postdocs doing Biostatistical work. People do this for a living. Really bright people study for decades to do this sort of study well. Anecedotal evidence is worthless. Even doctors who have been using a drug or treatment for years, and who swear it is effective, are often suprised at the results of clinical trials. Whether or not MSG causes describable, reportable, documentable symptoms should be pretty simple to discover. The last study on which my wife worked employed 200 nurses, 100 doctors, and a dozen Ph.Ds at one University and at 70 hospitals in five nations. I would think the MSG question could be settled by one lowly Biostat MS student in a thesis.
The most practical use I've seen for them is as key ring ornaments :-)
Of course. The term must be rigidly defined in any bill. I doubt she uses this term for that. You are using a quote allegedly from her, can you back it up? I read the article as presenting first an argument about weapons of mass destruction (as commonly understood) and then switching to other topics. The first point evidently was to show that not all weapons should be allowed, and then the later analysis was, given this understanding, to consider another class.
I am thinking about getting an Infiniti G20. In consumer reports it is ranked high in many catagories including highest in reliability index for compact cars. Mitsubushi Galant was second followed by Honda Accord). A couple of things though: 1) In looking around I have yet to see anyone driving this car. I see lots of Honda's and Toyota's. 2) There is a special deal where I can get an Infinity G20, fully loaded, at dealer cost (I have check this out and the numbers match up). They are doing this because they are releasing and update mid-1993 version (includes dual air-bags) and want to get rid of their old 1993's. I guess my question is: Is this a good deal? Also, Can anyone give me any feedback on Infiniti? Thanks, Carl Hoffman P.S.
Several years ago GM was having trouble with the rings sticking on the 5.7 diesel. They traced a cause to the use of 10W-40 oil. They would not honor warranty work if 10W-40 was used (if my memory serves me). 5-30, 10-30 or 20 50 was OK'd though.
Not being an Xt programmer by any stretch of the imagination, this is driving me crazy and it's probably really simple to do. I need to make a composite widget that does nothing at all but is merely a placeholder in a widget instance heirarchy -- allowing me an additional resource name level. To illustrate I have an application with the following widget heirarchy: Shell Widget | Application Widghet I want the following: Shell Widget | Intermediate Widget | Application Widget where the intermediate widget has a name but gets all its other properties (and propagates down new values) from the shell widget. I assume there's a simple way to do this but I can't find an example and the documentation I have is rather vague about implementing composite widgets. Please respond via email. Any help will be very much appreciated.
If you think you have kidney stones or your doctor tells you that you do, DEFINITELY follow up on it. My sister was diagnosed with kidney stones 1 1/2 years ago and given medication to take to dissolve them. After that failed and she continued to be in great pain, they decided she had endometriosis. When they did exploratory surgery, they discovered she had a tumor, which turned out to be rhabdomyosarcoma -- a very rare and agressive cancer. I realize this is not what happens in the majority of cases, but you never know what can happen and shouldn't take chances!
[again, poseted for a friend] Okay, I got such great response from my last question (thanks, everyone), lets try again: How can I tell if a colorcell is read-only? I want to use any read-only cells that are already in my colormap once I start running out of allocatable cells, using some arbitrary nearest color matching scheme to get those cells that come closest to a requested color. Once I determine if a cell is read-only, I assume I can then just request an XAllocColor() with the exact same color specifications and it will then be flagged as 'used' by my application so that it doesn't later get freed by someone else and allocated again as read-write to another application. So far, the only way I've figured out to do this is to write my own error handler and just go ahead and request the cells colors, once my colormap is all full up. It should error out if the cell is non-shareable. But life would be much easier if I could just detect the read-only/shareable stuff directly... Any ideas?
-*----- I hope Gordon Banks did not mean to imply that notions such as hard-to-see candida infections causing various problems should not be investigated. Many researchers have made breakthroughs by figuring out how to investigate things that were previously thought "virtually impossible to test for." Indeed, I would be surprised if "candida overbloom" were such a phenomena. I would think that candida would produce signature byproducts whose measure would then set a lower bound on the extent of recent infection. I realize this might get quite tricky and difficult, probably expensive, and likely inconvenient or uncomfortable to the subjects, but that is not the same as "virtually impossible."
04/19/1993 0000 Lezghis Astir By NEJLA SAMMAKIA Associated Press Writer GUSSAR, Azerbaijan (AP) -- The 600,000 Lezghis of Azerbaijan and Russia have begun clamoring for their own state, threatening turmoil in a tranquil corner of the Caucasus. The region has escaped the ethnic warfare of neighboring Nagorno-Karabakh, Abkhazia and Ossetia, but Lezhgis could become the next minority in the former Soviet Union to fight for independence. Lezghis, who are Muslim descendents of nomadic shepherds, are angry about the conscription of their young men to fight in Azerbaijan's 5-year-old undeclared war with Armenia. They also want to unite the Lezghi regions of Azerbaijan and Russia, which were effectively one until the breakup of the Soviet Union created national borders that had been only lines on a map. A rally of more than 3,000 Lezghis in March to protest conscription and demand a separate "Lezghistan" alarmed the Azerbaijani government. Officials in Baku, the capital, deny rumors that police shot six demonstrators to death. But the government announced strict security measures and began cooperating with Russian authorities to control the movement of Lezhgis living across the border in the Dagestan region of Russia. Visitors to Gussar, the center of Lezhgi life, found the town quiet soon after the protest. Children played outdoors in the crisp mountain air. At the Sunday bazaar, men in heavy coats and dark fur hats gathered to discuss grievances ranging from high customs duties at the Russian border to a war they say is not theirs. "I have been drafted, but I won't go," said Shamil Kadimov, gold teeth glinting in the sun. "Why must I fight a war for the Azerbaijanis? I have nothing to do with Armenia." More than 3,000 people have died in the war, which centers on the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh, about 150 miles to the southeast. Malik Kerimov, an official in the mayor's office, said only 11 of 300 locals drafted in 1992 had served. "The police don't force people to go," he said. "They are afraid of an uprising that could be backed by Lezghis in Dagestan." All the men agreed that police had not fired at the demonstrators, but disagreed on how the protest came about. Some said it occurred spontaneously when rumors spread that Azerbaijan was about to draft 1,500 men from the Gussar region, where 75,000 Lezghis live. Others said the rally was ordered by Gen. Muhieddin Kahramanov, leader of the Lezhgi underground separatist movement, Sadval, based in Dagestan. "We organized the demonstration when families came to us distraught about draft orders," said Kerim Babayev, a mathematics teacher who belongs to Sadval. "We hope to reunite peacefully, by approaching everyone -- the Azerbaijanis, the Russians." In the early 18th century, the Lezhgis formed two khanates, or sovereignties, in what are now Azerbaijan and Dagestan. They roamed freely with their sheep over the green hills and mountains between the two khanates. By 1812, the Lezghi areas were joined to czarist Russia. After 1917, they came under Soviet rule. With the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the 600,000 Lezghis were faced for the first time with strict borders. About half remained in Dagestan and half in newly independent Azerbaijan. "We have to pay customs on all this, on cars, on wine," complained Mais Talibov, a small trader. His goods, laid out on the ground at the bazaar, included brandy, stomach medication and plastic shoes from Dagestan. "We want our own country," he said. "We want to be able to move about easily. But Baku won't listen to us." Physically, it is hard for outsiders to distinguish Lezhgis from other Azerbaijanis. In many villages, they live side by side, working at the same jobs and intermarrying to some degree. But the Lezhgis have a distinctive language, a mixture of Arabic, Turkish and Persian with strong guttural vowels. Azerbaijan officially supports the cultural preservation of its 10 largest ethnic minorities. The Lezghis have weekly newspapers and some elementary school classes in their language. Autonomy is a different question. If the Lezghis succeeded in separating from Azerbaijan, they would set a precedent for other minorities, such as the Talish in the south, the Tats in the nearby mountains and the Avars of eastern Azerbaijan.
"Widely reported", eh? Remember, this has had a news blackout since day 2. The FBI is the single, sole, source of these rumors. It may be the truth, but it may not be. We may never know. We MUST question it, though. Why no media coverare? What were they hiding? It would seem so. They would still be alive, today. Another day is another chance. action? I think it contributed to the outcome. Folks that are sleep deprived tend not to think clearly I feel strongly they were NOT proper. As expected. If it had come out well, he would not have hesitated to take full credit. Jim -- jmd@handheld.com
From: "Phil G. Fraering" <pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu> > Finally: this isn't the Bronze Age, [..] > please try to remember that there are more human activities than > those practiced by the Warrior Caste, the Farming Caste, and the > Priesthood. Right, the Profiting Caste is blessed by God, and may freely blare its presence in the evening twilight .. The Priesthood has never quite forgiven the merchants (aka Profiting Caste [sic]) for their rise to power, has it? ;-)
Paraphrase of initial post: Can I fight a speeding ticket in court? My reply: Fight your ticket : California edition by David Brown 1st ed. Berkeley, CA : Nolo Press, 1982 The second edition is out (but not in UCB's library). Good luck; let us know how it goes.
hey... I'm pretty new to the wonderful world of motorcycles... I just bought a used 81 Kaw KZ650 CSR from a friend.... I was just wondering what kind of saddle bags I could get for it (since I know nothing about them) are there bags for the gas tank? how much would some cost, and how much do they hold? thanks for your advice!!! I may be new to riding, but I love it already!!!! :)
[sorry for the 0 auto content, but ... ]
Article 10886 of alt.radio.scanner: Path: usenet.ins.cwru.edu!cleveland.Freenet.Edu!aj008 From: aj008@cleveland.Freenet.Edu (Aaron M. Barnes) Subject: Realistic PRO-2024 for sale-was $200,sell for $150 obo Date: 20 Apr 1993 16:01:28 GMT Organization: Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio (USA) Lines: 26 Message-ID: <1r16oo$3du@usenet.INS.CWRU.Edu> NNTP-Posting-Host: slc10.ins.cwru.edu Hello. I have a Realistic PRO-2024 scanner for sale.Here is a small desc ription: 60 programible chanels fully detailed backlighted digital display headphone jack antenna jack removable telescoping antenna auto search coverage: 30-50mHz 118-174mHz 380-512mHz It originally cost $200, but I will sell for $150. Thank You. -- / / Buchanan in `96! / / Fear the goverment that fears your guns. \ \/ / Without the 2nd amendment, we cannot guarantee ou \/ / r freedoms. aj008@cleveland.freenet.edu
Er, without a bike (Ed, maybe you ought to respond to this...), how you gonna get there? If yer going by cage, what's this got to do with r.m? Maybe somebody oughta gang-tool-FAQ this guy, hmmm?
Hello, does somebody know the functions XtShellStrings and XtStrings? I haven't found them in any librarys not Xm, Xt, nor X11, and I need them to install a tool. Any hints greatly appreciated! Please reply via e-mail. Thanks in advance! _______________________________________________________________________________
Brent, the Feds turned off the BD's electricity a couple of weeks ago... Perhaps you haven't been paying attention to the radio, TV, or newspapers, though. --
Why? Either the numerator or the denominator could fluctuate. The dollar value of a gun would (of course) go up if supply were restricted. The weight of a gun might go down significantly as technology improved. I don't think you have a basis to assert this.
[ANAS] There are many neutral human rights organizations which always report [ANAS] on the situation in the O.T. But, as most people used to see on TV, the [ANAS] Israelis do not allow them to go deep there in the O.T. The Israelis [ANAS] used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters. [ANAS] So, this is another kind of terrorism committed by the Jews in Palestine. [ANAS] They do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in [ANAS] Palestine. Bring me one case where Israeli Soldiers deliberately killed a "neutral reporter". This is another one of your wet dreams. Unlike many countries, Israel does allow reporters in and out of the O.T. That is what the problem is. If Israel were a country like China, then nothing would transpire from what is happening in the O.T. But there seems to be a proliferation of journalists in Israel always trying to show how evil the Israeli monster is. Arab countries don't allow journalists anywhere, we have yet to hear about the massacres of Kurds, the destruction and annihilation of Hama, the killings of moslem fundamentalists in mosques in Egypt and Algeria etc... Why is it we only get state reports? How accurate are they? Anas, go give a lesson of freedom of speech to your Arab bretheren before telling us what to do. Tsiel
While driving through the middle of nowhere, I picked up KNBR, AM 1070, a clear-channel station based in Los Angeles. They had an ad claiming that they were able to get traffic flow information from all of the thousands of traffic sensors that CalTrans has placed under the pavement. Does CalTrans sell this info? Does KNBR have an exclusive? What's the deal?
The SC1/SC2 has a shorter wheel base than the SL/SL1/SL2/SW1/SW2, just a thought. Ithink your right though......
It seems to me that you are the one who is supposed to do some reading. I think that our major difference in opinion is on the legitimacy of Sevres. First, thattreaty was signed by the Ottoman Empire therefore legally it does not bind the Republic of Turkey. The new independence movement (which by the way, is not the same as the Young Turks) naturally rejected it out of hand. to say that we should accept because the Germans did theirs is absurd. We saw what the cosequences of such harsh treaties were in Hitler. Second, the Sevres treaty was even worse than Versailles. It divided the Ottoman Empire in to several influence zones, had the capital occupied, the economy under Allied control, the army di minished to nothing but a police force, in short a country in name only. I'd wonder if you would like to live under such conditions. And for the record, I donot feel sorry for the soldiers killed in IZMIR harbour. Before evacuating the city, the Greek forces burned it down, so it serves them right. As for being fooled by Allied promises, that too is your fault. You did not come to Anatolia just to enforce Sevres but to take part in the plunder as well. K. Burak Ucer
If you really want to trigger the scanners then move the keywords above the -- signature start bit... You'll only trip them once in a sig (plus every so often it will flag one for human intervention just to be sure) I might not be being serious.
So why did the Australian Customs Service make a public statement to a parliamentary committee last year that weapons smuggling was a problem which it was not able to control? Possibly criminals don't have your grasp of economics?
Various posts about shafties can't do wheelies: Uh, folks, the shaft doesn't have diddleysquatpoop to do with it. I can get the front wheel off the ground on my /5, ferchrissake!
Aaahh... a problem very near and dear to my heart. In our case, other monitors cause this problem - the deflection coil of other monitors to be specific. Have also seen a monitor backed up to a fuse panel exhibit this problem. This sounds like your problem since flourescent lites, motors, etc several 10s of feet away seem to me to be too far to cause it, but the juice running to them must pass nearby your monitor. Fusebox on other side of wall maybe? We started spec'ing Panasonic CT-1331Y video monitors (3 switchable input lines(vid & aud) S-VHS on one) <$400. This stopped the wavy interference effect on the computer monitor next to it. Now on to your problem. You need what is known as mu shielding (very common, in fact almost mandatory on electrostatic deflection type O'scopes). I talked to a EE prof. He said get a coffee can, cut both ends off, mount around deflection coil of interfering monitor. BE CAREFUL TO AVOID ALL HIGH VOLTAGE CIRCUITRY. ESPECIALLY THE THICKER HIGH VOLTAGE ANODE LEAD USUALLY COLORED RED. IF YOU KILL YOURSELF, DON'T BLAME/SUE ME!!! USE PLASTIC OR OTHER NON-CONDUCTING STAND-OFFS AND SUCH TO MOUNT CAN. Now, I would assume that what is good for keeping mag fields in is also good at keeping them out, so hopefully this'll work by mounting shield on monitor being interfered with as well. If not, start shielding those other sources.
I recently ftp'd Al's Circuit Simulator (ACS) and I'm looking for the tutorial which is mentioned in the Users Manual (but not found there). I don't have any experience constructing a netlist (such as for SPICE) and I need a little help. The examples which come with ACS aren't explanatory about the translation between schematic and netlist. Does anyone have the fabled "Tutorial" or any other reference which could help me in constructing a netlist from a schematic diagram? (I also emailed Al himself but received no response yet. He's probably busy with his next release.) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tim Pillsbury Internet: tsp@ccd.harris.com uunet: uunet!ccd.harris.com!timothy.pillsbury
/ hpcc01:rec.motorcycles / groverc@gold.gvg.tek.com (Grover Cleveland) / 9:07 am Apr 14, 1993 / Shop for your bike in Sacramento - the Bay area prices are always much higher than elsewhere in the state. GC ---------- Affirmative! Check Sacramento Bee, Fresno Bee, Modesto, Stockton, Bakersfield and other newspapers for prices of motos in the classifieds...a large main public library ought to have a number of out-of-town papers. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Graeme Harrison, Hewlett-Packard Co., Communications Components Division, 350 W Trimble Rd, San Jose, CA 95131 (gharriso@hpcc01.corp.hp.com) DoD#649
oh, i see. electricity is a natural right & our wonderful government would -never- cut off the power to the people they were besieging. are you really this dumb, or just acting like it for the sake of argument? jason
Excerpts from netnews.comp.windows.x: 23-Apr-93 X Toolkits Paul Prescod@undergrad.m (1132) The Andrew User Interface System is supported, maintained, enhanced, and distributed by the Andrew Consortium, Carnegie Mellon. The distribution terms are those of the X consortium, not the GNU Public License. Thus anyone can commercially exploit the Andrew code without restriction. (To encourage membership, however, we defer universal release of the latest versions until Consortium members have had an opportunity to explore the new capabilities.) To se what AUIS looks like, you can try a remote demo. You need an X server (R5 is best) on a machine linked to the internet. Give the command finger help@atk.itc.cmu.edu for instructions. NOTE: The demo version does not use the Motif-look-and-feel scrollbar, but one is available. You can use it on the demo by changing an option in the ~/preferences file and starting a new editor. The Andrew Toolkit component of AUIS is ideal if you want to build applications using compound documents. Andrew's major feature is its architecture for recursive embedding of objects: equation in table in figure in text, for example. This architecture extends to areas not usually found in toolkits, including file stream formats, cut/paste, and printing. Andrew also provides some of the most commonly requested applications: word processor, spreadsheet, drawing editor, and font editor (the latter two are in version 5.2 which will be generally released on the XR6 tape in December.)
Other idea for old space crafts is as navigation beacons and such.. Why not?? If you can put them on "safe" "pause" mode.. why not have them be activated by a signal from a space craft (manned?) to act as a naviagtion beacon, to take a directional plot on??
Where can I buy or build a device that will convert 20 ma current loop signals to RS232 voltages? I know some old terminals came with that option, but none of the ones I own have that. Anyway, I want to connect a computer to this old industrial computer to use the computer with communications software as a console instead of an old DecWriter. Please e-mail me if you have any info that would point me in the right direction.
Will there be any support for round or circular widgets in Motif's next release?. I'd love to have a circular knob widget which could be used instead of a slider.
Experiment: From a Sun openwindows 4.1.3 xterm window log into a Solaris 2.x machine using rlogin; now do an "ls" and get the first character of each line display in the last column of the display with the rest of the line wrapped to the next line of the display. Log out and the condition persists. Check stty all, try reset with no effect. Use telnet instead of rlogin and it doesn't occur. Try it from a unix console and it doesn't occur. (1) What's causing this? (2) Can it be avoided? (3) How can the terminal characteristics be reset? Please send replies to shenk@math.gatech.edu
Harumph. Getting published in these newsletters is hardly something to aspire to. :-) I can't really argue with your logic, though I think you may be extrapolating a bit recklessly from what appears to be a sample size of one. Even if what you say about this local Pittsburgh guy is true, it is not logical or fair to conclude that this is true of all doctors who treat Lyme disease. By your logic, I could conclude that all of the physicians who consult for insurance companies and make money by denying benefits to Lyme patients are doing it for the money, rather than because they believe they are encouraging good medicine. I have no idea how sincere these guys are, but their motives are as suspect as the physicians you excoriate for what you believe to be indiscriminate treatment. I would really feel more comfortable discussing the medical issues in Lyme, rather than speculating as to the motives of the various parties involved.
Are you volunteering? :) Will NASA have "available landing sites" in the Russian Republic, now that they are Our Friends and Comrades?
(Neil Williams) writes... # #As long as we're on the subject... Several years ago myself and two others #were riding in the front of a Toyota pickup heading south on Interstate 5 #north of Seattle, WA. Someone threw a rock of an overpass and hit our #windshield. Not by accident I'm sure, it was impossible to get up to the #overpass quickly to see who did it. We figured it was kids, reported it and #left. #A couple of years ago it happend again and killed a guy at my company. He was #in his mid-fourties and left behind a wife and children. Turned out there was #a reformatory for juviniles a few blocks away. They caught the 14 year old #that did it. They put a cover over the overpass, what else could they do? #I don't think I'll over forget this story. #Neil Williams, Boeing Computer Services, Bellevue WA. #.. # Neil, what did they do to the 14-year-old who they caught? What did the man's insurance company do? This could be significant and in any case very interesting. Followups to alt.parents-teens. Fred W. Bach , Operations Group | Internet: music@erich.triumf.ca TRIUMF (TRI-University Meson Facility) | Voice: 604-222-1047 loc 327/278 4004 WESBROOK MALL, UBC CAMPUS | FAX: 604-222-1074 University of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C., CANADA V6T 2A3
Obviously, you really don't know. They *have* spoken out (cf Sec'y of State Christopher's recent trip to the ME), they have provided millions in aid, and they have participated in the airlifts to Sarajevo. They *would* supply military aid, if the UN would lift the embargo on arms sales. See above. (Kuwait has directly participated in the airlift of food to Sarajevo.) Hmm...some might say Kuwaitis are non-white. Ooops, I forgot, Kuwaitis are "oil rich", "loaded with petro-dollars", etc so they don't count.
Hello all, On my bike I have hazard lights (both front and back turn signals flash). Since I live in NJ and commute to NYC there are a number of tolls one must pay on route. Just before arriving at a toll booth I switch the hazards on. I do thisto warn other motorists that I will be taking longer than the 2 1/2 seconds to make the transaction. Taking gloves off, getting money out of coin changer/pocket, making transaction, putting gloves back on takes a little more time than the average cager takes to make the same transaction of paying the toll. I also notice that when I do this cagers tend to get the message and usually go to another booth. My question, is this a good/bad thing to do? Any others tend to do the same? Just curious
Or just stick 'em on sci.space.news every 28-30 days?
I think this is a little inaccurate, based on Feynman's account of the software-development process *before* the standdown. Fred is basically correct: no sophisticated tools, just a lot of effort and painstaking care. But they got this one right *before* Challenger; Feynman cited the software people as exemplary compared to the engine people. (He also noted that the software people were starting to feel management pressure to cut corners, but hadn't had to give in to it much yet.) Among other things, the software people worked very hard to get things right for the major pre-flight simulations, and considered a failure during those simulations to be nearly as bad as an in-flight failure. As a result, the number of major-simulation failures could be counted on one hand, and the number of in-flight failures was zero. As Fred mentioned elsewhere, this applies only to the flight software. Software that runs experiments is typically mostly put together by the experimenters, and gets nowhere near the same level of Tender Loving Care. (None of the experimenters could afford it.)
Actually, I'm still trying to understand the self-justifying rationale behind the recent murder of Ian Feinberg (?) in Gaza.
I'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need Direct Input boxes for the keyboards. These are the little boxes that take a line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low-Z for the run to the mixer. Sadly they cost like $50 (or more) each and I'm going to need like 5 or 10 of them! I looked inside one (belonging to another band) and it looks like just a transformer. Does anyone have any plans for building them? Perhaps in Anderton's "Electronic Projects for Musicians" book (which I am having a hell of a time tracking down...)? Thanks a lot! .s. PS: Post or email. I read this group...
Title 18, 241 and/or 242 seem to apply. 241 is conspiracy (two or more persons) against rights of citizens. 242 is deprivation of rights under color of law. Both call for up to life in prison if death occurs. Reno, Bentsen, and Clinton are probably all principals to the crime (as they are responsible for authorized actions on the part of their subordinates). You forgot one detail, they should be turned over to the Texas authorities for trial, as the crime was committed there (Article 4, section 2). -- Charles Scripter * cescript@phy.mtu.edu Dept of Physics, Michigan Tech, Houghton, MI 49931
I just mailed this: I noticed a 2-3in long cut in the tread of the rear tire on my VFR. The cut is only about as deep as the tread block, and looks like it only scratched the rubber at the base, but the weird thing is, it's way over on the edge where I haven't scuffed the tire in yet. My questions are: 1. How dangerous is this, should I replace the tire right away? and 2. If I should, since the cut is on the unscuffed portion and the tire only has about 330 mi on it, what do you think my chances of getting it replaced under warranty are? To the nedod mailing list, and Jack Tavares suggested I check out how old the tire is as one tactic for getting it replaced. Does anyone have the file on how to read the date codes handy? Thanks, Dean
:Thanks for all your assistance. I'll see if he can try a :different brand of patches, although he's tried two brands :already. Are there more than two? The brands I can come up with off the top of my head are Nicotrol, Nicoderm and Habitrol. There may be a fourth as well.
Here's a question for all you electrical engineers out there: I bought an 'Infrared detector module' at Radio Shack for $3.95 - it is a little gizmo that senses infrared remotes and produces an output signal. Then I hooked the output through a transistor to an infrared LED. The circuit works like a minature remote control extender in my car - All remote commands are relayed to the CD player hidden in the glove compartment. It works fine with my Denon CD player, but when I tried to build the same circuit for a friend's VCR, it didn't work. The circuit appears to work for other remotes (you can see infrared with a Sony CCD camcorder) but coincidentally it only seems to work for my CD player... Any advice would be appreciated.... Brian
I hope this is the correct newsgroup for this. What is the scoop on Methanol and its future as an alternative fuel for vehicles ? How does it compare to ethanol ? There was some news about health risks involved. Anybody know about that. How does the US Clean Air act impact the use of Methanol by the year 1995 ? I think its Methyl Tertiary butyl ether which the future industries will use as a substitute for conventional fuels. There is company Methanex which produces 12% of the world's supply of Methanol. Does anybody know about it ? Please reply by e-mail as I do not read these newsgroups. Thanks in advance.
Ford tried that also, back in 1983. My 1983 Ranger Pickup had the horn at the end of the turn-signal stalk, instead of in the center of the wheel where God intended it to be. :-) I drove two different cars then (the other an 1984 Camry), and never did get used to pushing the turn-signal stalk to blow the horn. The only time I got it right was when I was getting the annual state-required safety inspection! Not one of Ford's better ideas.
... Funny. A bit disturbing. Forging a posting seems somewhat unethical, even if the subject is as notorious as McElwaine. Followups should definitely not go to sci.space.
Oh, why do you expose your ignorance? The US has been running on debt for the past four generations and has still financed what it pleases. And after the Gulf War, Israel could do whatever it wanted after not decimating Iraq after the Scud attacks. It was encouraged, but by no means forced, to negotiate. Mr. Baker, to address all of your points would be impossible, but in a nutshell, it is hypocritical for you to attack Israel's presence in Lebanon without attacking Syria. Syrian occupation has been hostile, and amounts to annexation. Israel's is clearly defensive. If it were not defensive, you would see all of Lebanon occupied, and governed by Israel. But that is not what Israel wants.
I would just like to point out that it is much easier to place an object at orbital altitude than it is to place it with orbital velocity. For a target 300 km above the surface of Earth, you need a delta-v of 2.5 km/s. Assuming that rockets with specific impulses of 300 seconds are easy to produce, a rocket with a dry weight of 50 kg would require only about 65 kg of fuel+oxidizer. A small dispersal charge embedded in about 20 kg of sand or birdshot (depending on the nature of the structure) would be the payload. I am sure the whole project is well within the capability of the amateur rocketry community. It sounds like a good Science Fair project--'Reduction of Light Pollution Through Applied Ballistics'. Or, it could be part of the Challenge Prize being discussed here: $1 billion for the first person to spend 1 year on the moon, $1 million for the first erradication of an orbital eyesore/CCD burner. I wouldpledge $1000 for the first person to bring it down, and I am sure there are at least 999 other astronomers, nature lovers, or just plain people of good taste who would do likewise. Of course, a Gerald Bull solution might be simpler. (Either the solution Gerald Bull would apply--the use of a large caliber gun; or the solution which was applied to Gerald Bull--the use of a small caliber gun.)
Archive-name: x-faq/part1 Last-modified: 1993/04/04 This article and several following contain the answers to some Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) often seen in comp.windows.x. It is posted to help reduce volume in this newsgroup and to provide hard-to-find information of general interest. Please redistribute this article! This article includes answers to the following questions, which are loosely grouped into categories. Questions marked with a + indicate questions new to this issue; those with significant changes of content since the last issue are marked by !: 0) TOPIC: BASIC INFORMATION SOURCES AND DEFINITIONS 1)! What books and articles on X are good for beginners? 2)! What courses on X and various X toolkits are available? 3)! What conferences on X are coming up? 4) What X-related public mailing lists are available? 5) How can I meet other X developers? 6) What related FAQs are available? 7) How do I ask a net-question so as to maximize helpful responses? 8) What publications discussing X are available? 9) What are these common abbreviations/acronyms? 10) What is the ICCCM? (How do I write X-friendly applications?) 11) What is the X Consortium, and how do I join? 12) Just what are OPEN LOOK and Motif? 13) Just what is OpenWindows? 14) Just what is DECWindows? 15) What is PEX? 16) What is "low-bandwidth X" (LBX)? XRemote? PPP? SLIP? CSLIP? 17) TOPIC: USING X IN DAY-TO-DAY LIFE 18)! What are all these different window managers? 19) Why does my X session exit when I kill my window manager (sic)? 20) Can I save the state of my X session, like toolplaces does? 21) How do I use another window manager with DEC's session manager? 22) How do I change the keyboard auto-repeat rate? 23) How do I remap the keys on my keyboard to produce a string? 24)! How do I make a screendump or print my application? 25) How do I make a color PostScript screendump of the X display? 26) How do I make a screendump including the X cursor? 27) How do I convert/view Mac/TIFF/GIF/Sun/PICT/img/FAX images in X? 28) How can I change the titlebar of my xterm window? 29) Where can I find the xterm control sequences? 30)- Why does the R3 xterm, et al, fail against the R4 server? 31) How can I use characters above ASCII 127 in xterm ? 32) Why are my xterm menus so small? 33) How can I print the current selection? 34) How does Xt use environment variables in loading resources? 35) How to I have the R4 xdm put a picture behind the log-in window? 36) Why isn't my PATH set when xdm runs my .xsession file? 37) How do I keep my $DISPLAY when I rlogin to another machine? 38) How can I design my own font? 39) Why does adding a font to the server not work (sic)? 40) How do I convert a ".snf" font back to ".bdf" font? 41) What is a general method of getting a font in usable format? 42) How do I use DECwindows fonts on my non-DECwindows server? 43) How do I add ".bdf" fonts to my DECwindows server? 44)! How can I set backgroundPixmap in a defaults file? (What is XPM?) 45) Why can't I override translations? Only the first item works. 46) How can I have xclock or oclock show different timezones? 47) I have xmh, but it doesn't work. Where can I get MH? 48) Why am I suddenly unable to connect to my Sun X server? 49) Why don't the R5 PEX demos work on my mono screen? 50)! How do I get my Sun Type-[45] keyboard fully supported by Xsun? 51) How do I report bugs in X? 52) Why do I get "Warning: Widget class version mismatch"? 53) Where can I find a dictionary server for xwebster? 54) TOPIC: OBTAINING X AND RELATED SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE 55) Is X public-domain software? 56) How compatible are X11R3, R4, and R5? What changes are there? 57)! Where can I get X11R5 (source and/or binaries)? 58)! Where can I get patches to X11R5? 59) What is the xstuff mail-archive? 60)! Where can I get X11R4 (source and binaries)? 61) Where can I get OSF/Motif? 62) Does Motif work with X11R4? X11R5? 63) Where can I get toolkits implementing OPEN LOOK? 64)! Where can I get other X sources? (including R5 modifications) 65)! Where can I get interesting widgets? 66) Where can I get a good file-selector widget? 67) What widget is appropriate to use as a drawing canvas? 68) What is the current state of the world in X terminals? 69) Where can I get an X server with a touchscreen or lightpen? 70) Where can I get an X server on a PC (DOS or Unix)? 71) Where can I get an X server on a Macintosh running MacOS? 72) Where can I get X for the Amiga? 73) Where can I get a fast X server for a workstation? 74)! Where can I get a server for my high-end Sun graphics board? 75) Where can I get an "X terminal" server for my low-end Sun 3/50? 76) What terminal emulators other than xterm are available? 77)! Where can I get an X-based editor or word-processor? 78) Where can I get an X-based mailer? 79)! Where can I get an X-based paint/draw program? 80)! Where can I get an X-based plotting program? 81) Where can I get an X-based spreadsheet? 82) Where can I get X-based project-management software? 83) Where can I get an X-based PostScript previewer? 84) Where can I get an X-based GKS package? 85) Where can I get an X-based PEX package? 86) Where can I get an X-based TeX or DVI previewer? 87) Where can I get an X-based troff previewer? 88)! Where can I get a WYSIWYG interface builder? 89) Where can I find X tools callable from shell scripts? 90) Where can I get an X-based debugger? 91)! How can I "tee" an X program identically to several displays? 92) TOPIC: BUILDING THE X DISTRIBUTION [topic needs updating to R5] 93) What's a good source of information on configuring the X build? 94) Why doesn't my Sun with a cg6 work with R5? 95) Why doesn't my Sun with SunOS 4.1 know about _dlsym, etc.? 96) What is this strange problem building X clients on SunOS 4.1.2? 97) Why can't gcc compile X11R4 on my SPARC? 98) What are these I/O errors running X built with gcc? 99) What are these problems compiling X11R4 on the older Sun3? 100) What are these problems compiling the X server on SunOS 4.1.1? 101) What are these problems using R4 shared libraries on SunOS 4? 102) Can OLIT programs run with R5 Xt? (_XtQString undefined) 103) How do I get around the SunOS 4.1 security hole? 104) How do I get around the frame-buffer security hole? 105) TOPIC: BUILDING X PROGRAMS 106) What is Imake? 107) Where can I get imake? 108) I have a program with an Imakefile but no Makefile. What to do? 109) Why can't I link to the Xlib shape routines? 110) What are these problems with "_XtInherit not found" on the Sun? 111) Why can't I compile my R3 Xaw contrib programs under the new X? 112) TOPIC: PROGRAMMING PROBLEMS AND PUZZLES 113) Why doesn't my program get the keystrokes I select for (sic)? 114) How do I figure out what window manager is running? 115) Is there a skeleton X program available? 116) Why does XtGetValues not work for me (sic)? 117) Why don't XtConfigureWidget/XtResizeWidget/XtMoveWidget work? 118) Why isn't there an XtReparentWidget call like XReparentWindow? 119) I'm writing a widget and can't use a float as a resource value. 120) Is this a memory leak in the X11R4 XtDestroyWidget()?! 121) Are callbacks guaranteed to be called in the order registered? 122) Why doesn't XtDestroyWidget() actually destroy the widget? 123) How do I query the user synchronously using Xt? 124) How do I determine the name of an existing widget? 125) Why do I get a BadDrawable error drawing to XtWindow(widget)? 126) Why do I get a BadMatch error when calling XGetImage? 127) How can my application tell if it is being run under X? 128) How do I make a "busy cursor" while my application is computing? 129) How do I fork without hanging my parent X program? 130) Can I make Xt or Xlib calls from a signal handler? 131) What are these "Xlib sequence lost" errors? 132) How can my Xt program handle socket, pipe, or file input? 133) How do I simulate a button press/release event for a widget? 134) Why doesn't anything appear when I run this simple program? 135) What is the difference between a Screen and a screen? 136) Can I use C++ with X11? Motif? XView? 137) Where can I obtain alternate language bindings to X? 138) Can XGetWindowAttributes get a window's background pixel/pixmap? 139) How do I create a transparent window? 140) Why doesn't GXxor produce mathematically-correct color values? 141) Why does every color I allocate show up as black? 142) Why can't my program get a standard colormap? 143) Why does the pixmap I copy to the screen show up as garbage? 144) How do I check whether a window ID is valid? 145) Can I have two applications draw to the same window? 146) Why can't my program work with tvtwm or swm? 147) How do I keep a window from being resized by the user? 148) How do I keep a window in the foreground at all times? 149) How do I make text and bitmaps blink in X? 150)+ How do I get a double-click in Xlib? 151)! How do I render rotated text? 152) What is the X Registry? (How do I reserve names?) If you have suggestions or corrections for any of these answers or any additional information, please send them directly to uunet!craft!faq; the information will be included in the next revision (or possibly the one after that; thanks for the many suggestions which haven't been incorporated yet). This version of the FAQ is in the process of having R3 information replaced by R5 information. This posting is intended to be distributed at approximately the beginning of each month. New versions are archived on export.lcs.mit.edu and are also available from mail-server@pit-manager.mit.edu and archive-server@nic.switch.ch (send "help"). The information contained herein has been gathered from a variety of sources. In many cases attribution has been lost; if you would like to claim responsibility for a particular item, please let me know. Conventions used below: telephone numbers tend to be Bell-system unless otherwise noted; prices on items are not included; email addresses are those that work from the US. X Window System is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. (Note: a script by George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu) to pretty-print this faq is available from ugle.unit.no:/pub/X11/contrib/xfaq2texinfo.) ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 0) TOPIC: BASIC INFORMATION SOURCES AND DEFINITIONS ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 1)! What books and articles on X are good for beginners? Ken Lee of SynOptics (klee@synoptics.com) regularly posts to comp.windows.x and ba.windows.x a bibliography containing cites of all known reference books and how-to manuals and also cites of selected technical articles on X and X programming; it is ftp-able as export.lcs.mit.edu:/contrib/Xbibliography and gatekeeper.dec.com:/pub/X11/contrib/Xbibliography Here is an unordered set of the reference books and tutorials most useful for beginners; most appear on that list [comments are gathered from a variety of places and are unattributable]: Asente, Paul J., and Swick, Ralph R., "X Window System Toolkit, The Complete Programmer's Guide and Specification", Digital Press, 1990. The bible on Xt. A treasury of information, excellent and invaluable. Distributed by Digital Press, ISBN 1-55558-051-3, order number EY-E757E-DP; and by Prentice-Hall, ISBN 0-13-972191-6. Also available through DEC Direct at 1-800-DIGITAL. [The examples are on export.lcs.mit.edu in contrib/ and on gatekeeper.dec.com (16.1.0.2) in pub/X11/contrib as asente-swick.examples.tar.Z. They were also posted to comp.sources.x as xt-examples/part0[1-5].] Jones, Oliver, Introduction to the X Window System, Prentice-Hall, 1988, 1989. ISBN 0-13-499997-5. An excellent introduction to programming with Xlib. Written with the programmer in mind, this book includes many practical tips that are not found anywhere else. This book is not as broad as the O'Reilly Xlib tutorial, but Jones is an experienced X programmer and this shows in the quality and depth of the material in the book. Originally written for X11R1, recent printings have included corrections and additions and current material. Young, Doug. "The X Window System: Applications and Programming with Xt (Motif Version)," Prentice Hall, 1989 (ISBN 0-13-497074-8). The excellent tutorial "X Window System Programming and Applications with Xt," (ISBN 0-13-972167-3) updated for Motif. [The examples are available on export; the ones from the Motif version are in ~ftp/contrib/young.motif.tar.Z.] Young, Doug and John Pew, "The X Window System: Programming and Applications with Xt, OPEN LOOK Edition" (ISBN 0-13-982992-X). The tutorial rewritten for OLIT, with new examples and drag/drop information. [Examples are on export in youg.olit.tar.Z and in you OpenWindows 3 distribution in $OPENWINHOME/share/src/olit/olitbook.] Heller, Dan. "Motif Programmers Manual". The 6th Volume in the O'Reilly series covers Motif application programming; it's full of good examples. With Motif reference pages. (ISBN 0-9937175-70-6.) [The examples are available on uunet in comp.sources.x and nutshell archives.] [A Motif 1.2 will be out soon.] Scheifler, Robert, and James Gettys, with Jim Flowers and David Rosenthal, "X Window System: The Complete Reference to Xlib, X Protocol, ICCCM, XLFD, X Version 11, Release 5, Third Edition," Digital Press, 1992. "The Bible" in its latest revision, an enhanced version of X documentation by the authors of the Xlib documentation. This is the most complete published description of the X programming interface and X protocol. It is the primary reference work and is not introductory tutorial documentation; additional tutorial works will usually be needed by most new X programmers. Digital Press order EY-J802E-DP, ISBN 0-13-971201-1. Nye, Adrian, "Xlib Programming Manual, Volume 1" and "Xlib Reference Manual, Volume 2," O'Reilly and Associates. A superset of the MIT X documentation; the first volume is a tutorial with broad coverage of Xlib, and the second contains reference pages for Xlib functions and many useful reference appendices. Both cover X11R5 (and R4). ISBN 0-937175-26-9 (volume 1) and ISBN 0-937175-27-7 (volume 2). Nye, Adrian, and Tim O'Reilly, "X Toolkit Programming Manual, Volume 4," O'Reilly and Associates, 1989. The folks at O'Reilly give their comprehensive treatment to programming with the MIT Intrinsics; R4 versions are now available, as is a Motif 1.1 version (Volume 4M). O'Reilly, Tim, ed., "X Toolkit Reference Manual, Volume 5," O'Reilly and Associates. A professional reference manual for the MIT X11R4 and X11R5 Xt. Mansfield, Niall. "The X Window System: A User's Guide," Addison-Wesley, 1989. A tutorial introduction to using X, now upgraded for R4. ISBN 0-201-51341-2. Quercia, Valerie and Tim O'Reilly. "X Window System User's Guide," O'Reilly and Associates. A tutorial introduction to using X. ISBN 0-937175-36-6. Also available in R4 and Motif flavors. Mui, Linda and Eric Pearce. "X Window System Administrator's Guide for X11 R4 and R5" [ORA Volume 8]. Help for X users and administrators. ISBN 0-937175-83-8. (Prentice-Hall ordering is 201-767-5937. O'Reilly ordering is 800-998-9938.) In addition, check the X11R4 and X11R5 core distribution in doc/tutorials for some useful papers and tutorials, particularly the file answers.txt. "Late Night's Top Ten X11 Questions" by Dave Lemke (lemke@ncd.com) and Stuart Marks (smarks@sun.com) answers other common questions and some of these here in more detail. New R5 versions of the O'Reilly references (not yet Volume 6) are now available [8/92]. A single volume, "Programmer's Supplement for R5" by David Flanagan, provides an overview of new R5 features; it includes man pages for Xlib, Xt, and Xmu. [ISBN 0-937175-86-2] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 2)! What courses on X and various X toolkits are available? Advanced Computing Environments periodically offers at least a two-day Introduction course. Contact Susie Karlson at 415-941-3399 for information. AT&T offers training in Xlib and in the Xol set. Contact AT&T Corporate Education & Training for more info; 1-800-TRAINER in the USA. BIM Educational Services offers training in X administration and in programming with Xt/Motif and Open Windows; the courses are given near Brussels. Info: edu@sunbim.be, voice +32-(0)2-7595925, fax +32-(0)2-7599209. Communica Software Consultants offers three-day hands-on courses in X designed for the X Window System developer and programmer. Contact Chris Clarkson, telephone 61 8 3732523, e-mail communica@communica.oz.au. [12/92] Cora Computer Technologies (516-485-7343) offers several courses. GHCT offers a one week lecture/lab course for programmmers designed by Douglas Young based on his book "The X Window System: Programming and Applica- tions with Xt, OSF/Motif Edition". Information: Brian Stell (415-966-8805 or ghct!brian@sgi.com). GHG offers a range of courses on X and Motif. Information: 713-488-8806 or training-info@ghg.hou.tx.us. Hands On Learning has live training and self-paced video workshops on topics such as using and/or programming X, Xlib, Xm, Xt, and widget-writing. Information: 617-272-0088, 800-248-9133. Hewlett-Packard (1-800-HPCLASS; or contact your local HP center) offers a 2-day "Introduction to X", a 5-day Xlib course, a 1-day Xt and Motif 1.1 seminar, and a 5-day Motif lab course. Integrated Computer Solutions, Inc., offers several multi-day, hands-on courses on X, Xt, and the Xaw and Motif widget sets, in particular. Information is available at 617-621-0060 and info@ics.com. Intelligent Visual Computing teaches several lab courses on-site for Motif and XView. IVC is at 1-800-776-2810 or +1 919-481-1353 or at info@ivc.com. Iris Computing Laboratories offers five-day Xlib and Xt courses. Info: +1-505-988-2670 or info@spectro.com. IXI Limited (+44 223 462 131) offers regular X training courses for both programmers and non-technical managers. See also: Unipalm, below. Learning Tree International offers a four-day course in X Window System applications development, including Xlib and some information on Motif. For more info call 800-824-9155 (213-417-3484); 613-748-7741 in Canada. Courses are offered in major North American cities; also in London, Stockholm, Tokyo, and elsewhere. Lurnix offers 4-day "type-along courses" on Xt; the course is being ported from Xaw to Xm. Information is available at 800-433-9337 (in CA: -9338). Mitch Trachtenberg and Associates offers regular 5-day lab courses on programming with OSF/Motif, usually in but not limited to Cambridge, MA. Info: +1 617-225-0440, info@mta.com. Non Standard Logics (+33 (1) 43 36 77 50; requests@nsl.fr) offers courses on programming with Xlib, Motif, and creating Motif widgets. OSF Educational Services (617-621-8778) offers one-day seminars and one-week Motif lab courses. John A. Pew offers a 5-day course on OLIT, possibly based on his book on that subject; 408-224-5739. SCO (+44 923 816344, scol-info@sco.COM) offers training for its Open Desktop (Motif) environment in the UK and Europe. Software Pundits (617-270-0639) offers a range of courses. Technology Exchange (617-944-3700) offers a 4-day Xlib/Xt/Motif course. TeleSoft is now offering a 1-day plus 3-day seminar on X and Motif. Information: Bruce Sherman (619-457-2700, bds@telesoft.com). Unipalm XTech offers OSF's 5-day Motif course and a 1-day overview on X. Information: Unipalm Training at +44 952 211797, xtech@unipalm.co.uk. The University of Edinburgh is developing a series of courses on X and related topics primarily for non-profit-making training in academia but also for commercial use. Information: Cliff Booth, Unipalm Ltd, phone +44 223 420002, fax +44 223 426868. Various other vendors are also beginning to offer X training, usually specific to a proprietary toolkit or to Xt and a proprietary widget set: DEC is offering Xlib courses; Sun offers an XView course. Various universities are offering short X courses or overviews: UCLA, Dartmouth, University of Lowell, University of Canberra (within Australia: 062-522422) ... UC Berkeley Extension will have a one week X/Motif class for programmers in San Francisco starting on July 29. The class will have a hands-on lab. For more information contact UCBX at 415 323 8141. Among the best places to find courses are at the various Unix conferences -- Uniforum, Usenix, Unix Expo, Xhibition, the MIT X Technical Conference, the ACM tutorial weeks, &c. In addition, the X Consortium posts approximately quarterly a list of unendorsed speakers and consultants who can provide talks on a variety of X topics. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 3)! What conferences on X are coming up? The Xhibition 93 X trade show and conference, with tutorials, panels, presentations, and vendor exhibits, will be held at the San Jose Convention Center June 7-11, 1993. Information: +1 617 621 0060, xhibit@ics.com. The Tcl/Tk Workshop will be held at UCal Berkeley June 10-11, 1993. Information: tcl93@cs.berkeley.edu. The 1993 Andrew Technical Conference and Consortium Annual Meeting will be held June 24-25, 1993, in Pittsburgh. Information: Wilfred.Hansen@cs.cmu.EDU. The European X User Group holds an annual conference which typically includes includes paper presentations and a vendor exhibit. EXUG'93, "X in the Real World and Multimedia" will be held 9/16-9/17 at the Imperial College of Science and Technology, London. Information: exug@demon.co.uk, niall@uit.co.uk or p.whitehead@cc.ic.ac.uk, +44 (0) 223 426534, fax +44 (0) 223 420251. The Motif show is held in Washington to coincide with the FedUnix and the Federal Open Systems Conference (usually December). Information: motif@fedunix.org or paller@fedunix.org, 301-229-1062, fax 301-229-1063. The MIT X Technical Conference is typically held in January in Boston. Registration information is available from registration@expo.lcs.mit.edu. The XWorld Conference and Exhibition includes tutorials, panels, presentations and vendor exhibits. It is typically held in March in New York City. Information: SIGS Publication Group at 212-274-9135. Other trade shows -- UnixExpo, Uniforum, Siggraph -- show an increasing presence of X, including tutorials and exhibits. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 4) What X-related public mailing lists are available? The xpert mailing list is the general, public mailing list on X maintained by the X Consortium. The mailings are gatewayed, so xpert is almost identical to the comp.windows.x Usenet newsgroup. *** If you get comp.windows.x, you don't need to *** *** be added to the xpert mailing list. *** Otherwise, you can join the list to receive X information electronically. It is best to find a local distribution; perhaps someone within your company is already receiving the mailing. As a last resort, send mail to xpert-request@expo.lcs.mit.edu with a valid return electronic address. The xannounce mailing list carries major X announcements, such as new releases (including public patches from MIT), public reviews, adoption of standards by the MIT X Consortium, and conference announcements. It does NOT carry advertisements, source code, patches, or questions. If you already receive the Usenet news group comp.windows.x.announce or the xpert mailing list, you don't need to be added to the xannounce mailing list. Otherwise, to subscribe, send a request to xannounce-request@expo.lcs.mit.edu. Note: Only redistribution addresses will be accepted for this list -- i.e. no personal addresses. If you wish to receive xannounce yourself, please contact your mail administrator to set up a local redistribution list and to put you on it. comp.windows.x.apps is not gatewayed to a mailing list. In addition, the X Consortium sponsors these public lists: bug-clx CLX bug reports and discussions x-ada X and ada x11-3d people interested in X and 3d graphics ximage people interested in image processing and X xvideo discussion of video extensions for X To subscribe to one of these lists, assuming no-one in your organization already receives it, send mail to <list>-request@expo.lcs.mit.edu with the Subject line including the name of the LIST in caps and the request "addition request". In the body of the message be sure to give an address for your local distribution which is accessible from MIT (eddie.mit.edu). A mailing list for topics related to OPEN LOOK is sponsored by Greg Pasquariello of Unify corporation; send to openlook-request@unify.com (or openlook-request%unify@uunet.uu.net) for information. A mailing list for bugs in the publicly-available version of XView source, in particular, is sponsored by Sun; send for information to xviewbug-trackers-request@sun.com. A mailing list for topics related to Motif is sponsored by Kee Hinckley of Alfalfa Software, Inc.; send to motif-request@alfalfa.com for information. (This group is gatewayed to comp.windows.x.motif.) A mailing list for topics related to the XPM pixmap-format is sponsored by Arnaud Le Hors of Group Bull; send to xpm-talk-request@sa.inria.fr for information. [1/91] A mailing list discussing InterViews can be subscribed to by sending to interviews-request@interviews.stanford.edu. A mailing list (amiga-x11@nic.funet.fi) for topics related to the port of X11 to the Amiga can be subscribed by sending to mailserver@nic.funet.fi a message containing Subject: Adding myself to AMIGA-X11 SUBS AMIGA-X11 Your Real Name A mailing list discussing ParcPlace's (formerly Solbourne's) OI (Object Interface) toolkit can be subscribed to at oi-users-requests@bbn.com. A mailing list discussing multi-threaded Xlib can be subscribed to at mt-xlib-request@xsoft.xerox.com. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 5) How can I meet other X developers? O'Reilly and Associates sponsors a mailing list for the use of X user group organizers; subscribe by sending to listserv@ora.com the message "subscribe xgroups your@internet.address". Local area X user's groups are listed in Issue 4 of O'Reilly's X Resource journal; a list may also be available from xug@ics.com. The French X User Group is called AFUX and is based in Sophia Antipolis by CERICS. Information can be obtained from Miss Vasseur or Miss Forest; BP 148; 157, rue Albert Einstein; 06561 Valbonne Cedex; Phone: +33 93 95 45 00 / 45 01; Fax: +33 93 95 48 57. [10/90] The European X User Group was formed in 1989 to represent X users in Europe. It holds technical conferences at regular intervals. The EXUG also publishes a regular newsletter which is distributed free of charge to members. The EXUG also runs a email mailing list for members which is frequently used to address issues of European interest in X. The EXUG can be contacted at P.Whitehead@cc.ic.ac.uk, +44 (071) 225 8754, fax +44 (071) 823 9497. GXUGiV is the German X User's Group in Vorbereitung ("in preparation") being formed for X programmers and users; it is associated with the EXUG. All interested should contact Olaf Heimburger (+49 30 7 79 54 64; and at mcvax!unido!tub!olaf). ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 6) What related FAQs are available? Liam R. E. Quin (lee@sq.sq.com) posts a FAQ on Open Look to comp.windows.open-look. Jan Newmarch (jan@pandonia.canberra.edu.au) posts a FAQ on Motif to comp.windows.x.motif. Peter Ware (ware@cis.ohio-state.edu) posts a FAQ for comp.windows.x.intrinsics; it is on export in contrib/FAQ-Xt. Art Mulder (art@cs.ualberta.ca) posts to comp.windows.x a FAQ on maximizing the performance of X. Steve Kotsopoulos (steve@ecf.toronto.edu) posts to comp.windows.x a FAQ about using X on Intel-based Unix systems. The FAQ in alt.binaries.pictures contains information on viewing images with X and on massaging image formats. The FAQ in comp.mail.mh (gatewayed to MH-users@ics.uci.edu) includes a section on xmh. The FAQ in comp.lang.lisp contains information on several interface tools and toolkits. There exists a PEX/PHiGS FAQ. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 7) How do I ask a net-question so as to maximize helpful responses? When asking for help on the net or X mailing lists, be sure to include all information about your setup and what you are doing. The more specific you are, the more likely someone will spot an error in what you are doing. Without all the details, people who want to help you often have to guess -- if they are able to respond at all. Always mention what version of X you are using and where you got it from. If your server came from a different source as the rest of your X system, give details of that, too. Give the machine type, operating system, and O/S version for both the client and server machine. It may also be appropriate to mention the window manager, compiler, and display hardware type you are using. Then tell exactly what you are doing, exactly what happens, and what you expected/wanted to happen. If it is a command that fails, include the exact transcript of your session in the message. If a program you wrote doesn't work the way you expect, include as little of the source necessary (just a small test case, please!) for readers to reproduce the problem. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 8) What publications discussing X are available? The trade magazines (Unix World, Unix Review, Computer Language, etc.) are publishing more articles on X. Two X-specific publications include: - O'Reilly and Associates publishes "The X Resource: A Practical Journal of the X Window System" (103 Morris St. #A, Sebastapol, CA 95472). Editorial information: Adrian Nye, adrian@ora.com. - The X Journal is started bi-monthly publication September 1991 on a variety of X topics. Subscription information: The X Journal, Subscriber Services, Dept XXX, P.O. Box 3000, Denville, NJ 07834, USA. Editorial information: editors%topgun@uunet.uu.net. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 9) What are these common abbreviations/acronyms? Xt: The X Toolkit Intrinsics is a library layered on Xlib which provides the functionality from which the widget sets are built. An "Xt-based" program is an application which uses one of those widget sets and which uses Intrinsics mechanisms to manipulate the widgets. Xmu: The Xmu library is a collection of Miscellaneous Utility functions useful in building various applications and widgets. Xaw: The Athena Widget Set is the MIT-implemented sample widget set distributed with X11 source. Xm: The OSF/Motif widget set from the Open Software Foundation; binary kits are available from many hardware vendors. Xhp (Xw): The Hewlett-Packard Widget Set was originally based on R2++, but several sets of patches exist which bring it up to R3, as it is distributed on the X11R4 tapes. Supplemental patches are available to use it with R4/R5. CLX: The Common Lisp X Interface is a Common Lisp equivalent to Xlib. XDMCP: The X Display Manager Protocol provides a uniform mechanism for a display such as an X terminal to request login service from a remote host. XLFD: The X Logical Font Description Conventions describes a standard logical font description and conventions to be used by clients so that they can query and access those resources. RTFM: Common expert-speak meaning "please locate and consult the relevant documentation -- Read the Forgotten Manual". UTSL: A common expression meaning "take advantage of the fact that you aren't limited by a binary license -- Use The Source, Luke". API: Application-Programmer Interface. The function calls, etc., in a programming library. BDF: Bitmap Distribution Format; a human-readable format for uncompiled X fonts. GUI: graphical user interface. UIL: the User Interface Language, part of OSF/Motif which lets programmers specify a widget hierarchy in a simple "outline" form WCL: the Widget Creation Language, a package which extends the understanding of the Xt resource format such that a widget hierarchy and actions on the widgets can be specified through the resources file GIL: the file format put out by Sun's OpenWindows Developers Guide 3.0 UIMS: User Interface Management System ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 10) What is the ICCCM? (How do I write X-friendly applications?) The Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual is one of the official X Consortium standards documents that define the X environment. It describes the conventions that clients must observe to coexist peacefully with other clients sharing the same server. If you are writing X clients, you need to read and understand the ICCCM, in particular the sections discussing the selection mechanism and the interaction between your client and the window manager. Get it either: - as part of the R4 distribution from MIT - in the later editions of the Scheifler/Gettys "X Window System" book - as an appendix in the new version of O'Reilly's Volume 0, "X Protocol Reference Manual." A version in old copies of their Volume 1 is obsolete. The version in the Digital Press book is much more readable, thanks to the efforts of Digital Press's editors to improve the English and the presentation. [from David Rosenthal, 10/90] - the ICCCM was updated for R5; updates are published in O'Reilly's "Programmer's Supplement for Release 5". The complete document is on the R5 tapes. Alternate definition: the ICCCM is generally the M in "RTFM" and is the most-important of the least-read X documents. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 11) What is the X Consortium, and how do I join? The MIT X Consortium was formed in January of 1988 to further the development of the X Window System and has as its major goal the promotion of cooperation within the computer industry in the creation of standard software interfaces at all layers in the X Window System environment. MIT's role is to provide the vendor-neutral architectural and administrative leadership required to make this work. Membership in the Consortium open to any organization. There are two categories of membership, Member (for large organizations) and Affiliate (for smaller organizations). Most of the Consortium's activities take place via electronic mail, with meetings when required. As designs and specifications take shape, interest groups are formed from experts in the participating organizations. Typically a small multi-organization architecture team leads the design, with others acting as close observers and reviewers. Once a complete specification is produced, it may be submitted for formal technical review by the Consortium as a proposed standard. The standards process typically includes public review (outside the Consortium) and a demonstration of proof of concept. Your involvement in the public review process or as a Member or Affiliate of the Consortium is welcomed. Write to: Bob Scheifler, MIT X Consortium, Laboratory for Computer Science, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139. [For complete information see the XCONSORTIUM man page from the X11R4 distribution, from which this information is adapted.] [2/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 12) Just what are OPEN LOOK and Motif? OPEN LOOK and Motif are two graphical user interfaces (GUIs). OPEN LOOK was developed by Sun with help from AT&T and many industry reviewers; Motif was developed by the Open Software Foundation (OSF) with input from many OSF members. OPEN LOOK is primarily a user-interface specification and style-guide; there are several toolkits which can be used to produce OPEN LOOK applications. Motif includes an API specification; the only sanctioned Motif toolkit is the one from OSF. However, there are other toolkits which can be used to produce programs which look and behave like OSF/Motif; one of these, ParcPlace's (formerly Solbourne's) OI, is a "virtual toolkit" which provides objects in the style of OPEN LOOK and Motif, at the user's choice. OPEN LOOK GUI is also the name of a product from AT&T, comprising their OPEN LOOK Intrinsics Toolkit and a variety of applications. [Thanks to Ian Darwin, ian@sq.com, 5/91] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 13) Just what is OpenWindows? Open Windows (3.0) is a Sun product that encompasses: a window system that combines a NeWS and X11-compliant server (X/NeWS); a user-interface specification (OPEN LOOK) and a series of toolkits that implement it (including the SunView-like XView and the Xt-based OLIT); Xlib and Xt implementations; and a number of utilities (olwm window manager, filemgr, shelltool, etc.). [thanks to Frank Greco (fgreco@govt.shearson.COM), 8/90; 4/92] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 14) Just what is DECWindows? DECWindows is a DEC product that encompasses: an X11 server; the XUI toolkit, including the Dwt widget set and UIL; Xlib and Xt implementations; a session manager; and a number of utilities (dxwm window manager, dxcalendar, dxpsview, etc.). (At some point Motif flavors of the toolkit and applications will be shipped.) [8/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 15) What is PEX? PEX is the "PHiGS Extension to X". PHiGS stands for "Programmer's Hierarchical Interactive Graphics System" and is essentially a library of functions that simplifies the creation and manipulation of 3D graphics. Many platforms are capable of performing in hardware the computations involved in rendering 3D objects; the extension allows the client (PHiGS in this case) to take advantage of the specialized hardware for 3D graphics. Sun Microsystems is currently contracted to develop a freely redistributable (copyright similar to the current X copyright) sample implementation. Source and documentation are available in the R5 release. Several vendors are currently selling independently-developed PEX servers for their workstations and X terminals. [last modified 10/91] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 16) What is "low-bandwidth X" (LBX)? XRemote? PPP? SLIP? CSLIP? There are several options for using X over serial lines: SLIP - Serial Line IP; this is both a mechanism and a protocol for sending IP packets over point-to-point serial links. It has been around for several years, and implementations are available for many of the major TCP/IP implementations. Most X Terminal vendors supply this as a checkoff item, although nobody really ever uses it since it is horribly slow. The TCP/IP headers add 40 bytes per packet and the TCP/IP encoding of the X protocol is rather verbose (rightfully so; it is optimized for packing and unpacking over high-speed links). CSLIP - Compressed header SLIP; this is a variant of SLIP that compresses the 40 bytes of TCP/IP headers down to about 5 or 6 bytes. It still doesn't do anything about reencoding the X protocol. Modems that do compression can help, but they increase packet latency (it takes time to dribble the uncompressed data through typical serial interfaces, plus the compression assembly time). PPP - Point-to-Point Protocol; this is an emerging standard for point-to-point links over serial lines that has a more complete set of option negotiation than SLIP. A growing number of people see the combination of PPP for the serial line management and CSLIP for the header compression as becoming common for running normal TCP/IP protocols over serial lines. Running raw X over the wire still needs compression somewhere to make it usable. XRemote - this is the name of both a protocol and set of products originally developed by NCD for squeezing the X protocol over serial lines. In addition to using a low level transport mechanism similar to PPP/CSLIP, XRemote removes redundancies in the X protocol by sending deltas against previous packets and using LZW to compress the entire data stream. This work is done by either a pseudo-X server or "proxy" running on the host or in a terminal server. There are several advantages to doing compression outside the modem: (1) You don't *have* to have compressing modems in there if you wouldn't otherwise be using them (e.g. if you were going to be directly connected), and (2) It reduces the I/O overhead by cutting down on the number of bytes that have to cross the serial interface, and (3) In addition to the effects of #2, it reduces the latency in delivering packets by not requiring the modem to buffer up the data waiting for blocks to compress. LBX - Low Bandwidth X; this is an X Consortium project that is working on a standard for this area. It is being chaired by NCD and Xerox and is using NCD's XRemote protocol as a stepping stone in developing the new protocol. LBX will go beyond XRemote by adding proxy caching of commonly-used information (e.g. connection setup data, large window properties, font metrics, keymaps, etc.) and a more efficient encoding of the X protocol. The hope is to have a Standard ready for public review in the first half of next year and a sample implementation available in R6. Additional technical information about how XRemote works and a few notes on how LBX might be different are available via anonymous ftp from export.lcs.mit.edu in contrib/ in the following files: XRemote-slides.ps slides describing XRemote XRemote-LBX-diffs.ps more slides describing some of LBX [information provided by Jim Fulton, jim@ncd.com; 7/92] There is also a set of slides on export from Jim Fulton's talk at the 7th MIT X Technical Conference. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 17) TOPIC: USING X IN DAY-TO-DAY LIFE ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 18)! What are all these different window managers? The window manager in X is just another client -- it is not part of the X window system, although it enjoys special privileges -- and so there is no single window manager; instead, there are many which support different ways for the user to interact with windows and different styles of window layout, decoration, and keyboard and colormap focus. In approximate chronological order (generally, the more recent ones are more conformant with the ICCCM): wm: this simple title-bar window manager was phased out in R2 or R3 uwm: the Universal Window Manager is still popular for its speed, although it is very outdated. Moved to contrib/ on the R4 tape. twm (old): Tom's Window Manager was among the first non-MIT window managers and offered the user a great deal of customization options in a re-parenting window manager. awm: the Ardent Window Manager remains a hotbed for hackers and offers some features (dynamic menus) not found on more current window managers cwm: cwm is part of the Andrew system. rtl: Siemen's window manager tiles windows so that they don't overlap and resizes the window with the focus to its preferred size. dxwm: Digital's dxwm is part of the DECwindows offering hpwm: HP's window manager offers a 3D look; it is a precursor of mwm mwm: the Motif window manager is part of the OSF/Motif toolkit tekwm: Tektronix's window manager offering olwm (Sun): olwm implements the OPEN LOOK GUI and some of the Style Guide functionality olwm (AT&T): ditto gwm: Bull's Generic Window Manager emulates others with a built-in Lisp interpreter. Version 1.7h (10/91) is on the R5 contrib tape; 1.7n is on avahi.inria.fr and export.lcs.mit.edu. [3/93] m_swm: the Sigma window manager is on the R4 tape pswm: Sun's PostScript-based pswm is part of the OpenWindows release swm: Solbourne's swm is based on the OI toolkit and offers multiple GUI support and also a panned virtual window; configuration information comes from the resources file twm (new): MIT's new Tab Window Manager from the R4 tape is a reworked twm and is the basis for several derivatives, including the one on the R5 tape vtwm: vtwm offers some of the virtual-desktop features of swm, with a single-root window implementation; it is based on the R4 twm and is available on archive servers. A new version, vtwm-5.0, is based on R5.9 and is available from export. [3/92] tvtwm: Tom's Virtual Tab Window Manager is also based on the R4 twm and provides a virtual desktop modeled on the virtual-root window of swm. It is available on archive servers olvwm: the vtwm-style virtual-desktop added to Sun's olwm. It is available on archive servers; version 3.3 [1/93] is on export. mvwm: the vtwm-style virtual-desktop added to OSF's mwm. A beta version is floating around (most recently from suresh@unipalm.co.uk) but requires a source license to OSF/Motif 1.1.3 [3/92]. NCDwm: the window manager local to NCD terminals offers an mwm look XDSwm: the window manager local to Visual Technology's terminals ctwm: Claude Lecommandeur's (lecom@sic.epfl.ch) modification of the R5 twm offers 32 virtual screens in the fashion of HP vuewm; source is on export. Version 2.2.2 [2/93] also offers the window overview used in vtwm and tvtwm. vuewm: HP's MWM-based window manager offers configurable workspaces. 4Dwm: SGI's enhanced MWM piewm: this version of tvtwm offers pie menus ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 19) Why does my X session exit when I kill my window manager (sic)? It needn't. What is probably happening is that you are running your window manager as the last job in your .xsession or .xinitrc file; your X session runs only as long as the last job is running, and so killing your window manager is equivalent to logging out. Instead, run the window manager in the background, and as the last job instead invoke something safe like: exec xterm -name Login -rv -iconic or any special client of your devising which exits on some user action. Your X session will continue until you explicitly logout of this window, whether or not you kill or restart your window manager. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 20) Can I save the state of my X session, like toolplaces does? Although no known window manager directly supports such a feature -- which may be equivalent to writing out a .xinitrc or .xsession file naming the geometry and WM_COMMAND of each application (but olvwm may have something close) -- there is a contributed application which does much of what you are looking for, although it is not as complete as the SunView program toolplaces. Look for the application "xplaces" on an archive-server near you. There are several versions of this program floating around; look for a recent vintage. [10/90] Some new pseudo session-managers such as HP's vuewm provide for the saving of sessions including information on the geometry of currently-running applications and the resource database. [Bjxrn Stabell (bjoerns@staff.cs.uit.no); 3/93.] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 21) How do I use another window manager with DEC's session manager? DEC's session manager will start dxwm up by default. To override this, add to your .Xdefaults file something like this line, naming the full pathname: sm.windowManagerName: /wherever/usr/bin/X11/your_favorite_wm ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 22) How do I change the keyboard auto-repeat rate? You can turn auto-repeat on or off by using "xset r on|off". The X protocol, however, doesn't provide for varying the auto-repeat rate, which is a capability not supported by all systems. Some servers running on systems that support this, however, may provide command-line flags to set the rate at start-up time. If you have control over server start-up (see the man pages for xinit and xdm), you can invoke the server with the chosen settings; for example, you can start the Xsun server from MIT with the options "-ar1 350 -ar2 30" to reduce the sensitivity of the keyboard. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 23) How do I remap the keys on my keyboard to produce a string? There is no method of arranging for a particular string to be produced when you press a particular key. The xmodmap client, which is useful for moving your CTRL and ESC keys to useful places, just rearranges keys and does not do "macro expansion." Some (few) clients, including xterm and several X-based editors, accept a translation resource such as: xterm*VT100.Translations: #override \ <Key>F1: string("setenv DISPLAY unix:0") which permits the shorthand F1 to be pressed to reset the display locally within an xterm; it takes effect for new xterm clients. To include control characters in the string, use \nnn, where nnn is the octal encoding of the control character you want to include. Window managers, which could provide this facility, do not yet; nor has a special "remapper" client been made available. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- David B. Lewis faq%craft@uunet.uu.net "Just the FAQs, ma'am." -- Joe Friday
Already say it the other week on CBC Snoozeworld Yeah, I thought Bonanza was full of lies about the West... Why the hell would such an oil rich (and hydroelectric potential to be exploited) spend billions on a nuclear energy programme? Yeah, and we have every reason in the world to trust the Iranian regime. After all, they've been *so* forward with us in the past.... Maybe he *is* God!
Checker Motors went out of business in 1982. It's hard to get old Checkers that are worth restoring, since almost every one was a fleet vehicle that was driven into the ground. If you can get a body in decent shape the mechanicals should all be available _somewhere_ - Checker used whatever parts were around. For instance, I had a Chevy straight six and a GMC Truck radiator and a Ford rear in mine. Actually, you want a Checker Special if you can find one.
Yes, victims exist. There are a staggering number of victims in the world and more each day. I think on balance, intervention would create more victims, including American ones. Since the first responsibility of the US government is to protect Americans, I think they serve that role best by staying away from Bosnia and other regional conflicts. Of course not. The Jews were not trying to carve a territory out of Germany either, and except for small-scale resistance and a few larger uprisings, did not have an army or a government. I see the pattern of atrocities as a fairly often practiced tactic of a colonizing power - driving away and/or eliminating the population of an area they want to control. The US tried basically that in Vietnam, the Iraqis in Kuwait, the Israelis in Palestine, South Africa, etc, etc, etc. It sucks, it's ugly, and it's saddening. But it is not genocide. It is not my impression that the Serbs want to eliminate every Muslim in Yugoslavia. I still say the Bosnians are getting their asses kicked; they should surrender and evacuate the areas they can't hold. I am a staunch Republican, BTW. The irony of arguing against military intervention with arguments based on Vietnam has not escaped me. I was opposed to US intervention in Somalia for the same reasons, although clearly it was not nearly as risky. Well, one thing you have to remember is, the press likes a good story. Good for business, don't you know. And BTW, not "everyone" wants to help the side that is less like us. I never said the two sides were morally equivalent, I said neither one is innocent. There are just too many good reasons to stay away: 1) The Europeans are perfectly able to deal with this dispute on their borders in any way we do it. Put another way, we have no assistance to offer the Europeans which they do not already possess themselves. It is not good to promote the idea in anyone's mind that the United States is responsible for cleaning up every bloody mess in the world. 2) Clinton is not the man to lead this country into a military adventure. Full stop.
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: From Israeli press. TORTURE. /* Written 4:41 pm Apr 16, 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc:mideast.forum */ /* ---------- "From Israeli press. TORTURE." ---------- */ FROM THE ISRAELI PRESS. Newspaper: Ma'ariv Date: 18. December 1992 Author: Avi Raz Subject: Torture Title of article: Moderate physical pressure Several times in the course of the long hours in the interrogation room in Tulkarm prison, during which he says he was humiliated, beaten and tortured, Omar Daoud Jaber heard his interrogator, a Shabak agent 'Captain Louis', chatting on the phone with his wife. "At those moments", Omar said, "I felt that he was like a humanbeing, but right after he finished talking, he would be beat me and say, 'You listened to the conversation and enjoyed yourself' and I understood that he was not really a human being". In late October 1992, after 38 days in detention at Tulkarm prison, Omar Jaber was released without charges. "Among the Jews, as among the Arabs, there are good people and bad people", he said after his release, "but there, in Tulkarm, in the interrogations rooms, you cannot find even one person about whom you can say that he is a human being". Although he left the detention installation in Tulkarm bruised and humiliated ("I sat at home for ten days. My hands shook from nerves"), one may consider Omar Jaber lucky: He got out, not so healthy, but entire, and even ultimately returned to normal functioning, at the small solar heater plant he owns. In contrast, Hassan Bader al-Zbeidi, for example, was released seven weeks ago from detention in Tulkarm after 33 days in the Shabak wing, cut off from his surroundings. He doesn't speak or react. Mustafa Barakat, aged only 23, who was arrested in early August and was brought to the Tulkarm detention installation, left it one day later - dead. "We have recently received an especially large number of testimonies concerning cruel tortures employed at the Tulkarm detention installation by Shabak interrogators", noted Dr. Niv Gordon, director of the Association of Israel and Palestinian Physicians for Human Rights. (...) The right to complain against the Shabak does not excite Anan Saber Makhlouf, a 20 year old student. In fact, he was extremely fearful about describing the manner in which he was interrogated in Tulkarm prison, in case the publication in the paper would return him to detention and lead to renewed mistreatment. (...follow description of tortures....) Omar, a tall bearded man, was silent. "I do not want to talk about it", he finally said, quietly. Some time later, embarrased and ashamed, he spoke: "Sometimes he beats you and beats you until you'll kiss his hand, and not only his hand. Even the hands of another interrogator, and another, whom he calls into the room, later if I want, you will kiss my ass." These things take place in an Israeli army detention installation, located within the military government compound in Tulkarm (West Bank). But the Shabak interrogation wing is a separate kingdom. In early March the IDF allowed representatives of B'Tselem, the Israeli Information Center for Human Rights in the Territories, to visit Tulkarm prison, but denied them access to the interrogation wing. "The interrogation wing is Shabak property, being solely under Shabak responsibility. All interrogations are performed by it", said Lieutnant Sharon Sho'an, the commander of the installation, according to the internal report written by B'tselem member, Yuval Ginbar, following the visit. Major David Pe'er, governing commander of the prison system in the Central Command, was quoted in the report: "There is an ethical problem here - no one can enter the interrogation wing".
There have been a *lot* of posts lately about "I wanna buy my first bike - is a GSXR/ZX/CBR/FZR a good bike to learn on?" etc. I think I'm going to put together a FAQ on buying a new bike. Ravi used to post one all the time.
There was a recession, and none of the potential entrants could raise any money. The race organizers were actually supposed to be handling part of the fundraising, but the less said about that the better.
SeAL Team six should have handled it? Delta Force? The BATF had more than enough equipment and men. They did not have good intel, but they did have poor planning. They fucked up. Even in just the most basic military sense, they fucked up. Excuses do not justify body counts. And your excuses fall upon deaf ears when the same BATF has shown shitty leadership despite more people, better weapons, and exclusive use of armor against their targets. BATF is nothing more than a private army of the government. Do the agents swear an oath, as I did, to uphold the Constitution? You know, that document that stipulates the highest law of the land? If they do, they should be up for charges in a court of law. Remember, the law? That's the whole reason for any of this. Yeah, I've been related to many of them. This is flame-bait, right? I'm not paying your price. Mind if I sight in my guns on your body? Think of it as the price you have to pay that we may all live without fear of my making a stray shot. It's fine and dandy to revel in the other guy being the target and your supposed safety. In the military, we called this "chicken shit." Leadership from the rear. The War on Drugs, despite being a catchy term for nothing more than a continuation of policy since before this century, seems to have gotten you convinced that my rights aren't worth your good vibes. Mind if I cut your net access, as well as access to any and all forms of expression? See, you make me nervous, what with you being able to influence so many. I'm sure you can see how this is the price we have to pay for freedom and liberty in this country, as well as a fair and unbiased judiciary. Mind if we include you in the body count? I'm sure we could all file it under "civic improvement" and your life wouldn't have been sacrificed in vain. If you like, you can will your estate to defecit reduction, too. Now, when you learn how the law protects, or doesn't protect, everybody equally and how our collective boot may one day be on your collective throat, perhaps at that time you will mature enough to realize just what you're talking about and how serious this is. Next time, include a smiley. While I hesitate to think that you could have meant this seriously, it deserved a small flame anyway.
henrik] Let me clearify Mr. Turkish; henrik] ARMENIA is NOT getting "itchy". SHE is simply LETTING the WORLD KNOW henrik] that SHE WILL NO LONGER sit there QUIET and LET TURKS get away with henrik] their FAMOUS tricks. Armenians DO REMEMBER of the TURKISH invasion henrik] of the Greek island of CYPRESS WHILE the world simply WATCHED. Onur Yalcin] It is more appropriate to address netters with their names as Onur Yalcin] they appear in their signatures (I failed to do so since you did Onur Yalcin] not bother to sign your posting). Not only because it is the Onur Yalcin] polite thing to do, but also to avoid addressing ladies with Onur Yalcin] "Mr.", as you have done. Fine. Please, accept my opology ! Onur Yalcin] Secondly, the island of which the name is more correctly spelled Onur Yalcin] as Cyprus has never been Greek, but rather, it has been home to Onur Yalcin] a bi-communal society formed of Greeks and Turks. It seems that ^^^^^^^^^^^ Onur Yalcin] you know as little about the history and the demography of the Onur Yalcin] island, as you know about the essence of Turkey's Onur Yalcin] military intervention to it under international agreements. bi-communal society ? Then why DID NOT Greece INVADE CYPRUS ? Onur Yalcin] Be that as it may, an analogy between an act of occupation in Onur Yalcin] history and what is going on today on Azerbaijani land, can only Onur Yalcin] be drawn with the expansionist policy that Armenia is now pursuing. Buch of CRAP and you know it. Nagarno-Karabagh has ALWAYS been PART of ARMENIA and it was STALIN who GAVE IT to the AZERIS. Go back and review the HISTORY. The Armenians in Nagarno-Karabagh are simply DEFENDING their RIGHTS to keep their homeland and it is the AZERIS that are INVADING their teritory. Onur Yalcin] But, I could agree that it is not for us to issue diagnoses to Onur Yalcin] the political conduct of countries, and promulgate them in such Onur Yalcin] terminology as "itchy-bitchy"... I was not the one that STATED IT.
Has an X version of whois been written out there? If so, where can I ftp it from? Thanks.
Bottom line: I did it and it worked. Some 'tips and techniques' are included here: I found that I needed some smaller sockets to undo the shocks. And a can of WD40 helped... The sockets needed were metric (exact fit) but I was able to use some SAE sockets... 13/16 and 15/16 are rather close to 21 and 24mm... It CAN be fun having a Canadian Ford ... Didn't have to undo the end bolts/bushings. Just the 2 U bolts on each side and the shock absorber. Jacking up the frame some more (had to put the spare tire on the garage floor and put a wooden platform on top of that to get the 'floor jack' high enough to raise the frame ... I't one TALLL truck...) lifted the spring free of the axel. Taking out the block gave me enough room to undo the pin holding the spring pack together. The spring pack was held together with a nut on top and a round head on the other end.... No wrench head... Vice Grips worked fine... I soaked the nut with WD40 and it came right off. Flipped the bottom spring and then... I donno ... I'm a little more sore today than after working on a 1911A1 ... A 1.5 foot pipe cheater was a real help. Torque spec for the U bolt nuts is 150 to 200 ft-lbs (!). A 1911-A1 doesn't have that kind of torque spec ... It was a 'challenge' to get the 'pack bolt' back in the spring pack. Squeeze pack with two hands, hold bolt with third, put nut on with fourth while picking up wrench and vice grips with fifth and sixth hands ... I used some string to tie the pack together while holding the pin in for alignment... then I could let go to get the {nut, wrench, Vice Grips...}. Getting the pin back lined up with the lift block was a challenge too... until I discovered that the axel had 1) Tilted and/or 2) rolled forward. One the drivers side, a bottle jack under the front of the differential tilted it back in line enough for the pin head to drop into the right hole. On the passenger side, I had to wrestle the wheel into rolling forward about 1/2 inch to get things to line up. Spent more than an hour working on getting the pin head into the hole in the lift block with levers and ropes and impliments of distruction before I took a break and thought about WHY it wasn't lined up anymore (since it HAD been lined up before, and *I* didn't move it, something ELSE must have ... hmmm, axle no longer constrained not to move ... hmmm, move it back... hmmm...). After that, it was all much easier to 'close up'. BTW, the ride is now softer, but not quite as soft as I was hoping for. At least it now sits level.. -- E. Michael Smith ems@apple.COM 'Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it.' - Goethe
Melissa, there is a simpler procedure called a "Dorsal slit" that is really the first step of the usual circumcision. It is simpler and quicker, but the pain is about the same as circumcision after the anesthetic wears off and the aesthetic result post healing is not as good. See your friendly urologist for more details. Len Howard .
GB> From: geb@cs.pitt.edu (Gordon Banks) GB> >(I am excepting migraine, which is arguably neurologic). GB> I hope you meant "inarguably". Given the choice, I would rather argue <g>. No arguments about migranous aura; in fact, current best evidence is that aura is intrinsicially neuronal (a la spreading depression of Leao) rather than vascular (something causing vasoconstriction and secondary neuronal ischemia). Migraine without aura, however, is a fuzzier issue. There do not seem to be objectively measurable changes in brain function. The Copenhagen mafia (Lauritzen, Olesen, et al) have done local CBF studies on migraine without aura, and (unlike migraine with aura, but like tension-type) they found no changes in LCBF. From one (absurd) perspective, *all* pain is neurologic, because in the absence of a nervous system, there would not be pain. From another (tautologic) perspective, any disease is in the domain of the specialty that treats it. Neurologists treat headache, therefore (at least in the USA) headache is neurologic. Whether neurologic or not, nobody would disagree that disabling headaches are common. Perhaps my fee-for-service neurologic colleagues, scrounging for cases, want all the headache patients they can get. Working on a salary, however, I would rather not fill my office with patients holding their heads in pain.
Freedom of speech does not mean that others are compelled to give one the means to speak publicly. Some systems have regulations prohibiting the dissemination of racist and bigoted messages from accounts they issue. Apparently, that's not the case with virginia.edu, since you are still posting.
I think in Illinois venereal disease (the old ones, not AIDS) was included. Syphillis was, for sure. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
My daughter has Epilepsy and I attend a monthly parent support group. Just Wednesday night, a mother was telling how she decided to throw all the junk food out and see if it made a difference in her 13 year-old's seizures. He was having about one seizure per week. She reported that she did this on Thursday (3/11), he had a seizure on Saturday and then went 4 weeks without a seizure!! On Easter he went to Grandma's and ate candy, pop - anything he wanted. He had a seizure the next day. She sees sensitivity to nutrasweet, sugar, colors, caffine and corn. With corn she says, he gets very nervous and aggresive. With my own daughter (age 7) , I think she is also sensitive and stays away from those foods on her own. She has never had gum, won't eat candy, prefers an apple to a cookie, doesn't like chocolate and won't even use toothpaste!!! Her brother, on the other hand, is a junk food addict!
Makes sense, since the new Mercedes Benz engines go from 2.2L-4 to a 2.8L-6. Nothing in between. BTW, I beleive the numbers on those MB engines are 156 and 225 hp respectively. The one-upmanship in hp might induce BMW to create a larger six. Also, the 2.6 190E has lagged behind the 3-er 2.5 for some time wrt hp. I am sure the Bavarians wouldn't want to be "shown-up" by the Schwabians. PS- those MB engines haven't been released over here yet.
gassed. But apparently true. My opinion, only, of course. No, it is not. It is possible the FBI planned for this to happen, and the gunfire heard was the FBI keeping the folks inside. I'm not proposing this as the way it went down, but just to point out that it's not "undeniable" that if they walked out yesterday, they would be alive today. My heart "bleeds" for no one. You are the "bleeding heart". And I'm sure beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as I do. You can not say the heartless things you have said if you did. "they got what they wanted". What kind of creature are you that you can believe this? We agree on this. Now lets have your God, the FBI, investigated, too. - rethought landed Jim -- jmd@handheld.com
Such submissions have been made before, e.g. regarding Jews. All you Dirty Harry types, eager to pull a gun on some scum guilty of scratching your stupid painted metal boxes on wheels : have you ever KILLED a human to speak so lightly about such matters ?
Hello, way back in the mists of time, I had a set of patches written by Richard Caley (I believe to the standars distribution, patch level 6) which added regular expressions in the .tvtwmrc file, multiple icon regions, squeezable icons, and f.deleteordestroy function. I still have the patches, however, I can no longer find the sources to which they applied ;-). I'd appreciate if some kind soul could send me a pointer to where I could find the sources. Has anyone updated the patches for R5? (Richard? are you out there? pretty please?) Thanks in advance.
I HOPE THAT YOU ARE IN THE WAY OF THE NOBLE FEDERAL ENFORCERS and are blown away accidently by the governments goons. You would cheer the death to 25 childern? This is the sort of person who served as a death camp guard.
Yup. By the way, what planet are you from, and once you got here, did you encounter those prejudices against foreign medical graduates?
I repair a lot of monitors here, and I'd like to know where I can get a pattern generator (or a circuit for one) that will provide MDA, EGA and VGA signals. Using a whole PC to do this takes up too much space on my bench, and is somewhat less than portable. I guess I could sit down and design something, but I don't have the time right now - any (reasonable) suggestions would be appreciated. TNX TG
No, he does not. Arafat explicitly *denies* this claim. from a Libyan televison interview with Yasser Arafat 7-19-1991 Q: Some people say that the Palestinian revolution has many times changed its strategies and tactics, something which has left its imprint on the Palestinian problem and on the Palestinian Liberation Front. The [strategies and tactics] have not been clear. The question is, is the direction of the Palestinian problem clear? The Palestinian leadership has stopped, or at least this is what has been said in the media, this happened on the way to the dialogue with the United States, the PLO recognized something called "Israel"... A: No, no, no! We do not recognize the State of Israel. We said "recognition" -- when a Palestinian state is established. It will then decide if to recognize Israel or not. When it is established, its parliament will convene and decide. And replace them with what? If Israel is to withdraw its control of any territory, there must be two prerequsites. One is that it leads to a reduction in deaths. The second is that it should not weaken Israels bargianing position with respect to peace talks. Leaving Gaza unilateraly is a bad idea because it encourages arabs to think they can get what they want by killing Jews. The only way Israel should pull out of Gaza is at the end of negotiations. These negotiations should lead to a mutually agreeable solution with security guarantees for both sides. Until arabs are ready to sit down at the table and talk again, they should not expect, or recieve more concessions. Adam Adam Shostack adam@das.harvard.edu
I'd bet the price of the helmet that it's okay...From 6 feet or higher, maybe not. I'd wear the full facer, but then, I'd be *way* more worried about wind blast in the face, and inability to hear police sirens, than the helmet being a little damaged. Well, my next helmet will be, subject to it fitting well, an AGV sukhoi. That's just because I like the looks. My current one is a Shoei task5, and it's getting a little old, and I crashed in it once a couple of years ago (no hard impact to head...My hip took care of that.). If price was a consideration I'd get a Kiwi k21, I hear they are both good and cheap. Be *mildly* mildly paranoid about the helmet, but don't get carried away. There are people on the net (like those 2% you mentioned) that do not consistently live on our planet... Regards, Charles DoD0.001 RZ350
Hi: I went to the orthopedist on Tuesday. He diagnosed me as having "intersection syndrome". He prescribed Feldene for me. I want to know more about the disease and the drug. Thanks
Archive-name: space/mnemonics Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:14 $ ASTRONOMICAL MNEMONICS (This is the last FAQ section posted to sci.astro) Gathered from various flurries of mnemonic postings on sci.astro. Spectral classification sequence: O B A F G K M R N S Oh Be A Fine Girl Kiss Me Right Now, Sweetheart. (a classic) O'Dell's Big Astronomical Fiasco Gonna Kill Me Right Now Surely Obese Balding Astronomy Found Guilty; Killed Many Reluctant Nonscience Students. Octopus Brains, A Favorite Gastronomical Kitchen Menu, Requires No Sauce Odd Ball Astronomers Find Generally Kooky Mnemonics Really Nifty Stuff Oh Big And Ferocious Gorilla, Kill My Roomate Next Saturday Oh Boy, A Flash! Godzilla Kills Mothra! Really Not Surprising! Oh Boy, An F Grade Kills Me On Bad Afternoons Fermented Grapes Keep Mrs. Richard Nixon Smiling On, Backward Astronomer, Forget Geocentricity; Kepler's Motions Reveal Nature's Simplicity Our Bad Astronomy Faculty Gets Killed Monday Oven Baked Ants, Fried Gently, Kept Moist, Retain Natural Succulence Overseas Broadcast: A Flash! Godzilla kills Mothra! (Rodan Named Successor) Overweight Boys and Fat Girls Keep Munching Only Bored Astronomers Find Gratification Knowing Mnemonics Oh Bloody Astronomy! F Grades Kill Me Order of the planets: Sun Mercury Venus Earth (Terra) Mars (Asteroids) Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto My Very Earnest Mother Just Served Us Nine Pizzas Mother Very Thoughtfully Made A Jelly Sandwich Under No Protest My Very Erotic Mate Joyfully Satisfies Unusual Needs Passionately Men Very Easily Make Jugs Serve Useful Nocturnal Purposes Man Very Early Made A Jug Serve Useful Noble Purposes My Very Educated Mother Just Showed Us Nine Planets My Very Eager Mother Just Showed Us Nine Planets My Very Exhausted Mother hAs Just Swept Up a Planetary Nebula Most Voters Earn Money Just Showing Up Near Polls My Very Educated Mother Just Served Us Nine Pizza-pies Many Viscious Elephants Made John, Suzy and Uncle Need Protection Solar Mass Very Easily Makes All Jupiter's Satellites Undergo Numerous Perturbations. Mein Vater erklaert mir jeden Sonntag unsere niedlichen Planeten (My Father explains to me every Sunday our nine planets) Man verachte einen Menschen in seinem Unglueck nie -- Punkt (Never scorn/despise a person in his misfortune/bad luck/misery -- period!) Colors of the spectrum: Red Orange Yellow Green Blue Indigo Violet ROY G. BIV (pronounce as a man's name) Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain Read Out Your Good Book In Verse Galilean Satellite of Jupiter: Io Europa Ganymede Callisto I Expect God Cries I Eat Green Cheese I Embarrass Good Christians Ich erschrecke all guten Christen (I scare all good Christians) Saturnian Satellites MET DR THIP Miriam's Enchiladas Taste Divine Recently. Tell Her I'm Proud. (Mimas, Enceladus, Tethys, Dione, Rhea, Titan, Hyperion, Iapetus, Phoebe) Uranian Satellites: MAUTO Mispronunciations Afflict Uranus Too Often My Angel Uriel Takes Opium (Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, Oberon) NOTE: the remaining FAQ sections do not appear in sci.astro, as they cover material of relevance only to sci.space.
I have noticed in FrameMaker 3.1X on both the SGI and SUN platforms that certain dialogs, such as "Column Layout..." for example, respond to keyboard traversal even though the pointer is NOT in the dialog window and even though the window manager keyboard focus policy is POINTER. How is this done? I would like to emulate this behavior in my application. It seems a reasonable behavior since when a dialog is popped up from a keyboard action, the dialog is not guaranteed to be under the pointer and the user should not have to reach for the mouse just to move the focus. Alternatively, I'm open to any suggestions as to what is the "right" way to insure that popups get the focus when they appear, particularly when they are invoked from the keyboard and one's keyboard focus policy is pointer.
No brains and he can't spell either. .edu?? I hope you're not a student at Duke... you would be wasting your tuition.
Good question; I don't know what the law considers them. I believe this is what happens in some states.
I heard over NPR yesterday morning that Arlan Specter, Senator from Pennsylvania, has already called for a Congressional investigation. The problem is that Specter was one of the key government attorneys several years ago who did what he could to coverup facts in the assassinations of JFK and others. That is to say, the Chief Fox wants to check out the hen house. Writing your representatives is a great idea. When you do ask that they keep Specter and his cronies far away from any investigation.
Hmmmm.....I wondered where that hubcap went.
So? Kratz was there - does that mean that he's a gang member? Even in the most gang-infested areas, most of the residents ARE NOT gang-members. How was it obvious? Were they not trying to hit the target? Or, does Kratz confuse "marksmanship" with "trying to simulate a post"? If so, that excludes self-defense shooting, but the rest of us understand that that exclusion would be an error. (It excludes a lot of legit "gun games" as well.) Sounds like practical pistol or maybe IPSC. It also sounds like how a self-defense shooter might well practice. The only things that action excludes are hunting and "like a post" shooting. Kratz should get out more often. -andy
: From: OPDBS@vm.cc.latech.edu : Subject: Taurus/Sable rotor recall : My '92 Taurus GL with only 26k on the clock also has rotor warp. : Apparently they HAVEN'T fixed the problem yet. But try convincing the Ford : service person to fix it for free...Right!!! : Tony Gads, I have heard so many horror stories with Taurus and Sable cars! I thought these were premium American automobiles. The way they sell, you'd think so. Is Ford really no better than in the late '70s when it was turning out tin cans like the Granada and the Fairmount? Which would you get, a Taurus or a Camry or Accord?
In the past, I have used named pipes to communicate between processes using the XtAddInput function to set up the event handling in Motif. Does anybody know of a way to do this with message passing ( IPC ) ? I tried it here and no luck so far.
From the "JPL Universe" April 23, 1993 SIRTF is still very much in business
Hello world, I want to write my Xt-application code like this: { do_some_work(); /* now I need some user input */ XmCreateDialog(); wait_for_user_input(input); if (input == "OK") { more_work(); } else { other_work(); } } So "more_work() and other_work()" are not in callback functions but the application simply waits for the user to answer the question. How can I code this in my Xt/Motif-application? Thanks very much in advance. Greetings, Huub.
For Sale: Fitted car cover specifically for '91',92,'93 MR-2. Top of the line Evolution-3 [TM] fabric. Used for less than 6 months. The cover is in excellent condition-no rips, cuts, stains or other blemishes. It has grommets for a locking cable. The color is silver. Price: $90 f.o.b. will ship collect please contact wchutt@monsanto.com or phone at
Dorin, of all the criticism of my post expressed on t.p.m., this one I accept. I regret that aspect of my post. It is my hope that the occupation will end (and the accompanying loss of life) but I believe that stiff resistance can help to achieve that end. Despite what some have said on t.p.m., I think that there is a point when losses are unacceptable. The strategy drove U.S. troops out of Lebanon, at least.
Pardon me? "Greece Government Rail-Roads Two Turkish Ethnic Deputies" While World Human Rights Organizations Scream, Greeks Persistently Work on Removing the Parliamentary Immunity of Dr. Sadik Ahmet and Mr. Ahmet Faikoglu. Dr. Sadik Ahmet, Turkish Ethnic Member of Greek Parliament, Visits US Washington DC, July 7- Doctor Sadik Ahmet, one of the two ethnic Turkish members of the Greek parliament visited US on june 24 through July 5th and held meetings with human rights organizations and high-level US officials in Washington DC and New York. At his press conference at the National Press Club in Washington DC, Sadik Ahmet explained the plight of ethnic Turks in Greece and stated six demands from Greek government. Ahmet said "our only hope in Greece is the pressure generated from Western capitals for insisting that Greece respects the human rights. What we are having done to ethnic Turks in Greece is exactly the same as South African Apartheid." He added: "What we are facing is pure Greek hatred and racial discrimination." Spelling out the demands of the Turkish ethnic community in Greece he said "We want the restoration of Greek citizenship of 544 ethnic Turks. Their citizenship was revoked by using the excuse that this people have stayed out of Greece for too long. They are Greek citizens and are residing in Greece, even one of them is actively serving in the Greek army. Besides, other non-Turkish citizens of Greece are not subject to this kind of interpretation at an extent that many of Greek-Americans have Greek citizenship and they permanently live in the United States." "We want guarantee for Turkish minority's equal rights. We want Greek government to accept the Turkish minority and grant us our civil rights. Our people are waiting since 25 years to get driving licenses. The Greek government is not granting building permits to Turks for renovating our buildings or building new ones. If your name is Turkish, you are not hired to the government offices." "Furthermore, we want Greek government to give us equal opportunity in business. They do not grant licenses so we can participate in the economic life of Greece. In my case, they denied me a medical license necessary for practicing surgery in Greek hospitals despite the fact that I have finished a Greek medical school and followed all the necessary steps in my career." "We want freedom of expression for ethnic Turks. We are not allowed to call ourselves Turks. I myself have been subject of a number of law suits and even have been imprisoned just because I called myself a Turk." "We also want Greek government to provide freedom of religion." In separate interview with The Turkish Times, Dr. Sadik Ahmet stated that the conditions of ethnic Turks are deplorable and in the eyes of Greek laws, ethnic Greeks are more equal than ethnic Turks. As an example, he said there are about 20,000 telephone subscribers in Selanik (Thessaloniki) and only about 800 of them are Turks. That is not because Turks do not want to have telephone services at their home and businesses. He said that Greek government changed the election law just to keep him out of the parliament as an independent representative and they stated this fact openly to him. While there is no minimum qualification requirement for parties in terms of receiving at least 3% of the votes, they imposed this requirement for the independent parties, including the Turkish candidates. Ahmet was born in a small village at Gumulcine (Komotini), Greece 1947. He earned his medical degree at University of Thessaloniki in 1974. he served in the Greek military as an infantryman. In 1985 he got involved with community affairs for the first time by collecting 15,000 signatures to protest the unjust implementation of laws against ethnic Turks. In 1986, he was arrested by the police for collecting signatures. Serdar Argic
And one of my profs is the chief engineer for the project (Dr. Ron Humble, Univ. Colorado at Colorado Springs). I love the idea of an inflatable 1-mile long sign.... It will be a really neat thing to see it explode when a bolt (or even better, a Westford Needle!) comes crashing into it at 10 clicks a sec. <BOOM!> Whooooooooshhhhhh...... <sputter, sputter> <okay, PRETEND it would make a sound!> I hear <insert favorite rumor here> that it will supposedly coincide with the Atlanta Olympics.
Some of your article was cut off on the right margin, but I will try and answer from what I can read. Judaism did not father Islam. We had many of the same prophets, but Judaism ignores prophets later prophets including Jesus Christ (who Christians and Muslims believe in) and Mohammed. The idea of believing in one God should unite all peoples. However, note that Christianity and Islam reflect the fact that there are people with different views and the rights of non-Christians and non-Muslims are stated in each religion. We are supposed to pay 6% of our income after all necessities are paid. Please note that this 6% is on a personal basis - if you are poor, there is no need to pay (quite the contrary, this money most often goes to the poor in each in country and to the poor Muslims around the world). Also, this money is not required in the human sense (i.e. a Muslim never knocks at your door to ask for money and nobody makes a list at the mosque to make sure you have paid (and we surely don't pass money baskets around during our prayer services)). God's presence is certainly on Earth, but since God is everywhere, God may show signs of existence in other places as well. We can not say for sure where God has shown signs of his existence and where he has not/. The Qur'an is not a copyright of the Taurah. Muslims believe that the Taurah, the Bible, and the Qur'an originally contained much the same message, thus the many similiarities. However, the Taurah and the Bible have been 'translated' into other languages which has changed their meaning over time (a translation also reflects some of the personal views of the translator(s). The Qur'an still exists in the same language that it was revealed in - Arabic. Therefore, we know that mankind has not changed its meaning. It is truly what was revealed to Mohammed at that time. There are many scientific facts which were not discovered by traditional scientific methods until much later such as the development of the baby in the mother's womb. Only God knows for sure how it will turn out. I hope it won't, but if that happens, it was the will of God. Please send this mail to me again so I can read the rest of what you said. And yes, may God help us all.
The COSE announcement specifies that Motif will become the common GUI. But what does this mean exactly? - Do they mean that all "COSE-complient" apps will have the Motif look and feel? - Do they mean that all "COSE-complient" apps will use the Motif toolkit API? - Do they mean both of the above? - Is it possible that there will be a Motif-API complient toolkit with an OpenLook Look & Feel? - How about an OLIT/XView/OI/Interviews API toolkit with a Motif L & F? (I know OI already does this, but will this be considered COSE-complient?) - Will there be more than one "standard" toolkit API or L & F supported? - How does using ToolTalk fit in with Motif? This is my attempt to start a discussion in order to pull as much knowledge about these questions off the net... Feel free to e-mail or followup. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -- Gil Tene "Some days it just doesn't pay - -- devil@imp.HellNet.org to go to sleep in the morning." - -- devil@diablery.10A.com -
********* 1990 Integra LS for Sale ********* 5 speed, sunroof, rear spoiler, new tires 59.7K miles $ 7950 or best offer. call 908-949-0878 908-938-4101 email att!hotsoup!peng
---------- Yeah, it might, if you only read the part you quoted. You somehow left out the part about "we all ate the same thing." Changes things a bit, eh? You complain that people blame MSG automatically, since it's an unknown and therefore must be the cause. It is equally (if not more) unreasonable to defend it, automatically assuming that it CAN'T be the culprit. Pepper makes me sneeze. If it doesn't affect you the same way, fine. Just don't tell me I'm wrong for saying so.
Did the Russian spacecraft(s) on the ill-fated Phobos mission a few years ago send back any images of the Martian moon? If so, does anyone know if they're housed at an ftp site? Thanks.
I don't sign any blank checks. When Doug Foxvog says "weapons of mass destruction," he means CBW and nukes. When Sarah Brady says "weapons of mass destruction" she means Street Sweeper shotguns and semi-automatic SKS rifles. When John Lawrence Rutledge says "weapons of mass destruction," and then immediately follows it with: ...what does Rutledge mean by the term? --
In my area, Denver, if you look around alittle you can get an 1984 for 10,000 or less, not much less. You said your not looking to go fast, they are a really nice car just not real powerful.>
try sci.energy
[...] [...] [...] Try something like 24.2 feet. EdGetACalculator ----- Tommy McGuire mcguire@cs.utexas.edu mcguire@austin.ibm.com
The most current orbital elements from the NORAD two-line element sets are carried on the Celestial BBS, (513) 427-0674, and are updated daily (when possible). Documentation and tracking software are also available on this system. As a service to the satellite user community, the most current elements for the current shuttle mission are provided below. The Celestial BBS may be accessed 24 hours/day at 300, 1200, 2400, 4800, or 9600 bps using 8 data bits, 1 stop bit, no parity. Element sets (also updated daily), shuttle elements, and some documentation and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive.afit.af.mil (129.92.1.66) in the directory pub/space. STS 56 1 22621U 93 23 A 93105.06179397 .00044513 00000-0 12649-3 0 230 2 22621 57.0022 147.2850 0004246 288.7332 38.0941 15.92991629 1084 1993 023B 1 22623U 93 23 B 93103.37312705 .00041032 00000-0 11888-3 0 86 2 22623 57.0000 155.1150 0004422 293.4650 66.5967 15.92653917 803
I can't tell if Matt is being sarcastic here or not, but to be honest, many automobiles are worth far more to their owners (in $$ value and $$ investment) than the people that would take them. I don't have figures on average property tax in the U.S. or how much of it is allocated for housing projects, inferior public schools, jails, or the like, but I have a feeling that the amount the government steals from an honest, productive citizen to breed this trash is significantly less than the value of many automobiles. And for those who will argue that the animals out there stealing cars and everything else (not to mention committing COMPLETELY senseless acts of violence, such as rape) cannot be valued in terms of money because they are human beings, I submit that they are not human beings. Jim Callison, I think, is on the right track. And Chintan Amin remarked earlier that we cannot blame environment for the actions of a single criminal. I couldn't agree more. One could trace any crime back to the environment/upbringing of the criminal; should we let all of them out, from pickpockets to rapists to inside traders, because what they did wasn't their fault? Where does one draw the line? $0.02
Even if they outlawed private posession of firearms, there would be no moral force behind that law; I imagine compliance would be low.
I love the FAQ. The comment about contact lenses not being an option for any remaining correction after RK and possibly after PRK is interresting. Why is this? Does anyone know for sure whether this applies to PRK as well? Also, why is it possible to get a correction in PRK with involvement of only about 5% of the corneal depth, while RK is done to a depth of up to 95%? Why such a difference? I thought the proceedures were simmilar with the exception of a laser being the cutting tool in PRK. I must not be understanding all of the differences. In the FAQ, the vision was considered less clear after the surgery than with glasses alone. If this is completly attributable to the intentional slight undercorrection, then it can be compensated for when necessary with glasses (or contacts, if they CAN be worn afterall!). It is important to know if that is not the case, however, and some other consequence of the surgery would often interfere with clear vision. The first thing that came to my mind was a fogging of the lense, which glasses couldn't help. would not help.
I think that's the correct spelling.. I am looking for any information/supplies that will allow do-it-yourselfers to take Krillean Pictures. I'm thinking that education suppliers for schools might have a appartus for sale, but I don't know any of the companies. Any info is greatly appreciated. In case you don't know, Krillean Photography, to the best of my knowledge, involves taking pictures of an (most of the time) organic object between charged plates. The picture will show energy patterns or spikes around the object photographed, and depending on what type of object it is, the spikes or energy patterns will vary. One might extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within the universe (as we know it) has its own energy signature.
CHECK MENAHEM BEGIN DAIRIES (published book) you'll find accounts of the massacres there including Deir Yassen, though with the numbers of massacred men, children and women are greatly minimized. As per request of Hasan: From _The Revolt_, by Menachem Begin, Dell Publishing, NY, 1977: [pp. 225-227] "Apart from the military aspect, there is a moral aspect to the story of Dir Yassin. At that village, whose name was publicized throughout the world, both sides suffered heavy casualties. We had four killed and nearly forty wounded. The number of casualties was nearly forty percent of the total number of the attackers. The Arab troops suffered casualties neraly three times as heavy. The fighting was thus very severe. Yet the hostile propaganda, disseminated throughout the world, deliberately ignored the fact that the civilian population of Dir Yassin was actually given a warning by us before the battle began. One of our tenders carrying a loud speaker was stationed at the entrance to the village and it exhorted in Arabic all women, children and aged to leave their houses and to take shelter on the slopes of the hill. By giving this humane warning our fighters threw away the element of complete surprise, and thus increased their own risk in the ensuing battle. A substantial number of the inhabitants obeyed the warning and they were unhurt. A few did not leave their stone houses - perhaps because of the confusion. The fire of the enemy was murderous - to which the number of our casualties bears eloquent testimony. Our men were compelled to fight for every house; to overcome the enemy they used large numbers of hand grenades. And the civilians who had disregarded our warnings suffered inevitable casualties. "The education which we gave our soldiers throughout the years of revolt was based on the observance of the traditional laws of war. We never broke them unless the enemy first did so and thus forced us, in accordance with the accepted custom of war, to apply reprisals. I am convinced, too, that our officers and men wished to avoid a single unnecessary casualty in the Dir Yassin battle. But those who throw stones of denunciation at the conquerors of Dir Yassin [1] would do well not to don the cloak of hypocrisy [2]. "In connection with the capture of Dir Yassin the Jewish Agency found it necessary to send a letter of apology to Abdullah, whom Mr. Ben Gurion, at a moment of great political emotion, called 'the wise ruler who seeks the good of his people and this country.' The 'wise ruler,' whose mercenary forces demolished Gush Etzion and flung the bodies of its heroic defenders to birds of prey, replied with feudal superciliousness. He rejected the apology and replied that the Jews were all to blame and that he did not believe in the existence of 'dissidents.' Throughout the Arab world and the world at large a wave of lying propaganda was let loose about 'Jewish attrocities.' "The enemy propaganda was designed to besmirch our name. In the result it helped us. Panic overwhelmed the Arabs of Eretz Israel. Kolonia village, which had previously repulsed every attack of the Haganah, was evacuated overnight and fell without further fighting. Beit-Iksa was also evacuated. These two places overlooked the main road; and their fall, together with the capture of Kastel by the Haganah, made it possible to keep open the road to Jerusalem. In the rest of the country, too, the Arabs began to flee in terror, even before they clashed with Jewish forces. Not what happened at Dir Yassin, but what was invented about Dir Yassin, helped to carve the way to our decisive victories on the battlefield. The legend of Dir Yassin helped us in particular in the saving of Tiberias and the conquest of Haifa." [1] (A footnote from _The Revolt_, pp.226-7.) "To counteract the loss of Dir yassin, a village of strategic importance, Arab headquarters at Ramallah broadcast a crude atrocity story, alleging a massacre by Irgun troops of women and children in the village. Certain Jewish officials, fearing the Irgun men as political rivals, seized upon this Arab gruel propaganda to smear the Irgun. An eminent Rabbi was induced to reprimand the Irgun before he had time to sift the truth. Out of evil, however, good came. This Arab propaganda spread a legend of terror amongst Arabs and Arab troops, who were seized with panic at the mention of Irgun soldiers. The legend was worth half a dozen battalions to the forces of Israel. The `Dir Yassin Massacre' lie is still propagated by Jew-haters all over the world."
For the purpose of a contest, I'd bet some things could be cut. Like fuel for re-entry, any kind of heat shielding, etc., etc. Even still, if the contest participants had to fund DC-1 development, it probably wouldn't be worth it to develop DC-1 (just for the contest). Just give me the cheapest heaviest lift man rated (or at least under 6 or so Gs) booster... If I don't have to pay for DC-1 development, great!, I'll use it. But back to the contest goals, there was a recent article in AW&ST about a low cost (it's all relative...) manned return to the moon. A General Dynamics scheme involving a Titan IV & Shuttle to lift a Centaur upper stage, LEV, and crew capsule. The mission consists of delivering two unmanned payloads to the lunar surface, followed by a manned mission. Total cost: US was $10-$13 billion. Joint ESA(?)/NASA project was $6-$9 billion for the US share. I didn't find a mention of how long the crew could stay, but I'd bet that its around 30 days. And the total payload delivered was about 30 metric tonnes. So if you ignore the scientific payload, hitch a ride in the crew habitation module (no return trip...), and toss in a few more tonnes for the additional consumables to last another 11 months, then you *might* be able to get a year visit out of 15 tonnes (and in case its not obvious, that's a wild ass guess). A pretty boring visit, since every trip outdoors eats up a bit of LOX. And I'm not certain if a home brewed (or college-brewed) life support system could last a year. But let's round this up to 19.4 tonnes (convient, since the GD plan talks about 9.7 ton payloads delivered to the lunar surface. This adds up to two Centaurs, two LEVs, two Shuttle flights... All to put a single man on the moon for a year. Hmmm. Not really practical. Anyone got a cheaper/better way of delivering 15-20 tonnes to the lunar surface within the decade? Anyone have a more precise guess about how much a year's supply of consumables and equipment would weigh? And I was wondering about the GD LEV. Is it reusable? Or is it discarded to burn up on return to LEO? If its not discarded, could it be refueled? Henry: Do you know anything about the GD LEV? I noted that it uses RL-10 engines. Aren't they reusable/restartable? Would a LEV fit in a DC-1? I've forgotten (if I ever knew) what the cargo bay dimensions are for the DC-1. All in all, I'm not certain that the single goal/prize of staying on the moon for a year is wise and/or useful. How about: A prize for the first non-government sponsered unmanned moon landing, then another for a manned moon landing, then yet another for a system to extract consumables from lunar soil, another for a reusable earth/moon shuttle, and so forth. Find some way to build civilian moonbase infrastructure... Having a single goal might result in a bunch of contestents giving up after one person appeared to win. And for those that didn't give up, I find something a little scary about a half dozen people huddling in rickety little moon shelters. I'd like to see as much a reward for co-operation as for competition. Lastly, about ten or fifteen years back I seem to recall that there was an English space magazine that had an on-going discussion about moonbases on the cheap. I recalled it discussed things like how much heat the human body produced, how much lunar material it'd need for protection from solar flares, etc. Unfortunately I don't remember the name of this magazine. Does this ring a bell to anyone?
No, it isn't. It is the "X Window System", or "X11", or "X" or any of a number of other designations accepted by the X Consortium. In fact, doing "man X" on pretty much any X11 machine will tell you: The X Consortium requests that the following names be used when referring to this software: X X Window System X Version 11 X Window System, Version 11 X11 There is no such thing as "X Windows" or "X Window", despite the repeated misuse of the forms by the trade rags. This probably tells you something about how much to trust the trade rags -- if they can't even get the NAME of the window system right, why should one trust anything else they have to say? With regard to dialup X11 implementations, there are several. You can buy serial X11 terminals from a couple of companies, including both GraphOn and NCD. (In fact, I'm composing this from an NCD running X11 over serial lines across 14.4 kbaud connection.) NCD also sells a software-only package that provides XRemote (which is NCD's implementation of serial X11) for PC's. There may be other such software packages available. X11R6 is supposed to include a standardized compression scheme for running X11 over low-speed connections. It's called Low Bandwidth X (LBX), and is based on improved versions of the techniques used in NCD's XRemote. It seems likely that once LBX is released as a Consortium standard, there will be several vendors willing to supply implementations for various sorts of hardware. Followups directed to comp.windows.x
mjs>Secondly, it is the adhesion of the mjs>tyre on the road, the suspension geometry and the ground clearance of the mjs> motorcycle which dictate how quickly you can swerve to avoid obstacles, and mjs>not the knowledge of physics between the rider's ears. Are you seriously ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ mjs>suggesting that countersteering knowledge enables you to corner faster mjs>or more competentlY than you could manage otherwise?? ed>If he's not, I will. Hey Ed, you didn't give me the chance! Sheesh! The answer is, absolutely!, as Ed so eloquently describes: ed>Put two riders on identical machines. It's the ed>one who knows what he's doing, and why, that will be faster. It *may* ed>be possible to improve your technique if you have no idea what it is, ed>through trial and error, but it is not very effective methodology. ed>Only by understanding the technique of steering a motorcycle can one ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ed>improve on that technique (I hold that this applies to any human ed>endeavor). Herein lies the key to this thread: Kindly note the difference in the responses. Ed (and I) are talking about knowing riding technique, while Mike is arguing knowing the physics behind it. It *is* possible to be taught the technique of countersteering (ie: push the bar on the inside of the turn to go that way) *without* having to learn all the fizziks about gyroscopes and ice cream cones and such as seen in the parallel thread. That stuff is mainly of interest to techno-motorcycle geeks like the readers of rec.motorcycles ;^), but doesn't need to be taught to the average student learning c-steering. Mike doesn't seem to be able to make the distinction. I know people who can carve circles around me who couldn't tell you who Newton was. On the other hand, I know very intelligent, well-educated people who think that you steer a motorcycle by either: 1) leaning, 2) steering a la bicycles, or 3) a combination of 1 and 2. Knowledge of physics doesn't get you squat - knowledge of technique does!
It was a test of the first reusable tool. Pointy so they can find them or so they will stick into their pants better, and be closer to their brains?
A(> From: adwright@iastate.edu () A(> A woman I know is tapering off klonopin. I believe that is one of the A(> benzodiazopines. She is taking a very minimal dose right now, half a tablet A(> a day. She is also pregnant. My question is Are there any known cases where A(> klonopin or similar drug has caused harmful effects to the fetus? A(> How about cases where the mother took klonopin or similar substance and had A(> normal baby. Any information is appreciated. She wants to get a feel for A(> what sort of risk she is taking. She is in her first month of pregnancy. Klonopin, according to the PDR (Physician's Desk Reference), is not a proven teratogen. There are isolated case reports of malformations, but it is impossible to establish cause-effect relationships. The overwhelming majority of women that take Klonopin while pregnant have normal babies.
[reply to geb@cs.pitt.edu (Gordon Banks)] I think a case could be made that this is discriminatory, particularly if an applicant had good board scores and recommendations but wasn't offered an interview, but I don't know if it has ever gone to court.
Ok, here goes. Yes folks, I realize I have stuck my foot in my mouth quite a few times already so please let me make some clarifications. My inaccurate information in my posts was due to lack of knowledge. Thanks to you kind (and some not so kind) people I am learning. Some people have given me several good points to ponder and I see how I was wrong. In no way was this inaccurate information supposed to be trying to further the anti-gun cause. I have said several times before (but nobody seemed to be listening) that I am pro-gun and anti-gun-control. As far as the race can of worms that I have opened up I have only one thing to say - I am in no way prejudiced. Some of the things I have stated were said to demonstrate that I am not prejudiced and/or a racist but I have been accused of being too aware of race and prejudiced. I will not say anymore about that subject because no matter what I say it will be the wrong thing. Boy, what a start to being on a new group. Oh well, things have been worse in my life. I hope this clears things up but I guess that will remain to be seen. By for now,
I beleive this was the source of the Kennedy clan's money. Jim -- jmd@handheld.com
How do you define war? Do seiges and constant attacks on villiages count as acts of war, or is that only when the Jews do them? January, 1948: Arab Liberation Army attacks Kfar Szold 1000 men attack Kfar Etzion, 14 miles south of Jerusalem, after cutting off the supply lines to it. Attacks on Yehiam (Western Galilee) and kibbutz Tirat Tzvi. By Mid-March, The Jewish settlements in the Negev had been cut off from land links with the rest of the Jewish population. The Etzion group of villiages, near Hebron, had been cut off, while 42 members of a convoy trying to supply Yehiam were slaughtered, cutting off the villiage. Jerusalem was under seige, being cut off from its supply route from Tel Aviv (the bombed out supply trucks have been left on the side of that road to this day in memoriam). By this time, 1200 Jews had been killed. Of course, this isn't war, since it's only the Arabs attacking. Just like last week when the Fatah launched Katyusha rockets against Northern israel. Where does uprising end and war begin? Will it still be 'Intifadah' when the PLO brings in tanks?
YESSS! You make me proud to be an 'Merkun. Good thing you didn't get shot though. Don't try that with a good'ole boy in Texas. I once had a jeep driver south of Conroe cut me off (I was in my car) after I had flipped him off for doing something really idiotic and senseless. All 280 lbs of him stretches out of his jeep; he walks back (he is blocking all traffic between Dallas and Houston since the freeway has been squeezed into a single lane) and says to me, "Stick that finger out again and I'll rip it off your hand and shove it down your sorry-ass throat." I stared straight ahead, unblinking. A hundred cars were honking. Eventually he got back into his jeep, face beet-red with anger, and all the rest of the way back to Houston I tailed him, waving, honking, flipping him off, yelling... I'm glad he decided not to shoot me. /-----b-o-d-y---i-s---t-h-e---b-i-k-e----------------------------\ \-----------------------s-o-u-l---i-s---t-h-e---r-i-d-e-r--------/
Hi from Australia, I am a car enthusiast in Australia. I am particularly interested in American Muscle cars of the 1960s and 1970s. ALL MAKES: AMC, Ford, Chrysler/Mopar, GM. I will be in the USA for 6 weeks from May 2nd to -June 14 1993. Chicago: Sun May 2 -Thursday May 6 Denver: Friday May 7 - Sunday May 9 Austin, Texas: Monday May 10- Friday May 21 Oklahoma City: Friday May 21 - Monday May 24 Anaheim, California: Tuesday May 25-Thursday May 27 Las Vegas, Nevada: Friday May 28- Sunday May 30 Grand Canion, Monday May 31 - Tuesday June 1 Las Angeles, San Diego and vicinity: Wednesday June 3-Sunday June 6 June South Lake Tahoe, Cal: Sunday June 6 - Wednesday June 9 Reno: Thursday June 10 San Fransisco: Thursday June 10 - Sunday June 13 I was wondering if anyone could send me any information of car shows, swap meets, drag meets, model car shows etc. during this period. Can anybody tell me when the Pomona Swap meet is on this year? Also, any places to visit (eg. car museums, private collections, your collection? etc. Any bit of information is appreciated! I am also interested in finding some model cars (scale Models). I am intersted in 1968-1974 AMC cars. Of particular interest is: 1968-1970 AMX 1968-1974 Javelin 1969 SCRAMBLER 1970 Rebel Machine and others If you have any kits, plastics, diecast etc and are interested in selling them, tell me, I will be interested. I can also send/bring you models of Australian High performance cars if you are interested. Please reply by email to: johnt@spri.levels.unisa.edu.au Thanks,
Fred. Try reading a bit. THe government does lots of multi year contracts with Penalty for cancellation clauses. They just like to be damn sure they know what they are doing before they sign a multi year contract. THe reason they aren't cutting defense spending as much as they would like is the Reagan administration signed enough Multi year contracts, that it's now cheaper to just finish them out. Look at SSF. THis years funding is 2.2 Billion, 1.8 of which will cover penalty clauses, due to the re-design.
If these folks are who I think they are, Lyme-knowledgeable may mean a physician to whom everything that walks in the door is lyme disease, and you will be treated for lyme, whether or not you have it. Hope you have good insurance. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Are you saying that the Indians who became Christians did so because the US Army marched them into church at gunpoint? This will be news to the Indians of the Great Lakes and upper Mississippi basin-- of the Southwest-- of Mexico and South America-- who converted even before there was such a thing as the US. Are you saying that Indians are incapable of coming to a decision themselves about their religion without being forced to at gunpoint? What about the Christian Cherokees who were given the boot by the US government after the Civil War... because the Cherokee nation gave mild support to the Confederacy, since they themselves owned black slaves. No, reducing it all to a matter of religion is to support a much too narrow view of history.
I don't understand the fascination with vent windows. They create a tremendous turbulence and noise that makes even a simple connversation impossible at speeds above 40mph. The current flow-throuh ventilation, if designed right, are far more superior.
JB> JB> Ron Roth recommends: "Once you have your hypoglycemia CONFIRMED through the JB> proper channels, you might consider the following:..." JB> [diet omitted] JB> JB> 1) Ron...what do YOU consider to be "proper channels"...this sounds suspiciously I'm glad it caught your eye. That's the purpose of this forum to educate those, eager to learn, about the facts of life. That phrase is used to bridle the frenzy of all the would-be respondents, who otherwise would feel being left out as the proper authorities to be consulted on that topic. In short, it means absolutely nothing. JB> like a blood chemistry...glucose tolerance and the like...suddenly chemistry JB> exists? You know perfectly well that this person can be saved needless trouble JB> and expense with simple muscle testing and hair analysis to diagnose...no JB> "CONFIRM" any aberrant physiology...but then again...maybe that's what you mean" Muscle testing and hair analysis, eh? So what other fascinating space-age medical techniques do you use? Do you sit under a pyramid over night as well to shrink your brain back to normal after a mind- expanding day at your 'Save the Earth' clinic? JB> 2) Were you able to understand Dick King's post that "90% of diseases is not thy JB> evaluate the statistic you cited from the New England Journal of Medicine. Coul? Once I figure out what *you* are trying to say, I'll still have to wrestle with the possibility of you conceivably not being able to understand my answer to your question?! JB> 3) Ron...have you ever thought about why you never post in misc.health.alterna- JB> tive...and insist instead upon insinuating your untrained, non-medical, often JB> delusional notions of health and disease into this forum? I suspect from your JB> apparent anger toward MDs and heteropathic medicine that there may be an ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ You little psychoanalytical rascal you! Got me all figured out, ja? JB> underlying 'father problem'...of course I can CONFIRM this by surrogate muscle JB> testing one of my patients while they ponder my theory to see if one of their JB> previously weak 'indicator' muscles strengthens...or do you have reservations JB> about my unique methods of diagnosis? [......] JB> JB> John Badanes, DC, CA JB> romdas@uclink.berkeley.edu Oh man, when are you going to start teaching all this stuff? I'll bet everyone on this net must be absolutely dying to learn more about going beyond spinal adjustments and head straight for the mind for some Freudian subluxation. --Ron--
Our panel of judges has deliberated the question, and the answer is: Send the requester one copy, and then gang-FAQ yourself.
]>> ]>>> >napalm, then let the wood stove inside ignite it. ]>>> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ]>>> As someone else has pointed out, why would the stove be in use on a warm day ]>>> in Texas. ]>> ]>>Do YOU eat all your food cold? ]> ]>Ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves? Very popular. ]>Electric stoves outside metro-areas especially. ] ]Ever hear about cutting off the electricity? That was done. ]How effective is an electric stove then? Didn't the Branch Davidans have an emergency generator? Oh well, I don't think Brent thought of that anyway.
The American people didn't have any problem with it too (Clinton). Actually I think that it does not make any difference as long as they have the qualifications to become leaders. BTW in my political view I hope (and should be the Arab hope too) that Binyamin Netanyahu will not be ellected as prime minister of Israel. Naftaly ----
I have written a program and I want to market it. I would like certain degree of protection, since my main custmers are individuals and not the cooperations. I know laser hole burning method, and hardware key method, however, my software is going to cost only $15.00, so I can not afford that. Also, at this low price I can not afford people make too many copy of my software. Well, I guess say upto %20 illigal copying is ok by me. However, I do not want someone to get a copy of PCTools and copy my software. Off course, I never meant to forbid the true hackers from copying, since they can develope a better program anyway. With highest regards, Babak Sehari.
That is an idea.. The most efficient moon habitat.. also the idea of how to get the people off the moon once the prize was won.. Also the idea of how to rescue someone who is "dying" on the moon. Maybe have a area where they can all "see" each other, and can help each other if something happens.. I liek the idea of one prize for the first moon landing and return, by a non-governmental body.. Also the idea of then having a moon habitat race.. I know we need to do somthing to get people involved.. Eccentric millionaire/billionaire would be nice.. We see how old Ross feels about it.. After all it would be a great promotional thing and a way to show he does care about commericalization and the people.. Will try to broach the subject to him.. Moonbase on the cheap is a good idea.. NASA and friends seem to take to much time and give us to expensive stuff that of late does not work (hubble and such). Basically what is the difference between a $1mil peice of junk and a multi $1mil piece of junk.. I know junk..
Subject: Re: Eugenics / ;Probably within 50 years, a new type of eugenics will be possible. ;Maybe even sooner. We are now mapping the human genome. We will ;then start to work on manipulation of that genome. Using genetic ;engineering, we will be able to insert whatever genes we want. ;No breeding, no "hybrids", etc. The ethical question is, should ;we? Two past problems with eugenics have been 1) reducing the gene pool and 2) defining the status of the eugenized. Inserting genes would not seem to reduce the gene pool unless the inserted genes later became transmissible to progeny. Then they may be able to crowd out "garbage genes." This may in the future become possible. Even if it does, awareness of the need to maintain the gene pool would hopefully mean provisions will be made for saving genes that may come in handy later. Evidently the genes for sickle cell disease in equatorial Africa and for diabetes in the Hopi *promoted* survival in some conditions. We don't really know what the future may hold for our environment. The reduced wilderness- and disease-survival capacity of our relatively inbred domesticated animals comes to mind. Vulcanism, nuclear winter, ice age, meteor impact, new microbiological threats, famine, global warming, etc., etc., are all conceivable. Therefore, having as many genes as possible available is a good strategy for species survival. Of course, the status of genetically altered individuals would start out as no different than anyone else's. But if we could make "philosopher-kings" with great bodies and long lives, would we (or they) want to give them elevated status? We could. The Romans did it with their kings *without* the benefits of such eugenics. The race eventually realized and dealt with the problems which that caused, but for a while, it was a problem. Orwell introduced us to the notion of what might happen to persons genetically altered for more menial tasks. But there is nothing new under the sun. We treated slaves the same way for millennia before "1984." I see no inherent problem with gene therapy which avoids at least these 2 problems. Humans have always had trouble having the virtue and wisdom to use any power that falls into their hands to good ends all the time. That hasn't stopped the race as a whole yet. Many are the civilizations which have died from inability to adapt to environmental change. However, also many are the civilizations which have died from the abuse of their own power. The ones which survived have hopefully learned a lesson from the fates of others, and have survived by making better choices when their turns came. Not that I don't think that this gene altering power couldn't wipe us off the face of the earth or cause endless suffering. Nuclear power or global warming or whatever could and may still do that, too. The real issue is an issue of wisdom and virtue. I personally don't think man has enough wisdom and virtue to pull this next challenge off any better than he did the for last few. We, as eugenists, may make it, an we may not. If we don't, I hope there are reservoirs of "garbage" people out in some backwater with otherwise long discarded "garbage" genes which will pull us through. I believe that the real problem is and will probably always be the same. Man needs to accept input from the great spirit of God to overcome his lacks in the area of knowing how to use the power he has. Some men have, and I believe all men may, listen to and obey the still small voice of God in their hearts. This is the way to begin to recieve the wisdom and virtue needed to escape the problems consequent to poor choices. Peoples have died out for many reasons. The societies which failed to accept enough input from God to safely use the power they had developed have destroyed themselves, and often others in the process. It is self-evident that the ones which survive today have either accepted enough input from the Spirit to use their powers wisely enough to avoid or survive their own mistakes thus far, or else haven't had enough power for long enough. In summary, I would say that the question of whether to use this new technology is really an ancient one. And the answer, in some ways hard, in some ways easy, is the same ancient answer. It isn't the power, it is the Spirit. Sorry for the long post. Got carried away.
No, I don't watch that Bu**Sh*t. So, does this mean the cop is at fault for rear-ending the bike? You know, following too closely and reckless driving?
: : |> XSetFunction( myDisplay, gc, GXxor); |> XSetForeground( myDisplay, gc, drawIndex); |> |> Then to draw I do: |> |> XDrawLine( myDisplay, XtWindow( drawingArea1), gc, x1, y1, x2, y2); |> XFlush( myDisplay); |> |> And when I'm all done, to return things to normal I do: |> |> XSetFunction( myDisplay, gc, GXcopy); |> |> |> What I'd like to happen is for the lines I draw to be the inverse of |> whatever I'm drawing over. Instead what happens is I get white lines. If |> the lines are over a white background - nothing shows up. If the lines are |> over a black area - nothing shows up! It's very strange. But the GXxor |> function seems right - since if I do a rubber-banding box, it erases and |> redraws itself correctly (ie. not disturbing the underlying image). |> |> Any suggestions what I'm doing wrong? |> |> david Try change the GXxor to GXequiv. I have to do this for programs that are to run on NCD terminals (on Sun terminals I have to change it back to GXxor)... There is a small section in the O'Reilly Xlib books that describes the right thing to do. The key is to set the plane_mask in the GC to the OR of the foreground and background pixel values.
Try peeling the skin back at the base of your other fingernails (not too hard, now, don't want to hurt yourself). You'll find nice little lunulas there if you can peel it back enough. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Can anyone recomend a good book or article on inter-client communications BESIDES I.C.C.M.? I've looked everywhere I can and it seems everyone tells you how to do it but nobody SHOWS you how. O'Reilly has no examples, ICCM has no examples, Asente & Swick give no examples - in fact most of the books I've looked at, if they discuss ICC at all, simply give a condensed version of the ICCM and then refer you to the ICCM. I did find one example of how to use Atoms and Properties in Young's book and five hours after I bought Young's book I had my applications talking to each other. I am not sure, however, if thats the best way. I'd like to stay independent of Unix so pipes and/or sockets probably aren't the way to go. But within X one can also use messages, the clipboard, and perhaps window groups. I need a text that discusses the various methods, discusses which method is best for which purpose, and gives examples. Without examples it's all just words. Thanks in advance
Or have different classes of competetors.. and made the total purse $6billion or $7billion (depending on how many different classes there are, as in auto racing/motocycle racing and such)..
From article <93111.225707PP3903A@auvm.american.edu>, by Paul H. Pimentel <PP3903A@auvm.american.edu>: There is one big difference between Israel and the Arabs, Christians in this respect. Israel allows freedom of religion.
I'm writing 'xwall', a simple X version of 'wall', and I want it to put a message up on each of a default list of displays. The problem is that XOpenDisplay hangs if one of the displays is currently controlled by xdm (login screen). I've been through the manuals and FAQ and don't see a simple way to see if a display is 'openable' ahead of time, or to get XOpenDisplay to fail after a short period of time. Any hints, suggestions, clues, or pointers to info? Thanks...
* FOR SALE * From Ann Arbor, Michigan 1988 Kawasaki EX-500 6682 miles Cherry Red Excellent condition Asking $2300
Currently, there is a bill before the Texas legislature that would make it legal for some ordinary folks to carry concealed weapons. I don't have the details, sorry. semper fi,
I need as much information about Cosmos 2238 and its rocket fragment (1993- 018B) as possible. Both its purpose, launch date, location, in short, EVERYTHING! Can you help? -Tony Ryan, "Astronomy & Space", new International magazine, available from: Astronomy Ireland, P.O.Box 2888, Dublin 1, Ireland. 6 issues (one year sub.): UK 10.00 pounds, US$20 surface (add US$8 airmail). ACCESS/VISA/MASTERCARD accepted (give number, expiration date, name&address).
>How about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local >agencies to help children, seniors, the homeless? Hear, hear! Thanks, Robbie. You also don't read that much about violence *against* teenagers, such as George Bush burying alive tens of thousands of unarmed Iraqi 17-year-olds, who were trying to surrender, with bulldozers. I didn't know George Bush could drive a bulldozer. Kee-ripe.
Ok, someone is fundamentalist, someone else is not. What defines a fundamentalist (Not who!!!!!!!!!). That is an essential question which nobody has agreed upon an answer, at least to what literature / discussion / news i've seen..
--AutoWeek had an article about the car within the past six weeks. It was the issue with the Diablo VT AWD on the cover. Naturally, I don't remember the date of the issue offhand, but I can check it if anyone is interested. --Aamir Qazi --
Hey GUI folks, Does anyone out there have experience with the HP Interface Architect (GUI dev tool)? If so, can I call you and ask a couple of quick questions? I promise I'll be brief, the questions are simple, and of course I'll call on my nickel. Jeff Copeland jeffcop@i88.isc.com 708-505-9100 x330 INTERACTIVE Systems Corp. (now a Systemhouse co.)
I think there is a huge difference in the materials and process for printer/toner PCB's. I get first time, everytime results from a local HP Postscript, and hardly ever works from copies of the same artwork. The printer results are so good that I have quit even looking for PC board processes. If I had to use the copier version, I would think I would look elsewhere. The moral? Experiment and find what works. Toner transfer CAN give excellent results. It, like any process, gives erratic results with variable inputs.
Hi, I just compiled the X11R5 distribution for a Sun3/SunOS4.1.1. I also compiled the public domain xview3 (with olwm) distribution. I have some old 3rd-party application binaries that are SunView programs. How do I get them to work under xview3 and olwm? (I tried using the OpenWindows version 2 "svenv" program, but it did not work.) I do not have news access....that's why I am mailing this directly. Also, is there an email alias where my questions can get to comp.windows.x or comp.windows.open-look? PLEASE RESPOND TO fwr8bv@fin.af.mil Thanks, Shash
Gravity. It'll never let you down, er up, er... Lesson: Put your helmet on the ground or your head. If you put it on the ground, it isn't gonna fall down _to_ the ground. If you put it on your head, well... tom coradeschi <+> tcora@pica.army.mil
I find this thread on motif accelerators absoultly amazing. If I were writing an interface to keyboard accelerators, I would have one resource called "accelerators" that took a translation table, period. I would also implement it so that programmer never has to do any work to get the accelerators installed. As soon as the end-user specified one, it would be active and automatically installed. To get multiple accelerators on a single menu item I'd do something like: *menuItem.accelerators: #override \n\ Ctrl<Key>M: fire() \n\ Shift<Key>L: fire() \n The accelerators would work exactly like translations and you would automatically see a "Ctrl M" show up in your menuItem object. Why in the world is the motif stuff so complicated with so many different special cases depending on what type of widget you're dealing with? There has to be some reason. Sorry for the political tone of this message...
Can anyone tell me where I might find stereo images of planetary and planetary satellite surfaces? GIFs preferred, but any will do. I'm especially interested in stereos of the surfaces of Phobos, Deimos, Mars and the Moon (in that order). Thanks.
Here are some selected excerpts of the invitation/registration form they sent me. Retyped without permission, all typo's are mine. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Low-Cost Lunar Access: A one-day conference to explore the means and benefits of a rejuvenated human lunar program. Friday, May 7, 1993 Hyatt Regency - Crystal City Hotel Arlington, VA ABOUT THE CONFERENCE The Low-Cost Lunar Access conference will be a forum for the exchange of ideas on how to initiate and structure an affordable human lunar program. Inherent in such low-cost programs is the principle that they be implemented rapidly and meet their objectives within a short time frame. [more deleted] CONFERENCE PROGRAM (Preliminary) In the Washington Room: 9:00 - 9:10 a.m. Opening Remarks Dr. Alan M. Lovelace 9:10 - 9:30 a.m. Keynote Address Mr. Brian Dailey 9:30 - 10:00 a.m. U.S. Policy Outlook John Pike, American Federation of Scientists A discussion of the prospects for the introduction of a new low-cost lunar initiative in view of the uncertain direction the space program is taking. 10:00 - 12:00 noon Morning Plenary Sessions Presentations on architectures, systems, and operational concepts. Emphasis will be on mission approaches that produce significant advancements beyond Apollo yet are judged to be affordable in the present era of severely constrained budgets In the Potomac Room 12:00 - 1:30 p.m. Lunch Guest Speaker: Mr. John W. Young, NASA Special Assistant and former astronaut In the Washington Room 1:30 - 2:00 p.m. International Policy Outlook Ian Pryke (invited) ESA, Washington Office The prevailing situation with respect to international space commitments, with insights into preconditions for European entry into new agreements, as would be required for a cooperative lunar program. 2:00 - 3:30 p.m. Afternoon Plenary Sessions Presentations on scientific objectives, benefits, and applications. Emphasis will be placed on the scientific and technological value of a lunar program and its timeliness. --------------------------------------------------------------------- There is a registration form and the fee is US$75.00. The mail address is American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Dept. No. 0018 Washington, DC 20073-0018 and the FAX No. is: (202) 646-7508 or it says you can register on-site during the AIAA annual meeting and on Friday morning, May 7, from 7:30-10:30 Sounds interesting. Too bad I can't go.
This will be the first of monthly postings of the newsletter of the Long Island Chapter of the Transplant Recipients International Organization (TRIO). Unfortunately, I was unable to post it before the date of this month's meeting. I'm posting it anyway, and posting it world-wide instead of regional, in the hopes that some of the information may be useful or illustrative. Also, I hope it can be used as an example and inspiration for the posting of other newsletters and data related to organ transplantation and donation. Mike Transplant Recipients International Organization Long Island Chapter P.O. Box 922 Huntington, NY 11743-0922 NEWSLETTER 516/421-3258 APRIL 1993 VOLUME IV No. 8 NEXT MEETING The next meeting is WEDNESDAY APRIL 14 at 8 pm at the Knights of Columbus Emerald Manor, 517 Uniondale Avenue in Uniondale. Our guest speaker will be Dr. Lewis Teperman. Dr. Teperman trained in Pittsburgh under Dr. Starzl and is now the Assistant Director of the Liver Transplant Program at New York University Medical Center. Dr. Teperman will discuss current trends in transplantation and treatment and will answer questions. He is a long time friend of TRIO, surgeon to many of our members, and always a gracious and delightful guest. It is sure to be a very informative, interesting and engaging evening. Our hospitality committee, Bette and Vito Suglia and Jim Spence will be well prepared, and at last the weather should be cooperative. We hope to see a very large gathering to welcome Dr. Teperman. WEDNESDAY APRIL 14 K of C UNIONDALE LAST MEETING It has been noted here before that the Long Island Chapter of TRIO has extraordinary power in predicting bad weather, being able to forecast rain, sleet and snow fully a month in advance. No TV weatherman can match us. This time we not only scored again, but we were also able to disable the Long Island Railroad, making travel REALLY difficult. None the less, many braved the snow and we had an interesting meeting and good conversation. Our scheduled speaker, Mrs. Elizabeth Linnehan, a professional nutritionist, had a family emergency and was not able to attend. She hope she will be with us in the fall to discuss diet and medications. However, Ms. Jennifer Friedman, an image consultant and sister of a liver transplant recipient was kind enough to step in on very short notice. Ms. Friedman gave us a lot of good advice about choosing clothes and makeup, (even a bit for men) to help us look well and healthy and to minimize some of the cosmetic effects of some of the medicine and drugs we take. We are most grateful to Jennifer and thank her for an entertaining evening. ANNUAL MEETING In addition to welcoming Dr. Teperman, the April meeting is also the Annual meeting of the Chapter. This is the official notice of the meeting as required by our By-Laws. The main purpose of the meeting is to review the past year, solicit member views and ideas for better ways to meet their needs, and to elect members of the Board of Directors for the coming two year term. The nominating committee has prepared the following slate for the Board. Anne (Liver Recipient) and Don Treffeisen Robert (Heart Recipient) and Eulene Smith Vito (Kidney Recipient) and Bette Suglia Kay Grenzig (Liver Recipient) Jan Schichtel (Kidney Recipient) Larry Juliano (Kidney Recipient) David Bekofsky (Director Public Education LITP) Those remaining on the Board for another year are: Robert Carroll (Liver, Kidney & Pancreas Recipient) Jerry (Kidney Recipient) and Jeanne Eichhorn Ron (Kidney Donor) and Marie Healy Peter Smith (Bone Marrow Recipient) Patricia Ann Yankus (Kidney and Pancreas Recipient) Walter Ruzak (Kidney Recipient) This may seem to be a big Board, but many hands make light work and with our various medical uncertainties, it is good to have backups for all the jobs on the Board. Therefore, in addition to the slate being presented for voting, nominations will also be accepted from the floor. There is no set number of Board members and there is plenty of work. In addition, brief treasurer's and membership reports will be given and the floor will be open for any new business, suggestions, or comments anyone would like to bring up. We will keep the formal meeting short so that we can spend the majority of the time with Dr. Teperman. FUTURE MEETINGS Remember the scheduled guests for the rest of the year. May 12 Dr. Peter Shaprio, Chief of Psychiatry Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center June 9 Dr. Felix Rappaport, Director of the Stony Brook Kidney Transplant Program. Plan on being with us the second Wednesday of each month. NOTDAW The week of April 18-24 is National Organ and Tissue Donor Awareness Week. NOTDAW. While we are planning news releases, speaking engagements and meetings with Supervisors Gullata and Gaffney, we have decided not to have our softball game because of two year's experience with miserable weather. We all can help spread the word on donor awareness, however. We have found it effective to ask your pastor, or rabbi to publish a letter or announcement in the parish bulletin, allow you to address the congregation, or include mention of the gift of life in his sermon. Attached to this Newsletter is a sample letter and fact sheet you can use. Thank you. DR. STARZL TO BE HONORED The Long Island Chapter of the American Liver Foundation will hold its annual Auction and Dinner Dance on May 7th at the Fountainbleu on Jericho Turnpike in Jericho. Dr. Thomas Starzl will be the honored guest. Tickets are $50 person and are going fast. If you'd like to meet Dr. Starzl, call Anne Treffeisen at (516) 421-3258 for details. MEMBERSHIP NEWS Congratulations to Al Reese. Al received his heart transplant in Pittsburgh after waiting 3 1/2 years. He is home and doing well after only 12 days in hospital. Arthur Michaels, liver recipient, is planning to run the Boston Marathon in April. What fantastic proof that transplantation works! We hope the national press notices. Bob McCormack, after a persistent bout with infection, had his transplanted kidney removed. He is home now, back on dialysis and feeling better. Nicole Healy, kidney recipient and daughter of Ron and Marie, spent the past several weeks in hospital in Miami with problems encountered on vacation. Marie has been with her in Florida. They are back in New York where Nicole's treatment will continue. We wish Nicole a speedy recovery. Kay Grenzig, liver recipient, is mending now after a bad fall that resulted in a broken arm and a broken leg. Kay is a candidate for the Board so we need her well soon. And best wishes to all coming out of the flu. It was a tough winter for many, but the tulips are just under the snow.
Just a quick comment. Backup lights mounted on the side would actually be *extremely* useful for people backing out of parking stalls... Regards, Charles
window = XCreateWindow(...); XSetTransientForHint(display, window, window); XMapWindow(...);
: Consumer Reports once wrote about the S-10 Blazer that it "shook and rattled : like a tired taxi cab". There is one noise that is expecially irritating - : the back window squeaks. I believe its because the whole tailgate assembly : and window are not solid. Anyway, has anyone had the same problem, and have : you found any fixes? : I can relate to this. I've tried everything on my 86, greasing every point, WD40, etc. Grease on the two cheap hinges on the tailgate seems to quiet it down for a time, until the grease works out of the hinges. (Hinge pins appear to be made out of 16 penny nails!) Another vibration seems to get worse with age, and that is a vibration in the transmission in 4th gear. My S10 has 59K miles on it. I bought it new, treated it very easily, no fast off-road stuff. Can't GM build Chevies like they used to? Ford Explorers look nice, until you look at the price.
Yes, it's possible... in fact, there's some gl widget code in /usr/lpp/GL somewhere... (it's named Glib.c; my IBM's down right now though, so I can't find the exact location :) WARNING: this code feels quite bogus. It does things like calling noport() before winopen(), and then extracting an X window id from it anyway. It worked just fine under aix 3.1; I spent last weekend trying to port it to 3.2 (gl under 3.2 doesn't seem to like it), and it's turning into a Hard Job. Check out your "info" pages; it has some pretty good documentation on whan you can and can't do when mixing gl and X, and how to go about doing so.
I'll second that. In addition, I find my hazards to be more often used than my horn. At speeds below 40mph on the interstates, quite common in mountains with trucks, some states require flashers. In rural areas, flashers let the guy behind you know there is a tractor with a rather large implement behind it in the way. Use them whenever you need to communicate that things will deviate from the norm. Is that ZX-11 painted green? Since the green Triumph 650 that a friend owned was sold off, her name is now free for adoption. How does the name "Thunderpickle" grab you?
I guess what I am really asking, like I did above, how does my government who is my servent, tell me the soveriegn what I can or cannot possess? It would seem to me that the act of possessing a machine gun is no less "criminal", by definition, than the act of possessing a television set. I also would seem to me that it would be better to pass laws that say, that if I harm or kill someone with the machine gun or the television set that there would be specific penalties for doing such. Sorry, I was close.
They come with every Iris now. Nth also ships it with their latest version of Nth Portable GL. I just got the update a couple of weeks ago. I would assume that Silicon Graphics would license the source to you so that you can include it in your company's GL offering.
Gosh, Jesse is that famous now? He was my intern. Landau not liking it makes me like it out of spite. (Just kidding, Bill). -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Yeah, but the problem with holding up the "extra-rational" examples as exemplars, or as refutations of well founded methodology, is that you run smack up against such unuseful directions as Lysenko. Such "extra- rational" cases are curiosities -- not guides to methodology.
I tried to E-mail you, but the message bounced. Motorola has a University Support Program through which (I've been told) folks at schools can get sample quantities of parts. If you'd like to try this route, e-mail me for the address/phone #...I don't wish to post it for all the world to see.
I don't think Yigal and his friends have had as much fun for years, if ever, as they're getting over this ADL business. The publicity is likely to generate some speaker's fees, too.
Sigh. Farwell LA, Donchin E. The truth will out: Interrogative polygraphy ("lie detection") with event-related brain potentials. Psychophysiology 1991;28:531-547 "The research reported here was supported in part by contract number 87F350800 with the Central Intelligence Agency. Preliminary reports were presented at the 1986, 1988, and 1989 meetings of the Society for Psychophysiological Research". Donchin happens to be an Israeli. Do you really think that Israel needs something as primitive as torture when it has THIS as well as something brought over by a Russian mathematician from the Lenningrad Military Hospital in 1979 (factor-analysis of multiple unit activity of the brain) ??? Surely you jest. When Israel sics trained dogs on Arab prisoners the way it's commonly done on prison farms in Mississippi or Alabama, *then* you have a right to protest against torture. When Israeli security personnel beat Arab prisoners the way Chicago police do, *then* you have a right to complain. Since it does NOT practice physical torture in any way, kindly refrain from using this word. Josh backon@VMS.HUJI.AC.IL
What does this <censored> from NORWAY think he's doing telling us how to run the place? I wanna know... somebody please 'splain. Guess how NORWAY survived the Third Reich? Give you a hint, it wasn't by passive resistance the way the Danes did it....
No. reverse lights are to warn others that you are backing up. They aren't bright enough to (typically) see by without the brake and tail lights. Well, red and orange were already taken. Maybe white defines the direction that the car is moving in. If you really want to be able to see behind you, get some fog lamps for the back of the car. These work very well - and are a good way to get rid of tailgaters if you get that rush of testosterone.
Forwarded from: PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE JET PROPULSION LABORATORY CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION PASADENA, CALIF. 91109. (818) 354-5011 Contact: Mary A. Hardin FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 15, 1993 #1506 Scientists at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory report the successful flight of a balloon carrying instruments designed to measure and study chemicals in the Earth's ozone layer. The April 3 flight from California's Barstow/Daggett Airport reached an altitude of 37 kilometers (121,000 feet) and took measurements as part of a program established to correlate data with the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS). The data from the balloon flight will also be compared to readings from the Atmospheric Trace Molecular Spectroscopy (ATMOS) experiment which is currently flying onboard the shuttle Discovery. "We launch these balloons several times a year as part of an ongoing ozone research program. In fact, JPL is actively involved in the study of ozone and the atmosphere in three important ways," said Dr. Jim Margitan, principal investigator on the balloon research campaign. "There are two JPL instruments on the UARS satellite," he continued. "The ATMOS experiment is conducted by JPL scientists, and the JPL balloon research provides collaborative ground truth for those activities, as well as data that is useful in its own right." The measurements taken by the balloon payload will add more pieces to the complex puzzle of the atmosphere, specifically the mid-latitude stratosphere during winter and spring. Understanding the chemistry occurring in this region helps scientists construct more accurate computer models which are instrumental in predicting future ozone conditions. The scientific balloon payload consisted of three JPL instruments: an ultraviolet ozone photometer which measures ozone as the balloon ascends and descends through the atmosphere; a submillimeterwave limb sounder which looks at microwave radiation emitted by molecules in the atmosphere; and a Fourier transform infrared interferometer which monitors how the atmosphere absorbs sunlight. Launch occurred at about noontime, and following a three- hour ascent, the balloon floated eastward at approximately 130 kilometers per hour (70 knots). Data was radioed to ground stations and recorded onboard. The flight ended at 10 p.m. Pacific time in eastern New Mexico when the payload was commanded to separate from the balloon. "We needed to fly through sunset to make the infrared measurements," Margitan explained, "and we also needed to fly in darkness to watch how quickly some of the molecules disappear." It will be several weeks before scientists will have the completed results of their experiments. They will then forward their data to the UARS central data facility at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland for use by the UARS scientists. The balloon was launched by the National Scientific Balloon Facility, normally based in Palestine, Tex., operating under a contract from NASA's Wallops Flight Facility. The balloon was launched in California because of the west-to-east wind direction and the desire to keep the operation in the southwest. The balloons are made of 20-micron (0.8 mil, or less than one-thousandth of an inch) thick plastic, and are 790,000 cubic meters (28 million cubic feet) in volume when fully inflated with helium (120 meters (400 feet) in diameter). The balloons weigh between 1,300 and 1,800 kilograms (3,000 and 4,000 pounds). The scientific payload weighs about 1,300 kilograms (3,000) pounds and is 1.8 meters (six feet) square by 4.6 meters (15 feet) high. The JPL balloon research is sponsored by NASA's Upper Atmosphere Research Program and the UARS Correlative Measurements Program.
I'm running X under openwindows 3. Normal X programs not having a font specified always show up in the same font - until I change the fontpath, and restart windows - then a new default font is used until the next change. I can't seem to figure out how it chooses. Is there some way to set this? Possibly something in .Xdefaults??? Please reply in direct email - I summarize.
The subject line says it all. I'm working on a project that will use a car battery. I need to pull off 3V and possibly 48V at 3A. I have several ideas, but I'd prefer to benefit from all you brilliant people :-)
An excellent reference for non-technical readers on the ORION system is "The Starflight Handbook", by Eugene Mallove and Gregory Matloff, ISBN 0-471-61912-4. The relevant chapter is 4: Nuclear Pulse Propulsion. The book also contains lots of technical references for the more academically inclined. Enjoy!
I am trying to build a circuit that detects the presence of video (Vs. a blank screen) by monitoring the R,G, and B outputs of a graphics card. It should be able to detect the presence of a single pixel at 65 MHz, which would mean detecting a 15 NS pulse. It should also be able to tell the difference between a blank screen (about 300 mv) and a dim screen (say, around 310 mv). Oh yes, it also needs to be cheap. My first circuit was a dismal failure. I used 3 compariators; each compariator had the + input going to one of the guns, the - input went to a reference created by a voltage divider(a potentiometer). The first problem was that the compariator was way too slow.. I needed to get several pixels in a row before it would fire the compariators, so I could have a whole screen full of text, but my circuit would not detect it. The second problem is that there was more noise on the reference then the smallest difference between a blank screen and a dim screen. In fact the difference between completely black and completely white is only 650 mv. I am wondering if I am going to have to amplify the video signals to make this work. There are faster compariators, but they are expensive, and require split supplies. I would need to replace my .49 quad compariator with three 1.89 compariators, and create a whole new power supply circuit. At this point, I think what I need is some sort of transistor circuit. Transistors are fast and cheap and should do the trick... Unfortunately, I am way out of my league when It comes to designing transistor circuits, so I am appealing to the net for help. Any ideas, tips, circuits, pointers, references, etc. would be greatly appreciated. Oh yes, I only sample the output of this thing every second or so, so I don't need a fast response time at all, however, I haven't found a way to take advantage of that fact. Thanks a lot for any help anybody might be able to give. Of course, you will have my undying gratitude. Steve Verity
A local dealer is advertising "No negotiation necessary!" Make you wonder...
I need to have PCs and SPARCstations run the same application ( namely MicroSoft Project ). The original system ran on the PC. Now it needs to be expanded to allow UNIX users to work with the application. The current proposal is to use DESQview/X as a display server for the application. I would like to know your experiences with using DESQview/X to run an application on a PC and displaying on a SPARCstation. I've heard that the network traffic is slow. Replies only by e-mail please. Thanks, in advance.
[MODERATOR: Nice summary, Keith, thanks.] I talked to the federal Dept. of Justice (DOJ, Ottawa) to try and clarify a bunch of things regarding changes to Canadian gun laws. I am posting here for informational purposes; questions to email, followup to t.p.g. 1. It is still technically feasible (but almost impossible) to get a concealed carry permit in Canada. This is contrary to what I was told by a police officer. 2. It is still legal to use lethal force (such as a firearm) to protect life, also contrary to what the officer told me. Guns must be stored locked up and unloaded, however. 3. Regarding hi-capacity magazines, it is still not clear who will be exempt or how this will be managed. This is up to each province. The general idea is that exempt persons will receive a letter/form authorizing them to possess the high capacity magazines. Apparently, the authorization is to specify how many of these 'prohibited weapons' you will be allowed to possess. Dealers will be allowed to order high capacity mags for those allowed to possess them, but will not be allowed to stock them. 4. High capacity magazines converted to comply with the new limits will not be considered prohibited weapons. Amendments to the regulations specify some possible methods to alter the magazines. Some manufacturers (Beretta) will be marketing reduced capacity magazines. (God knows how much they'll charge for these) This covers most of what we discussed. I have typed this from memory, do not take it as gospel. I am not a lawyer and I refuse to play one on TV. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------
I don't know where you live, but I couldn't get out of my driveway at night without reverse lights. As someone said, out in the country you notice neat little things like stars and the difference between day and night. At night around my house (which is amongst a forest of rather tall oaks) it is DARK, except for nights with full moons. Reverse lights illuminate my path very well when backing up; I greatly prefer cars with them to cars without operational reverse lights. James
As applied to servers, the first three are fuzzy terms. "multi-headed" tends to be used for any system with multiple monitors, sometimes even multiple screens even if they're multiplexed onto the same monitor (eg, a Sun with a cg4 display). "multi-screen" and "multi-display" would, if taken strictly, mean different things, but since the strict meaning of "multi-display" would refer to a system with multiple keyboards and pointers, when it's used it probably refers to the same thing "multi-screen" would: a system that provides multiple Screens. "zaphod" is a term applied to the way the MIT server switches the pointer from one screen to another by sliding it off the side of the screen. There is a protocol limitation that restricts a given Display to at most 255 Screens. I know of no server that handles multiple Displays on a single invocation, unless possibly my kludges to the R4 server can be looked upon as such; on a TCP-based system there is necessarily a limit of 65535 Displays per machine, but this is not a limitation inherent to X. What you read was most likely talking about a limit in some particular implementation (probably the MIT one). If it claimed there was a limit of 12 inherent to X, the author of the article had no business writing about X. der Mouse
For sale - Mazda 323 1986 Mazda 323 White exterior, Grey interior. 75,000 miles Interior in very good condition. Exterior in good condition Pioneer DX 680 car stereo. - CD player - 18 FM presets, 6 AM - removable faceplate - seperate component speakers professionally mounted in the doors. The car has been well maintained. I wax it often and keep the interior clean. Its a good running car with a solid body (no rust thru, tiny spots of surface rust. When I see a spot I touch it up.) The stereo makes the car. I have had no mechanical problems with it. I'm looking for $900.00 firm. The car has an average wholesale value of about $900.00 without the stereo. The stereo cost me $500.00 last July. If you are interested, call or Email me at:
: Where can I get xman source? I would like to get the binaries for : xman for an HP 9000/700, but I would settle for source. : : -- Try xport.lcs.mit.edu, in direcotry /contrib. --
I'll tell you my story as an example of what *not* to do. Early in 1984 I took some riding lessons from my college roommate on his old Honda CB360T. He had taken the MSF beginner's course, so I actually learned *some* of what I needed to know to ride. I proceeded to buy a beat-up Honda CL350 for $400 and a $12 helmet and rode around wearing this and a cotton windbreaker. Then I decided to invest in a full-face helmet (first smart move). Sometime around then I also passed my road test. On May 4, 1984, I got caught in a rainstorm on my way home from a 4-mile trip. Entering the town where I lived (a rather urban suburb), I had to stop suddenly for a red light that I noticed too late, skidded the rear tire out, and was ejected face upward into the oncoming lane of traffic. Fortunately for me the oncoming traffic was also stopped for the same red light, otherwise I might have slid under a car and been killed. Now this is anecdotal evidence, to be sure, but I later took the Experienced Rider Course from the MSF and saw that earlier training could have helped me greatly. In your case the need is even greater since you have nobody to help you practice even the most basic stuff as I did. So my advice is to take the MSF beginner's course first thing. I wouldn't even buy a bike until you've taken the course, unless you happen to pick up a real good deal and can store it someplace until you're ready to use it. While you're waiting to take the course (it might take a few weeks in DC, as I recall there were always waiting lists in Boston), could you save up some more money to start out right? Say $300 for riding gear, plus the cost bike, plus maybe $100 (guess) to a mechanic to make sure the machine is safe (assuming you economize by buying some old beat-up machine from a private individual), plus insurance, plus registration and licensing fees, plus the course, you're looking at maybe $600 not including the bike itself and a reserve for ongoing maintenance. I pay about $100 insurance now (upstate NY) but it was closer to $200 in Boston (more urban) for decent insurance including substantial coverage for liability, which you want unless you plan always to be poor. I'd guess DC is more like Boston than like a rural area, ergo more expensive. There used to be annual buyer's guides in the usual motorcycle magazines; I found those helpful in getting an idea of what new or recent models might be available. You could probably look through past issues to size up what used bikes might be available. (My first bike was 13 years old when I bought it so I went on my friend's advice instead.) Also look at the bikes that you see people riding or that are parked on the street. I basically settled on my present bike by noticing that there were a lot of high-mileage BMW's running around and they were generally set up the way I wanted. Nothing wrong with talking to various dealers in your area or visiting showrooms. Dealers in the Boston area, at least when I was shopping, were very nice about letting you look around their showrooms and quoting prices for bikes that weren't the latest models (hence cheaper), although I ended up buying both bikes in private sales.
: As the subject says - Can I use a 4052 for digital signals? I don't see : why it couldn't handle digital signals, but I could be wrong. Anyone have : any advice? Thanks. The switches have a non-negligable on resistance (up to 1k ohm when powered by 5 volts) and a maximum current and a Maximum Static Voltage Across Switch. Not a good bet for TTL. Should work for CMOS, but slow things down a bit. There are 74HC versions that have better specs. but lower max voltage.
Anyone around here read this yet? Does Anita have a number? Tony
We have a setup with with 13 polaroid transducers and rangefinders. We would like to fire these three at a time with about 5 ms between firings. The three that are being fired do not fire in the same direction. To further explain the situation, assume we are firing sonars A,B,C 5 ms apart each other. We should normally see an echo on A that corresponds to the distance. However, sonar A detects the INIT line of sonar B! The detection is actually through the transducer of sonar A; we can see a very faint 50Khz signal on the transducer, exactly at the time the init line of sonar B is activated. We feel that there is some ground coupling that is causing this interference. We came to this conclusion since we are using a separate power supply for sonars B and C. Has anyone else had any problems with these particular units and this type of experience? Your suggestions for remedies will be greatly appreciated.
What happened in Waco is not the fault of the BATF. If they would of had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. The BATF needs more people, better weapons and more armored transports. When they meet hostile fire they should be able to use more force instead of retreating to a stand off. If you are going to do a job then do it right. The BATF is there to protect us and they must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. With the WoD and the increased crime in the streets the BATF is needed more now then ever. If they blast away a few good fokes then that is the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. Look at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country of ours.
Never said you didn't publish, merely that there is data you don't publish, and that no-one scoriates you for those cases. IBM research publishes plenty, it's why you ended up with 2 Nobel prizes in the last 10 years, but that some projects are deemed company confidential. ATT Bell Labs, keeps lots of stuff private, Like Karamankars algorithm. Private moeny is entitled to do what it pleases, within the bounds of Law, and For all the keepers of the temple of SCience, should please shove their pointy little heads up their Conically shaped Posterior Orifices. pat
Oh....I see...I didn't realize this... I think that perhaps you should print flyers on this topic, and your reasons for thinking the way you do. You should then distribute them amongst the world's population. You see, I don't think there are many people who are aware of this fact. Thank you for telling us the truth. BTW: I would start by sending your flyers to each of the UN officials. Also, after you have distributed your flyers you might consider hiding. You see, I think that once more people read what you think they will have to lock you up in a mental institute; and don't think they will ever let you out. It is a strange strange world you live in. I feel sorry for you. --
I'd appreciate any feedback on capture/playback tools for use with X clients. I have pulled XTM from public domain but it appears to be set up to test X servers not X clients. Any comparisons/comments on regression testing tools would be great - particularly XTM, XRunner, Autotester, and SRI's CAPBAK, SMARTS and EXDIFF.
We run "SpaceNews & Views" on our STAREACH BBS, a local operation running WWIV software with the capability to link to over 1500 other BBS's in the U.S.A. and Canada through WWIVNet. Having just started this a couple of months ago, our sub us currently subscribed by only about ten other boards, but more are being added. We get our news articles re on Internet, via ftp from NASA sites, and from a variety of aerospace related periodicals. We get a fair amount of questions on space topics from students who access the system. ____________________________________________________________
I am coordinating the Space Shuttle Program Office's e-mail traffic to NPO Energia for our on-going Joint Missions. I have several e-mail addresses for NPO Energia folks, but I won't post them on the 'Net for obvious reasons. If you need to know, give me a yell. -- Ken Jenks, NASA/JSC/GM2, Space Shuttle Program Office kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (713) 483-4368
: kevinh, on the Tue, 20 Apr 1993 13:23:01 GMT wibbled: Jonathan Quist bemoaned: : : |> Yes, it's a minor blasphemy that U.S. companies would ?? on the likes of A.M., : : |> Jaguar, or (sob) Lotus. It's outright sacrilege for RR to have non-British : : |> ownership. It's a fundamental thing Lotus looks set for a management buyout. GM weren't happy that the Elan was late and too pricey. If they can write off the Elan development costs the may be able to sell them for a sensible price. : : I think there is a legal clause in the RR name, regardless of who owns it : : it must be a British company/owner - i.e. BA can sell the company but not : : the name. : : kevinh@hasler.ascom.ch : I don't believe that BA have anything to do with RR. It's a seperate : company from the RR Aero-Engine company. It's Vickers who own Rolls Royce cars. And yes Kevin it is posts, Morgan use a sliding pillar front suspension. Ob Bike (at long bleeding last): When will that Pettefar bloke get a mail address so we can bung him on the Ogri list? dave
I was posting to Alt.locksmithing about the best methods for securing a motorcycle. I got several responses referring to the Cobra Lock (described below). Has anyone come across a store carrying this lock in the Chicago area? Any other feedback from someone who has used this? Thanks for any info., Steve
Yes, and I do everyone else. Why, you may wonder, don't I do 'Fred'? Well, that would just be too *obvious*, wouldn't it? Oh yeah, this isn't my real name, either. I'm actually Elvis. Or maybe a lemur; I sometimes have difficulty telling which is which. -- "Insisting on perfect safety is for people who don't have the balls to live in the real world." -- Mary Shafer, NASA Ames Dryden
I have a nice quote that I like (or as close as I can remember it). If I say something that you think is crazy, ask me what I mean before you think its crazy.. So some of my ideas are a bit odd, off the wall and such, but so was Wilbur and Orville Wright, and quite a few others.. Sorry if I do not have the big degrees and such, but I think (I might be wrong, to error is human) I have something that is in many ways just as important, I have imagination, dreams. And without dreams all the knowledge is worthless.. Sorry my two cents worth. Or is it two rubles worth? The basic quote idea is from H. Beam Pipers book "Space Vikings". Its a good book on how civilization can fall, and how it can be raised to new heights.
No one should EVER rely on just a magazine to determine what car they buy, I don't care what magazine. Btw, I subscribe to three other auto rags, I just think CU is getting a bum rap by these macho men from hell who think real men should read . . . . Statements like what you said above have no meaning. People keep on saying "CU is only good for dishwashing detergent" or as you all they say. If there were as critical of themsevles as they are of CU maybe there would be some real content. john
I've seen solar battery boosters, and they seem to come without any guarantee. On the other hand, I've heard that some people use them with success, although I have yet to communicate directly with such a person. Have you tried one? What was your experience? How did you use it (occasional charging, long-term leave-it-for-weeks, etc.)? -- Robert Kennedy
Here is a computation I did a long time ago that computes the length of the daylight. You should be able to convert the information here to sunrise and sunset times. -- Rouben Rostamian Telephone: 410-455-2458 Department of Mathematics and Statistics e-mail: University of Maryland Baltimore County bitnet: rostamian@umbc.bitnet Baltimore, MD 21228, USA internet: rouben@math.umbc.edu ====================================================================== Definitions: z = the tilt of the axis of the planet away from the normal to its orbital plane. In case of the Earth z is about 23.5 degrees, I think. I do not recall the exact value. In case of Uranus, z is almost 90 degrees. u = latitude of the location where the length of the day is measured. Paris is at about 45 degrees. North pole is at 90. a = angular position of the planet around the sun. As a goes from 0 to 360 degrees, the planet makes a full circle around the sun. The spring equinox occurs at a=0. L = daylight fraction = (duration of daylight)/(duration of a full day). On the equator (u=0) L is always 1/2. Near the north pole (u=90 degrees) L is sometimes one and sometimes zero, depending on the time of the year. Computation: Define the auxiliary angles p and q by: sin p = sin a sin z cos q = h ( tan u tan p ), (0 < q < 180 degrees) Conclusion: L = q / 180 (if q is measured in degrees) L = q / pi (if q is measured in radians) Wait! But what is h? The cutoff function h is defined as follows: h (s) = s if |s| < 1 = 1 if s > 1 = -1 if s < 1 As an interesting exercise, plot L versus a. The graph will shows how the length of the daylight varies with the time of the year. Experiment with various choices of latitudes and tilt angles. Compare the behavior of the function at locations above and below the arctic circle.
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: From Israeli press: Nazi methods. /* Written 4:38 pm Apr 16, 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc:mideast.forum */ /* ---------- "From Israeli press: Nazi methods." ---------- */ FROM THE ISRAELI PRESS Newspaper: Ha'aretz Date: 14 February1993 Author: Gideon Levi Subject: NAZI methods in Gaza Title: In the neighborhood of Hope, among the rubble (Excerpts) Mahmoud Jowara'r stared at me long and sadly: "I worked my entire life in order to built that house and this is what is left". Only TV could transmit the full sadness of his face. "You say that we teach our children to hate you, but what do you expect to happen to a child who sees this ?" And once again he wraps himself in a lengthy silence, his face crumbling into weeping. Mahmoud stood in the field of rubble that was once his home. The term 'dispossession' has an absolute meaning here. Nothing is left of what he accumulated during his entire life, only the rubble of a house and shreds of belongings. Once again Khan Yunis. Once again demolished homes. Last Thursday there was a search for wanted people here. Once again the IDF forces employed the new method, fired and bombed and shot missiles and placed explosives. Already three times during the past weeks I have gone out to see the destruction and each time I was more horrifying scenes. This time they hit the largest number of houses, 17 according to the IDF estimate, ten of them completely demolished. But not only that: the method has also become more brutal. Three weeks ago, in Tufah neighborhood in Gaza, the residents were still told to remove their valuables from their homes. This time the army skipped that part; three weeks ago the handcuffed men, inhabitants of the demolished homes, were supplied with some water and one apple during the 12 hours they had to stand. This time there was only water. Three weeks ago they were even allowed to go out to the toilet. This time the soldier just gold them: Piss and shit in your pants. And thus, last Thursday, some 45 men stood for about 12 hours, their hands bound behind their backs, their eyes blindfolded, without food, with wet pants on their legs and a terrible feeling of humiliation in their hearts, listening to the sounds of the explosions destroying their homes, one after the other. (...)
Hello, I am planning on attending Podiatry School next year. I have narrowed my choices to the Pennsylvania College of Podiatric Medicine, in Philadelphia, or the California College of Podiatric Medicine in San Francisco. If anyone has any information or oppinions about these two schools, please tell me. I am having a hard time deciding which one to attend, and must make a decision very soon. thank you, Larry ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Live From New York, It's SATURDAY NIGHT...
Oh, and us with the big degrees don't got imagination, huh? The alleged dichotomy between imagination and knowledge is one of the most pernicious fallacys of the New Age. Michael, thanks for the generous offer, but we have quite enough dreams of our own, thank you. You, on the other hand, are letting your own dreams go to waste by failing to get the maths/thermodynamics/chemistry/(your choices here) which would give your imagination wings. Just to show this isn't a flame, I leave you with a quote from _Invasion of the Body Snatchers_: "Become one of us; it's not so bad, you know"
With regards to my condemnation of Marc's ridiculous attacks on the American Department of Justice, and further attacks on Jews, to anyone who took offense to my calling Marc stupid, I apologize for pointing out the obvious. It was a waste of the Net's time. I hope, though, that most American citizens have the basic knowlege of the structure of American government to understand the relationship between the Justice Department as a part of the Executive Branch, and the Courts, which are of the Judicial Branch. Marc's ignorance of basic civic knowlege underscores his inability to comprehend and interpret foreign affairs.
Well, these are Armenian and Jewish scholars, not me. Denying the obvious? Source: Hovannisian, Richard G.: Armenia on the Road to Independence, 1918. University of California Press (Berkeley and Los Angeles), 1967, p. 13. "The addition of the Kars and Batum oblasts to the Empire increased the area of Transcaucasia to over 130,000 square miles. The estimated population of the entire region in 1886 was 4,700,000, of whom 940,000 (20 percent) were Armenian, 1,200,000 (25 percent) Georgian, and 2,220,000 (45 percent) Moslem. Of the latter group, 1,140,000 were Tatars. Paradoxically, barely one-third of Transcaucasia's Armenians lived in the Erevan guberniia, where the Christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds. Erevan uezd, the administrative center of the province, had only 44,000 Armenians as compared to 68,000 Moslems. By the time of the Russian Census of 1897, however, the Armenians had established a scant majority, 53 percent, in the guberniia; it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent, or 670,000 of the 1,120,000 inhabitants. This impressive change in the province's ethnic character notwithstanding, there was, on the eve of the creation of the Armenian Republic, a solid block of 370,000 Tartars who continued to dominate the southern districts, from the outskirts of Ereven to the border of Persia." (See also Map 1. Historic Armenia and Map 4. Administrative subdivisions of Transcaucasia). In 1920, '0' percent Turk. "We closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as ways of escape for the Tartars and then proceeded in the work of extermination. Our troops surrounded village after village. Little resistance was offered. Our artillery knocked the huts into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable and inhabitants fled from them into fields, bullets and bayonets completed the work. Some of the Tartars escaped of course. They found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border into Turkey. The rest were killed. And so it is that the whole length of the borderland of Russian Armenia from Nakhitchevan to Akhalkalaki from the hot plains of Ararat to the cold mountain plateau of the North were dotted with mute mournful ruins of Tartar villages. They are quiet now, those villages, except for howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the scattered bones of the dead." Ohanus Appressian "Men Are Like That" p. 202. "In Soviet Armenia today there no longer exists a single Turkish soul. It is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us create for ourselves. It certainly is possible to severe the artificial life-support system of an imagined 'ethnic purity' that some of us falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats in this alien land." (Sahak Melkonian - 1920 - "Preserving the Armenian purity") <1993Apr24.042427.29323@walter.bellcore.com> ddc@nyquist.bellcore.com (Daniel Dusan Chukurov 21324) No kidding. The Armenians tore apart the Ottoman Empire's eastern provinces, massacred 2.5 million defenseless Turkish women, children and elderly people, burned thousands of Turkish and Kurdish villages and exterminated the entire Turkish population of the Armenian dictatorship between 1914-1920. Such outrageous sleight of hand that is still employed today in Armenia brings a depth and verification to the Turkish genocide that is hard to match. A hundred years ago Armenians again thought they could get whatever they wanted through sheer terror like the Russian anarchists that they accepted as role models. Several Armenian terror groups like ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangle resorted to the same tactics in the 1980s, butchering scores of innocent Turks and their families in the United States and Europe. It seems that they are doing it again, at a different scale, in fascist x-Soviet Armenia today. A merciless massacre of the civilian population of the small Azeri town of Khojali (Pop. 6000) in Karabagh, Azerbaijan, is reported to have taken place on the night of Feb. 28 under a coordinated military operation of the 366th mechanized division of the CIS army and the Armenian insurgents. Close to 1000 people are reported to have been massacred. Elderly and children were not spared. Many were badly beaten and shot at close range. A sense of rage and helplessness has overwhelmed the Azeri population in face of the well armed and equipped Armenian insurgency. The neighboring Azeri city of Aghdam outside of the Karabagh region has come under heavy Armenian artillery shelling. City hospital was hit and two pregnant women as well as a new born infant were killed. Azerbaijan is appealing to the international community to condemn such barbaric and ruthless attacks on its population and its sovereignty. Serdar Argic
I think the Israeli press might be a tad bit biased in reporting the events. I doubt the Propaganda machine of Goering reported accurately on what was happening in Germany. It is interesting that you are basing the truth on Israeli propaganda.
I'm not very impressed by the old so-called "prospecting" work from LPI, it has almost all been geared towards industrially silly processes on the moon as an excuse to put astronauts there. [...] Translation: It doesn't support the Nick Szabo Vision of the Future to Which You MUST Subscribe... Fred, we're all supporting what each of us thinks should be done, to some degree. If you have a problem with what Nick thinks should be done, address it, instead of just complaining about his doing so. You really don't get what the 'complaints' are about, do you? [not incredibly clear explanation of complaints...something between feelings regarding Nick's method, and judgments about his meaning] T F *** Fred's issue #1; Nick's alleged trashing of others *** I only got it when you stopped trashing, and made your point patently, instead of 'allegorically'. That was my point all along, Fred. I see we are dealing with a problem in a conflict of interpretations, not least of which is your belief that only you can adequately judge what is and is not debate. Suffice to say that I disagree with you on that last point. Why don't you take a poll, Fred, if you want some psuedo-objective point-of-view? And, as usual, you defend your insults with "he started it." "Yeah, I took some of his research and called it my own, but he started it." "So what if I stole his car, he stole my lawnmower first." Besides that, I think it's still open to interpretation whether Nick actually did start it. So your defense, besides being lame, and contradicting the first part of the sentence in which it occurs, may not even apply anyway. Your defense reminds me of the guy that broke the borrowed tool: "I never borrowed it, I already gave it back, and it was broken when you gave it to me." Make up yer mind, Fred! First, I try to address what I think you meant, for which I am rewarded with a denial of sorts, and a smart remark. Then, I point out that I am not clear what you did mean, rather than risking your childish ire, wrongly interpreting you a second time, and I'm stupid for it. I just can't win, can I, Fred? You've got a great point here somewhere, it's just that between stupid people that you must insult, and your jealous guarding of your valuable opinions, you never actually get around to making it. *** Fred issue #2; Nick's alleged meaning *** Too bad the plan only exists in your mind, instead of Nick's, or you would have a really good point. Instead you have provided a good reason to ignore your insults, since they are based on incorrect interpretations that you have made about others. Forgive me for giving your insults more meaning than they ever should have had. My reading of what Nick actually said is that "people aren't required in all parts of all space processes", so your taking issue with his opinions regarding people in the space program, I read as "People are required in all parts of all space processes." So, help me out, here, Fred, since I'm so patently stupid. Did you read Nick wrong? Or are you going to eat your terminal now? If the latter, I sure hope it's one of those Cheeto and string models that all the computer mags have been raving about :-) The point is, _I_ am not stupid because of _your_ incorrect assumption. I'd only be stupid if I insulted you for having made it. But, alas, that's your job, Fred. And, finally, your style is confusing, since you tried to make two points, simultaneously, with an allegory/insult. Sadly, one point addressed a 'plan' that only existed in your mind, and the other took issue with behaviors that you do as much as anyone. No, no, I finally got it. You don't like the plan that Nick's posts made you imagine. And you don't like Nick's obnoxious behavior, even though it's no worse than your own. Thanks for taking the time with someone as dense as myself. Of course, Socrates. How could it be otherwise? Who cares who came on the net first? If you do, consider that you saw me come on after a brief haitus, before which I was on for about 2 years. If you had seen me on the net first, you'd remember when Nick and I went down exactly the same road regarding rude, unneccesary behavior. It's just amazing to me that you continue to take issue with behavior that's no worse than your own. Let's see here, my complaints about your obnoxious behavior are hypocritical, while your flames against people you decide are flamers isn't, and my complaints about your name-calling are immature, while your name-calling isn't. Yeah, right. Maybe if you called me some more names, I might see it better, Fred. "Net.ghod wannabe"? Naturally, Fred, you've correctly interpreted my motivations, when yours are impossible to judge from your actions (as your insulting of people that try, proves). I didn't really care about people that fill the net with personal garbage, what I really wanted was to impress everyone. I only put my complaints with your behavior on private mail, not because it belongs there, but because I thought you were such a jerk that you'd bring it back to the Net, playing right into my hands. Alas, I had no idea what an intellectual master you were, turning tables and bringing the history of these posts to the net, for the noble and valuable purpose of embarassing me. Whether I should feel stupid because I tried to make suggestions to such a superior intellect, or becuase I tried to communicate like an adult with a self-righteous ass, still isn't clear. Well, Fred, you exposed me. Now I'll never be able to get a(nother) job with NASA, since they all know that I'm stupider than Fred McCall. Well, I just hope you're happy. Please leave me alone, now. I just don't have the heart to attempt keeping up with one so far above me. Maybe Nick or Pat can approach your high standards, but I'm dropping it now. -Tommy Mac ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tom McWilliams 517-355-2178 wk \\ As the radius of vision increases, 18084tm@ibm.cl.msu.edu 336-9591 hm \\ the circumference of mystery grows.
In fact, you probably want to avoid US Government anything for such a project. The pricetag is invariably too high, either in money or in hassles. The important thing to realize here is that the big cost of getting to the Moon is getting into low Earth orbit. Everything else is practically down in the noise. The only part of getting to the Moon that poses any new problems, beyond what you face in low orbit, is the last 10km -- the actual landing -- and that is not immensely difficult. Of course, you *can* spend sagadollars (saga- is the metric prefix for beelyuns and beelyuns) on things other than the launches, but you don't have to. The major component of any realistic plan to go to the Moon cheaply (for more than a brief visit, at least) is low-cost transport to Earth orbit. For what it costs to launch one Shuttle or two Titan IVs, you can develop a new launch system that will be considerably cheaper. (Delta Clipper might be a bit more expensive than this, perhaps, but there are less ambitious ways of bringing costs down quite a bit.) Any plan for doing sustained lunar exploration using existing launch systems is wasting money in a big way. Given this, questions like whose launch facilities you use are *not* a minor detail; they are very important to the cost of the launches, which dominates the cost of the project.
> > Besides, there's no case that can be made for US military involvement > there that doesn't apply equally well to, say, Liberia, Angola, or > (it appears with the Khmer Rouge's new campaign) Cambodia. Non-whites > don't count? Hmm...some might say Kuwaitis are non-white. Ooops, I forgot, Kuwaitis are "oil rich", "loaded with petro-dollars", etc so they don't count. ...and let's not forget Somalia, which is about as far from white as it gets.
For an essay, I am writing about the space shuttle and a need for a better propulsion system. Through research, I have found that it is rather clumsy (i.e. all the checks/tests before launch), the safety hazards ("sitting on a hydrogen bomb"), etc.. If you have any beefs about the current space shuttle program Re: propulsion, please send me your ideas. Thanks a lot.
As quoted from <1993Apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu> by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu: Kind of sounds like Plessy v. Ferguson, huh? Of course as in that case, things change, huh? No, if your little fantasy comes to pass, the country will have gone TOWARD the KKK. You're of course being a little disengenuous. Violent solutions are never passe FOR THE GOVERNMENT and CRIMINALS (who frequently) cannot be distinguished). "Avoid situations which encourage criminals"? You mean don't be a woman? Don't be Black? Don't be gay? I'm quite certain that having a surfeit of unarmed victims will discourage your beloved KKK from engaging in "violent solutions"....
========================== OZONE GIF IMAGES April 15, 1993 ========================== Two GIF images of the ozone maps over the northern and southern hemispheres are now available at the JPL Info public access site. These maps were produced by the Microwave Limb Sounder aboard the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS), and are courtesy of the Public Information Office at JPL. Note that the images are in GIF89a format, so make sure your display software supports this format (as opposed to the older GIF87a format). The caption files accompanying the images are appended at the end of this message, as well as being embedded in the images. The images are available by dialup modem at +1 (818) 354-1333, up to 9600 bps, parameters N-8-1, or by using anonymous ftp to: ftp: pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.6.2) user: anonymous cd: news (will be moved to the images directory in 30 days) files: ozone93a.gif - Northern hemisphere ozone93b.gif - Southern hemisphere Also, photographic prints of these images can be ordered from Newell Color Lab listed below. Refer to the P number associated with the images when ordering. Newell Color Lab 221 N. Westmoreland Avenue Los Angeles CA 90064 Telephone: (213) 380-2980 FAX: (213) 739-6984 -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ozone93a.gif PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE JET PROPULSION LABORATORY CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION PASADENA, CALIF. 91109. TELEPHONE (818) 354-5011 PHOTO P-42210 April 14, 1993 This graphic depicts chlorine monoxide and ozone over Earth's northern hemisphere in February 1992 and 1993. These maps were produced by the Microwave Limb Sounder aboard the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite. The chlorine monoxide (ClO) maps (left) are for a layer about 20 kilometers (66,000 feet) above the Earth's surface on February 17, 1992 (above) and 1993 (below). The ozone maps show the total amount above an altitude of about 12 kilometers (41,000 feet) averaged over the period from February 15 to March 6 for the two years. The Microwave Limb Sounder, developed and operated by a team at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, is one of several instruments on the Goddard Space Flight Center's Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite, launched in September 1991. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ozone93b.gif PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE JET PROPULSION LABORATORY CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION PASADENA, CALIF. 91109. TELEPHONE (818) 354-5011 PHOTO CAPTION P-42211 April 14, 1993
I have been for a fairly hard run in an MX5, what they lack in power they surely make up for in handling. Great for back streets with heaps of corners. They are a fairly light car with a low center of gravity and a quite free revving DOHC engine, a fun car. Have you driven a TURBO converted MX5? Now they are starting to perform! I've often thought a Mazda rotary would go well in the XM5 too....anyone done it? Regards Scott. _______________________________________________________________________________ Scott Fisher [scott@psy.uwa.oz.au] PH: Aus [61] Perth (09) Local (380 3272). _--_|\ N Department of Psychology / \ W + E University of Western Australia. Perth [32S, 116E]--> *_.--._/ S Nedlands, 6009. PERTH, W.A. v Joy is a Jaguar XJ6 with a flat battery, a blown oil seal and an unsympathetic wife, 9km outside of a small remote town, 3:15am on a cold wet winters morning.
How can I get the font family, weight and slant from an instance of a widget? Using initFontContext(), getNextFont() and freeFontContext() I can get the size of the font (and a bunch of other stuff concerning the font) but nowhere have I found family, weight and slant. Assume that I do not have access to the source where family, weight and slant were orginaly used when creating a fontlist. Thanks a bunch and have a great day, Carl carl@softsolut.com
Source: "Men Are Like That" by Leonard Ramsden Hartill. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis (1926). (305 pages). (Memoirs of an Armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 204 (first paragraph). "I was soon asleep. In the night I was awakened by the persistent crying of a child. I arose and went to investigate. A full moon enabled me to make my way about and revealed to me all the wreck and litter of the tragedy that had been enacted. Guided by the child's crying, I entered the yard of a house, which I judged from its appearance must have been the home of a Turkish family. There in a corner of the yard I found a women dead. Her throat had been cut. Lying on her breast was a small child, a girl about a year old." Serdar Argic
[This belongs in comp.windows.x.i386unix - I've redirected followups] I know for a fact that the EISA version of the Orchid ProDesigner IIS works. However, an EISA SVGA card is likely a waste of money. When XFree86 2.0 comes out, with support for accelerated chipsets, ISA, EISA, and VLB will all be supported. The more important question is "what chipsets are supported?". The bus is basically irrelevent as a compatibility issue. -- David Wexelblat <dwex@mtgzfs3.att.com> (908) 957-5871 Fax: (908) 957-5627 AT&T Bell Laboratories, 200 Laurel Ave - 3F-428, Middletown, NJ 07748 XFree86 requests should be addressed to <xfree86@physics.su.oz.au>
A very simple question : it seems to me that the contraceptive pill just prevents the ovule to nest in the vagina and forces it to fall every month. But it does not prevent the fertilzation of the ovule. Is it true ? If yes, is there a risk of extra-uterine pregnancy, that is the development of the ovule inside the Fallopian tube ?
Yes, yes, yes. Motorcycling is slightly different to each and every one of us. This is the nature of people, and one of the beauties of the sport. And what view exactly is it that every single rider of cruiser bikes holds, a veiw that, of course, no sport-bike rider could possibly hold? Please quantify your generalization for us. Careful, now, you're trying to pigeonhole a WHOLE bunch of people.
It's not the NRA's fault; but it is something to consider if you are considering contributing to the NRA. If candidate B is a complete asshole whose only saving grace is that he opposes unnecessary restrictions on firearms, I wouldn't want my membership dues funding efforts to get him re-elected. I have other problems with the NRA (as an organization; the individual members I've met have been loyal, trustworthy, honest, brave, etc., especially my boss who probably reads this newsgroup B->); they are definitely pro-hunting, and I recall seeing a pro-Desert Storm NRA bumper sticker. Sometimes they come on too strong in the political arena, which contributes to their reputation as "bad guys" amoung many people.
Great! I'll visit the National Air and Space Museum at the end of the month with my wife, who was also working at General Atomic at the time. Once again netnews has enriched my life.
Absolutely, unless you are in the U.S. Then the cager will pull a gun and blow you away.
His _heart_? This jerk doesn't have a heart, and it beats me why you're apologizing for him. In my book, behavior like this is unprofessional, inexcusable, and beyond the pale. If he's overworked, it's because he's too busy raking in the bucks. More likely, he just likes to push women around. I'd fire the s.o.b., and get myself another doctor.
Hi all! Quick question. Could someone please send me a pinout of the cable that goes between a NeXT cube and the monitor? Also, I am interested in the video signal (sync type, horz/vert rate) so any information on that would be greatly appreciated also.
Just want to back this up with a personal anecdote. My grandparents have a Navajo rug made in the 1920's, which they received in trade from the weaver while living in Flagstaff, Arizona. The decorative motif consists of 4 large black swastikas, one in each corner. What's more, the color scheme is black, white, and red. To the casual glance it would undoubtedly appear to be a Nazi relic of some kind. Yet they owned it ten years before Hitler and the National Socialists came to power. As I recall, they took it down in the 30's, and didn't feel quite right about putting it back up until the 60's. It still draws comments from those who don't know what it is. --ccm -- Christopher C. May * U. of Ariz. Coll. of Medicine '93 * cmay@ccit.arizona.edu +=============================================================================+ +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
Help !! - I'm looking for a ISA driver card and driver software for a Logical Devices Husky programmer (It aint mush good without these) can anyone help with either of these items ? cheers Mike.
From _Myths and Facts_, by Leonard J. Davis, Near East Research Inc., 1989: [pp. 108-109] "Unlike the PLO's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets, the 100 troups from the Irgun and Stern group that struck at Deir Yassin on April 10, 1948, targeted the village for its military importance. Deir Yassin was on the road to Jerusalem, which the Arabs had blockaded, and it housed Iraqi troups and Palestinian irregulars. Snipers based in Deir Yassin were a constant threat to Jewish citizens in Jerusalem. "Arab civilians were killed at Deir Yassin, but that attack does not conform to the propaganda picture that the Arabs have tried to paint. The number of Arabs killed was generally reported to be about 250. In 1983, however, Eric Silver of _The Guardian_ (Britain) interviewed a survivor, Mophammed Sammour, who testified that 116 out of a population of 800-1000 were killed. 'About three days after the massacre,' Sammour explained, 'representatives of each of the five clans in Deir Yassin met at the Moslem offices in Jerusalem and made a list of the people who had not been found (alive). We went through the names. Nothing has happend since 1948 to make me think this figure was wrong.'
The Cold War has not ended. The only thing that has happened is that the two sides have exchanged roles. The USA has a higher imprisonment rate (400 per 100,000 population) than any country in Europe by a factor of 10 or so. In California, it is over 600 per 100,000 population. The prison population in California is now over 100,000, a quadrupling since 1980. Most of these inmates were convicted under the drug prohibition laws. Police now confiscate property, without trial, under a "good faith probable cause" standard, in the name of depriving the horrible ghastly drug dealers of their ill-gotten gains. Conduct an opinion poll, and a majority will answer "yes" if you ask them whether civil liberties and due process should be diluted in order to Send Our Young People The Message That We Are Serious About Winning The War On Drugs. I don't know whether anyone has measured such a figure among gun owners, but I would expect the same result. They certainly seem to vote that way. According to Jack Herer's book _The Emperor Wears No Clothes_, over TWELVE MILLION YEARS of prison time have been served under the marijuana prohibition laws, by people who were minding their own business and causing no harm to others (and less harm to themselves than users of tobacco, with 400,000 confirmed kills/year). Under the "War on Drugs" campaign of "zero tolerance" due process protections have eroded, and mandatory sentences of ten years without parole have proliferated. By and large, gun owners have voted for the politicians who favor such measures. And now, all the precedents--not only legal, but political: "My fellow Americans, we must send our young people the message that we are serious about winning the War On Murder"--are going to be applied to the oncoming wave of gun prohibition laws. Gun owners are about to get a taste of the medicine they voted for believing it would be used only on those with different tastes in recreational drugs. What goes around comes around.
You are making precisely one of the points I wanted to make. I fully agree with you that there is a big distinction between the *process* of science and the end result. As an end result of science, one wants to get results that are objectively verifiable. But there is nothing objective about the *process* of science. If good empirical research were done and showed that there is some merit to homeopathic remedies, this would certainly be valuable information. But it would still not mean that homeopathy qualifies as a science. This is where you and I disagree with Turpin. In order to have science, one must have a theoretical structure that makes sense, not a mere collection of empirically validated random hypotheses. Experiment and empirical studies are an important part of science, but they are merely the culmination of scientific research. The most important part of true scientific methodology is SCIENTIFIC THINKING. Without this, one does not have any hypotheses worth testing. (No, hypotheses do not just leap out at you after you look at enough data. Nor do they simply come to you in a flash one day while you're shaving or looking out the window. At least not unless you've done a lot of really good thinking beforehand.) The difference between a Nobel Prize level scientist and a mediocre scientist does not lie in the quality of their empirical methodology. It depends on the quality of their THINKING. It really bothers me that so many graduate students seem to believe that they are doing science merely because they are conducting empirical studies. And it bothers me even more that there are many fields, such as certain parts of psychology, where there seems to be no thinking at all, but mere studies testing ad hoc hypotheses. And I'm especially offended by Russell Turpin's repeated assertion that science amounts to nothing more than avoiding mistakes. Simply avoiding mistakes doesn't get you anywhere. -- In the arguments between behaviorists and cognitivists, psychology seems less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects.
No, that sounds pretty reasonable for that car and that city. Unless you have an accident, you won't need more. If you plan on paying for the car with a credit card, check and see if your card automatically covers rental cars. Also, your own auto insurance may cover rental cars also. Most rental companies here offer extra insurance when you rent, and require you to initial in several spots if you don't want it. The credit cards and personal auto insurance provide the same sort of coverage that the rental agency is trying to sell. I have never rented from Alamo, so I don't know if they follow this same practice. Yes. It is a compact 2-door, probably a bit dull performance and acceleration-wise, but very adequate. It will have an automatic transmission, AM/FM stereo, air conditioning, and possibly power windows and door locks. Joe
Wishful thinking mostly. It's more likely that the Moon will never be the site of major commercial activity. As far as we know it has no materials we can't get cheaper right here on Earth or from asteroids and comets, aside from the semi-mythic He3 that *might* be useful in low grade fusion reactors. Exploring it would satisfy a curiosity itch, and it's position in the gravity well of Earth coupled with it's heat sink capacity could offer some military utility for "high ground" military weapons systems, but it holds very minute commercial value. If space travel becomes cheap enough, it might become a tourist attraction as Mt. Everest and the Antarctic have become, but that's a very minor activity in the global scope of things. Luna has an inconvienent gravity field. It's likely too low to prevent calcium loss, muscle atrophy, and long term genetic drift. Yet it's too high to do micro-G manufacturing. Space based colonies and factories that can be spun to any convienent value of G look much better. Luna has a modest vacuum and raw solar exposure two weeks a month, but orbital sites can have better vacuums and continous solar exposure. Luna offers a source of light element rocks that can serve as raw materials, heatsink, and shielding. The asteroids and comets offer sources of both light and heavy elements, and volatile compounds, and many are in less steep gravity wells so that less delta-v is required to reach them. We don't use 2/3rds of the Earth now, the seafloors, and we virtually ignore Antarctica, a whole continent. That's because we don't have to deal with those conditions in order to make a buck. Luna is a much more expensive place to visit, or to live and work. I think we'll use the easier places first. That pushes Lunar development back at least a few centuries, if not much longer. Luna's main short term value would be as a place for a farside radio astronomy observatory, shielded from the noisy Earth. Or as the site of a laser, particle beam, or linear accelerator weapons system for defending Earth, or bombarding it as the case may be. The first is unlikely because of the high cost for such a basic science instrument. The second is just as unlikely because conventional nukes are good enough, and the military would really rather see the Earth safe for conventional warfare again. There's little glory in watching from a bunker as machines fight each other over continental ranges. Little ultimate profit either. Gary
Maybe...then again did you get rid of that H/D of yorn and buy a rice rocket of your own? That would certainly explain the friendliness...unless you maybe had a piece of toilet paper stuck on the bottom of your boot...8-). Rich
We've developed a number of applications using DevGuide and found it to be a very useful tool. I've been impressed with the level of integration it affords using the connection editor. I love the general ease of use. I talked with Tali Aben at Sun today about DevGuide + Motif. She was very helpful. We provided some input as to what we'd like to see in the next version of DevGuide. Tali was very enthusiatic about our comments. I mentioned I was going to post this email message and she offered to receive additional comments from the net on what DevGuide should evolve into. Send your comments/wish-list, raving, et. al. about DevGuide to: Tali.Aben@Sun.COM Pretty cool example of a company that cares what we want.... More of this and computers may have a future. Frankly, I like the idea that it will offer some migration capability to DOE/DOMF through an integrated ToolTalk capability, pointed out in March's SunExpert magazine.
I need advice with a situation which occurred between me and a physican which upset me. I saw this doctor for a problem with recurring pain. He suggested medication and a course of treatment, and told me that I need to call him 7 days after I begin the medication so that he may monitor its effectiveness, as well as my general health. I did exactly as he asked, and made the call (reaching his secretary). I explained to her that I was following up at the doctor's request, and that I was worried because the pain episodes were becoming more frequent and the medication did not seem effective. The doctor called me back, and his first words were, "Whatever you want, you'd better make it quick. I'm very busy and don't have time to chit- chat with you!" I told him I was simply following his instructions to call on the 7th day to status him, and that I was feeling worse. I then asked if perhaps there was a better time for us to talk when he had more time. He responded, "Just spit it out now because no time is a good time." (Said in a raised voice.) I started to feel upset and tried to explain quickly what was going on with my condition but my nervousness interfered with my choice of words and I kind of stuttered and then said "well, never mind" and he said he'll talk to various colleagues about other medications and he'll call me some other time. This doctor called me that evening and said because I didn't express myself well, he was confused about what I wanted. At this point I was pretty upset and I told him (in an amazingly polite voice considering how angry I felt) that his earlier manner had hurt my feelings. He told me that he just doesn't have time to "rap with patients" and thought that was what I wanted. I told him that to assume I was calling to "rap" was insulting, and said again that I was just following through on his orders. He responded that he resented the implication that he felt I was making that he was not interested in learning about what his patients have to say about their condition status. He then gave me this apology: "I am sorry that there was a miscommunication and you mistakenly thought I was insulting. I am not trying to insult you but I am not that knowledgeable about pain, and I don't have a lot of time to deal with that." He then told me to call him the next day for further instructions on how do deal with my pain and medication. I am still upset and have not yet called. My questions: (1) Should I continue to have this doctor manage my care? (2) Since I am in pain off and on, I realize that this may cause me to be more anxietous so am I perhaps over-reacting or overly sensitive? If this doctor refers me to his colleague who knows more about the type of pain I have, he still wants me to status him on my condition but now I am afraid to call him.
Paul-- for the same reason that many other colonies are founded. Why not?
Are you suggesting that we should forget the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people by the Armenians between 1914 and 1920? But most people aren't aware that in 1939 Hitler said that he would pattern his elimination of the Jews based upon what the Armenians did to Turkish people in 1914. 'After all, who remembers today the extermination of the Tartars?' (Adolf Hitler, August 22, 1939: Ruth W. Rosenbaum (Durusoy), "The Turkish Holocaust - Turk Soykirimi", p. 213.) I refer to the Turks and Kurds as history's forgotten people. It does not serve our society well when most people are totally unaware of what happened in 1914 where a vicious society, run by fascist Armenians, decided to simply use the phoniest of pretexts as an excuse, for wiping out a peace-loving, industrious, and very intelligent and productive ethnic group. What we have is a demand from the fascist government of x-Soviet Armenia to redress the wrongs that were done against our people. And the only way we can do that is if we can catch hold of and not lose sight of the historical precedence in this very century. We cannot reverse the events of the past, but we can and we must strive to keep the memory of this tragedy alive on this side of the Atlantic, so as to help prevent a recurrence of the extermination of a people because of their religion or their race. Which means that I support the claims of the Turks and Kurds to return to their lands in x-Soviet Armenia, to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland. Serdar Argic
For image display, about 10 frames per second seems to be the lower limit for interactive operations. For just bringing up an image for viewing less than 1 second seems to be a good number. Of course the measure of response time should be based on the applications you are planning to run.
: I'm looking at the following three SUV's; anyone who's driven all : three have any strong opinions? : : Ford Explorer : Toyota 4Runner : Nissan Pathfinder Well, I was just in your position and I drove all three and liked all three. It was a toss-up. I marginally went with the Pathfinder based on reliability and looks. I don't think you can go wrong with any of them.
Which works fine until you end up in the hospital because you were hit on the head and your wallet, with your insurance card, is stolen. This happened to me, and it took six months to sort the mess out. These sorts of plans sound nice at first, but in the end they just create a lot of paperwork and bureaucracy to deal with all the checking and filing they involve.
This is the latest from UPI Foreign Ministry spokesman Ferhat Ataman told journalists Turkey was closing its air space to all flights to and from Armenia and would prevent humanitarian aid from reaching the republic overland across Turkish territory. Historically even the most uncivilized of peoples have exhibited signs of compassion by allowing humanitarian aid to reach civilian populations. Even the Nazis did this much. It seems as though from now on Turkey will publicly pronounce themselves 'hypocrites' should they choose to continue their condemnation of the Serbians. --
<Could some tell me how to print characters over ASCII 127 on a laser <printer? After being thrilled on being able to create them on my <screen, my enthusiasm has somewhat died down due to this setback. Well, more information is required... 1) What computer are you using? 2) What operating system are you using? 3) What kind of printer are you using? a) PostScript? b) HP-PCL? etc.
...deleted lines... As I live in Sweden I remember the day perfectly well. We changed side 1967-09-03 (or 03-SEP-1967). I don't remeber the exactly time but it was in the night. (in the 'big' cities like Stockholm & Gothenburg all trafic was forbidden, exept busses and taxis, during the whole weekend.) The day was a Sunday and everything was prepared in before. Before the day we was told to follow the yellow lines on the road and after it was the white one that matters. The signs with arrows on was prepared with a 'left mode' label that was torn off that night to reveal the new right mode arrow. The year after Iceland also changed. About cars: Before the H-day (H as in "Hoegertrafik". "hoeger" is Swedish and stands for 'right') practically all cars already had their steering wheels on the left side. Even the imported cars from UK had the wheel on 'the right side'. At last we have cars with the wheels on the right side. :-) More contries that uses the left side is: Japan Tanzania (I think) New Zeeland How about South Africa? BTW. Some sais that the left side is the right side because Ivanhoe and other knights meet at the left when they fight in tournaments. :-) ...deleted lines...
Ihave had a frozen shoulder for over a year or about a year. It is still partially frozen, and I am still in physical therapy every week. But the pain has subsided almost completely. UNTIL last week when I mowed the lawn for twenty minutes each, two days in a row. I have a push type power mower. The pain started back up a little bit for the first time in quite a while, and I used ice and medicine again. Can anybody explain why this particular activity, which does not seem to stress me very much generally, should cause this shoulder problem? Thanks.
Where do I find the Athena Widgets that are needed for xtdm-2.4.8
Cool - I conjure up this image of BD in Doonesbury...so Dean, how long have you been sleeping with your helmet on??
...let me point out that both GUI-based word-processors and text-based formatters both have a language; one happens to be mouse- and action-based, and the other symbol-based. True, but that's beside the point. This is a fact about an abstract model of what the GUI users are doing, not about what they actually *are* doing. This abstract model is only apparent from the perpective of a *programmer* of the system. (NB: some users may see it, too, but only when they put aside the work at hand and start thinking like a programmer.) I'm not saying that the programmer's perspective is evil or stunted. After all, that's what I do, too! I am saying that UI designers must carefully distinguish between the user/programmer conceptual models, and they must ultimately serve the user of the system, not the builder of the system. I don't recall the actual stats, but something like 1 in 5 people can be categorized as a "symbol manipulator". It would be interesting to know more about the meaning and basis for this claim. At any rate, I don't think this is evidence that 20% of users think like programmers. Bankers, financial analysts, structural engineers --- these are all people whose work you could characterize as primarily symbol manipulation. But what they do is not programming, and programming is not required to do what they do.
I knew that Cutie would sell us out. Full-blooded Democrat, he is :-) Seriously folks, if it can happen here (remember? we all got gun racks on our 4x4s), it can happen anywhere. Now to get that letter ready. `Dear Cutie, as one who didn't vote for you, I can sincerely say I am unhappy...' Those who know what's best for us Must try to save us from ourselves -- RUSH --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No it's not. If you would have read my other post I was accurate. Here's what [material from another post]-------------------------> The other point that I would like to make because I know it's true (looked this one up in the Illinois this is for you Andy-----> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ statutes before) is that it is illegal to carry a concealed weapon in Illinois. ^^^^^^^^ <------ Also for you Andy. And then I went on to say: There is no such thing as a CCW for us ordinary folk here. [end of quoted material] Of course I forgot to mention who "us ordinary folk" are so just for Andy I'm going to go to the library tomorrow and photocopy the part of the Illinois statutes with this information and post it. Ordinary citizens CAN NOT get a license to carry a concealed weapon. There are very few people who can. I even asked my lawyer friend about this and he told me that only certain people can get licenses for concealed carry. He couldn't remember which people but he knew for sure that regular citizens couldn't get that type of license. He told me to go check at the library for the statutes which I did. I'll post that info tomorrow night. Until then.......
However, don't forget that the police in Chicago can carry just about anything they want except for the Glock, which is not approved for carry (Guess they figure all cops are like the Police Chief of Winnetka, who happened to let off a stray round of 9mm. This is the same anti-gun police chief that wanted full-auto Uzis for his patrol cars...). Perhaps in the judgement of the majority of Chicago's finest, a close-to- 100% reliable weapon like a revolver is preferable to a 99.99% reliable automatic. I note that in Germany, where certainly the 9mm semi-auto handgun is king, some of the more elite police types want revolvers. I don't think the issue is cost, because Chicago police certainly make on the order of at least $40K/year. Your presumption of "disadvantage" I think is not borne out by the experiences of New York City's cops; there the cops usually come out on top with their standard .38 Spl revolvers. I've seen S&Ws, Rugers and Beretta 9mms in addition to the revolvers carried by Chicago cops.... in the past, I've seen .45 M1911s; others have seen Browning Hi-Powers...
henrik] My response to the "shooting down" of a Turkish airplane over the henrik] Armenian air space was because of the IGNORANT posting of the henrik] person from your Country. Turks and Azeris consistantly WANT to henrik] drag ARMENIA into the KARABAKH conflict with Azerbaijan. The henrik] KARABAKHI-ARMENIANS who have lived in their HOMELAND for 3000 henrik] years (CUT OFF FROM ARMENIA and GIVEN TO AZERIS BY STALIN) are henrik] the ones DIRECTLY involved in the CONFLICT. They are defending henrik] themselves against AZERI AGGRESSION. Agression that has NO MERCY henrik] for INOCENT people that are costantly SHELLED with MIG-23's and henrik] othe Russian aircraft. henrik] At last, I hope that the U.S. insists that Turkey stay out of the henrik] KARABAKH crisis so that the repeat of the CYPRUS invasion WILL henrik] NEVER OCCUR again. DA] Armenia is involved in fighting with Azarbaijan. It is Armenian DA] soldiers from mainland Armenia that are shelling towns in Azarbaijan. Well, this is your opinion ! Turkish/ Azeris can BARK all they WANT since the ABOVE is UNTRUE. However, I am sure YOU GUYS would have NEVER brought up ARMENIA's involvement if KARABAKHI-Armenians had had HEAVY losses. DA] You might wish to read more about whether or not it is Azeri aggression DA] only in that region. It seems to me that the Armenians are better DA] organized, have more success militarily and shell Azeri towns DA] repeatedly. Read what ? The New York Times , that is publishing anti-armenian articles. Nop, I have my resources. Look, everyone knows how aggressive Turks/Azeris have been in the past. Armenians ARE NOT gona sit around and watch FIRE WORKS by AZERIS taught by TURKS. DA] It seems to me that the Armenians are better organized, have more success DA] militarily and shell Azeri towns repeatedly. Buch of non-sence CRAP and you know it. Who the hell you think you are talking to ? Azeris are FIGHTING LOCAL ARMENIANS in Nagarno-Karabakh. You tell me who has more MIG's ? Freedom fighters in Nagarno-Karabakh or Azerbaijan ? Again, I will say it for the last time, ARMENIA is NOT involved in this WAR and you guys WANT to bring this up in order to cover up the Turkish involvment in the Karabakh. Go ahead , REPEAT as much as you want. DA] I don't wish to get into the Cyprus discussion. Turkey had the right to DA] intervene, and it did. Perhaps the intervention was not supposed to DA] last for so long, but the constant refusal of the Greek governments both DA] on the island and in Greece to deal with reality is also to be blamed DA] for the ongoing standoff in the region. Not a chance ! You CAN NOT convince me (based on your REASONS)that your GOVERNMENT did the RIGHT thing to invade CYPRUS. DA] Lastly, why is there not a soc.culture.armenia? I vote yes for it. DA] After all, it is now free.
Not recommended. Your circuit would take too much current, when telephone is on-hook. Telephone company does not like it.
Even though I find this to be funny on the surface, the original poster of the joke has tried and convicted the members of the BD to be a bunch of "nuts". This may be a dangerous thing to do. It is my opinion that most educated or well informed people of this country have some distrust of the government. This should exist because as a bureaucracy, any government given enough time will tend to exist for it self and not for the original purpose it was created for. This distrust by the people should keep those in power in-line. That and a properly functioning press. When a sensationalism oriented press portrays a group of people as "nuts" or crazies, a violation of those people's civil rights seem justified. Since we, as American's, have the gurantee of rights as enumerated in the constitution, to include the 2nd ammendment, the government must appease the public's opinion or risk voted out of existance, or if it has become corrupt enough to tamper with domocratic process itself, being thrown out by force. Our government as it stands, must appease the public. Therefore the official press releases portray the BD's as fanatics who are a threat to public safety. We must not prejudge people based on one sided information. So far the only information that we are being given is comming from the very agency that was embarrased by the BD(Branch Davidians sp?). It is to their advantage to make the BD's as fanatical and dangerous as possible. If they were portrayed as law-abiding citizen's, then they(ATF) had no justification what so ever of doing what they did. So let's keep an open mind. Jokes like above, even though it may be funny, may mislead the public from the truth of the matter. Just as an aside, my understanding of U.S. vs Rock Island and U.S. vs Dalton leads me to believe that the National Firearms Act, which allows the Fed's (in this case ATF) to regulate firearms(machine guns), has been deemed to be unconstitutional since 1986.(By two federal district courts at least). And since, I believe the only reason ATF was involved in this case is because of firearms violations, it would be interesting to find out whether or not the search warrent was based on the NFA. It would be very embarrassing indeed if a search warrent based on a possibly unconstitutional law has resulted in 4 deaths(Law enforcement). **************************************************************************** The above opinions are mine and mine only. I'm solely responsible for my opinions and my actions. If you must flame then flame away, but a well constructed argument will be much more respected.
There were a few people who responded to my request for info on treatment for astrocytomas through email, whom I couldn't thank directly because of mail-bouncing probs (Sean, Debra, and Sharon). So I thought I'd publicly thank everyone. Thanks! (I'm sure glad I accidentally hit "rn" instead of "rm" when I was trying to delete a file last September. "Hmmm... 'News?' What's this?"....)
I don't like this comment about "Typical" thinking. You could state your interpretation of Exodus without it. As I read Exodus I can see a lot of killing there, which is painted by the author of the bible in ideological/religious colors. The history in the desert can be seen as an ethos of any nomadic people occupying a land. That's why I think it is a great book with which descendants Arabs, Turks and Mongols can unify as well.
To Andi, I have to disagree with you about the value of Israeli news sources. If you want to know about events in Palestine it makes more sense to get the news directly from the source. EVERY news source is inherently biased to some extent and for various reasons, both intentional and otherwise. However, the more sources relied upon the easier it is to see the "truth" and to discern the bias. Go read or listen to some Israeli media. You will learn more news and more opinion about Israel and Palestine by doing so. Then you can form your own opinions and hopefully they will be more informed even if your views don't change.
If it looks like a miniature corvette it would be an opel GT,the headlights are flipped over by pulling a lever inside.>
I don't know a great deal about the support for C++ in UIM/X, but I can tell you that there is good support for it in TeleUSE. In TeleUSE you can call any C++ method from a "D" module. What you can do then is to use the "D" language for most of your interface code and then use C++ for you application code. I should tell you that there is some real neat stuff coming out of TeleUSE soon in regard to C++, but I can't give you many details. You should talk to your local sales rep and get the lowdown on what they will be doing in the near furture. If you want example code of how C++ integrates with TeleUSE you should look at $TeleUSE/examples/Thermometer
Alright, beat this automobile sighting. Driving along just a hair north of Atlanta, I noticed an old, run down former car dealership which appeared to deal with, and repair, older rare or exotic foreign sports cars. I saw: Ford GT-40 (!), the famous model from Ford, that seemed to win most of its races in the late 60s, including Le-Mans 4 or 6 times. Two Jensen Interceptors, one a convertable, one a hatchback? Porsche 911 (boring compared to the rest) THREE Ferarries, a Mondial, a 308 prepared for racing, and a red 60s model that I couldn't identify. And at the bottom, a late 70s MG convertable. Outside there was a rotting Rover 3500 saloon, which was never regularly sold in the U.S. And in the showroom, there was a small italian body, either an Alpha Romeo or a Lancia. It was about the size of an Austin Mini. The trunklid was missing, exposing a boot with a voltage regulator in the upper left corner of the wall, and a chunk of metal removed from the floor on the right hand side as if something would leave the trunk and go to the outside from here. The taillights looked like they would be the round type (if they were there). Does anyone know what the make of this one is? Certainly made my day...
Your medical school library should have books on peripheral nerve injuries. Probably it was your brachial plexus, so look that up. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Here's one I hope some knowledgeable readers will make a comment or contribution to: In the State of Virginia radar detectors are illegal, period. If you are caught with one it will be confiscated on the spot and will not be returned until after you appear in court and pay your fine. The fine for having a radar detector accessible in a motor vehicle (even if it is not on) is $250.00. Sorry, tourist, ignorance of the law is no excuse - they will get you too! It used to be that the only way the law could be enforced was for an officer to actually see the radar detector. Not any more! Many law enforcement agencies are now using radar detector detectors. Right, a super sensitive receiver that is capable of picking up RF from the radar detector itself. My first reaction was "no way!" But, guess again, these little buggers really work and the police are writing citations right and left for people using radar detectors. One news story quoted an officer as saying that he had found the radar detector in all of the cars he stopped except one, and he could never figure out where it was - but he knew it was there. This tends to make one assume there are few false arrest. Now, before I get flamed, please understand that I do drive at or near the speed limit. I do not need a radar detector to keep me from getting a speeding ticket. But, I do like to know when my speed is being clocked or a speed trap is functioning. My radar detector now stays locked in my trunk when I am in Virginia (which is what they want - and yes, what the law says, and I intend to obey the law!) and is only used in states where it is legal. For my fellow hams, I am not a microwave person - my mind only works in the HF spectrum between 10 and 80 meters. Microwave enlightment may be necessary. So, the questions are - What do the radar detector detectors actually detect? Would additional shielding/grounding/bypassing shield stray RF generated by a radar detector, or is the RF actually being emitted by the detector antenna? Are any brands "quieter" than others?
[Note: I just tried to figure this stuff out about a month ago myself, from various people on the net, so I could be wrong.] The data is only ever read once (barring mistracks and such, of course), and eventually gets turned into 44.1 KHz, 16 bit, two channel data. Oversampling takes two discrete data points, and interpolates n-1 points between them for n times oversampling. When I asked, people said that the interpolation was not simply linear interpolation, but significantly more complicated. Anyway, then, the purpose of oversampling is to move the "effective" sampling rate up to n times 44.1 KHz, in order to use higher frequency antialiasing filters. For the same quality filter, higher oversampling lets you build cheaper filters, whereas for the same price filter, higher oversamplings lets you build better filters. So, assuming the quality of all other components in a CD player remained the same, oversampling should allow a manufacturer to produce _slightly_ better sound due to anti-alias filtering.
Is there a fast 'n dirty way to kill the line spiking that occurs when an inductive load is turned on sometime other than at zero-crossing of the AC cycle? A capacitor kludged in somehow, etc? I've got a microcontroller that is running a bunch of valves and pumps in a big instrument washer, and almost everything is being switched with zero-crossing solid state relays, so that stuff stays "quiet", AC-wise. But there's one steam valve that gets turned on by a mechanical relay in the water tank fill/thermostat system, and it's not under control of my SSRs, and it does sometimes generate/radiate a spike that resets one of my peripheral chips. My software times out and tries again, but I'd love to just tack in a magic spike-killing fix that would avoid having to do some major rewiring/redesign. A varistor would help but might not be sufficient. Ideas?
Are you (two) joking? Is the entire Internet flaming you (two)? Ahh!, now I remember that Ohmite company was the first introducing "the pink colored resistor", only for electronics working females ;-)
Look at the 4053. This is a triple 2-to-1 transmission-gate analog multiplexer, with positive and negative power supplies (can be run from a single-ended supply as well). With dual supplies, the logic inputs still range from ground (0 Volts) to VDD. This is a neat (well, I think so) design for a switchable-polarity amplifier: +-----/\/\/\-------+ | | | /--------\ | INPUT -+-/\/\/\--+----| - | | | | opamp |----+------- OUTPUT +-/\/\/\--+----| + | | \--------/ | CONTROL ---------X (analog switch) | | --- GND All resistors are equal-value. When the analog switch is closed, the amp is inverting-gain-of-one. With the switch open, it is non-inverting-gain-of-one. You can clean up the circuit to trim out input offset current if this hurts the balance (this would show up as carrier feed-through). For high frequencies, the slew-rate of the opamp might cause problems, especially if it isn't symmetrical (and it usually isn't).
Of course, it hasn't. Besides Egypt, the rest of the Arab world still officially denies that Israel exists. Kick out Syria? American-Occupied Lebanon? That's a new one on me!
Do you have the X source code? Simply look in mit/clients/xwininfo/xwininfo.c and you will find out exactly how to do it. :-)
Unfortunately, Hep B infection can eventuate in chronic hepatitis and subsequent cirrhosis. Although not many patients with Hep B go on to chronic hepatitis, it does still occur in a good number (20%?) and is something to keep in mind. Hepatitis C (was: non-A, non-B Hep) much more frequently leads to chronic hep and cirrhosis. There is also an autimmune chronic hepatitis that affects mostly younger women which also leads to cirrhosis. Of course, cirrhosis is a most unkind disease. The most dangerous effects relate to portal hypertension and loss of liver function. Patients develop life-threatening variceal bleeds and hepatic comas, among many other problems, as a result of disturbances in hepatic circulation. Less ominously, they can exhibit the effects of hyperestrogenemia which often characterize patients with cirrhosis. These effects include telangiactasias (small red skin lesions) and, in men, gynecomastia (breast development). The only real treatment for cirrhosis is liver transplant. Keep in mind that cirrhosis is not expected, at least statistically, in your friend's case. Nevertheless you might want to bring up the subject of chronic disease and cirrhosis with the doctor. Hopefully he or she can then carefully explain these sequelae of Hep B infection to you, and offer you support.
K(> K(> RR> OTOH, who are we kidding, the New England Medical Journal in 1984 K(> RR> ran the heading: "Ninety Percent of Diseases are not Treatable by K(> RR> Drugs or Surgery," which has been echoed by several other reports. K(> RR> No wonder MDs are not amused with alternative medicine, since K(> RR> the 20% magic of the "placebo effect" would award alternative K(> RR> practitioners twice the success rate of conventional medicine... K(> K(> 1: "90% of diseases" is not the same thing as "90% of patients". K(> K(> In a world with one curable disease that strikes 100 people, and nine K(> incurable diseases which strikes one person each, medical science will cure K(> 91% of the patients and report that 90% of diseases have no therapy. K(> K(> 2: A disease would be counted among the 90% untreatable if nothing better than K(> a placebo were known. Of course MDs are ethically bound to not knowingly K(> dispense placebos... K(> K(> -dk Hmmm... even *without* the ;-) at the end, I didn't think anyone was going to take the mathematics or statistics of my post seriously. I only hope that you had the same thing in mind with your post, otherwise you would need at least TWO ;-)'s at the end to help anyone understand your calculations above... --Ron--
A related question (which I haven't given that much serious thought to): at what lattitude is the average length of the day (averaged over the whole year) maximized? Is this function a constant= 12 hours? Is it truly symmetric about the equator? Or is there some discrepancy due to the fact that the orbit is elliptic (or maybe the difference is enough to change the temperature and make the seasons in the southern hemisphere more bitter, but is far too small to make a sizeable difference in daylight hours)? I want to know where to move.
Since your MOSFET is a 1972 vintage, it's probably not a very good one by today's standards. If you have an idea about its voltage and current ratings, e.g. 60VDC @ 6A, you can probably get away with replacing it with anything with better specs. Early MOSFETS had a gate-source voltage rating of approximately +/- 20 VDCmax, and they would usually turn completely "ON" at +10VDC. Otherwise, MOSFETS are not really mysterious -- they're more or less voltage controlled current sources. If the MOSFET in your circuit is used as an open-loop, voltage controlled current source, you may have to experiment with various gain-altering techniques.
Right. ROM numbers (easy to remember) 100 mph ~= 150 ft/sec. tom coradeschi <+> tcora@pica.army.mil
And some BDC in a Volvo comes careening off the freeway and lands on top of you in said pool. You can't win. jim
We are working on gas-solid adsorption air-con system for auto applications. In this kind of system, the energy for regenerating the adsorbent is from the exhaust gas. Anyone interested in this mail email me or follow up this thread, we may have a discussion on prospects of this technology. Max
I try to unsubscribe from this group by sending an email but that doesn't work. Could some one tell me the listserv address and command for me to unsubcribe ? I am leaving this Friday (30th April 93) and the mail box will overflow soon after that. Thanks ----------------------------------------------------------------- Philip Nguyen Research Engineer Flexible Manufacturing Research and Development Centre (FMR&D) McMaster University 1280 Main St. West Hamilton, On L8S 4L7 Voice: (416) 529-7070 ext 2902 or 7343 Fax: (416) 572-7944 e-mail: phil@flex.eng.mcmaster.ca
Geez, what happened? She got a ticket for driving too slow??? Oh, are you saying you're not an edu.breath, then? Okay.
One of those "morning, just getting the coffee in me" thoughts: Waving at other bikers makes more sense than just "Hey, how's it going, nice to meet you on the road, have a good ride" 1) If you're watching for other bikes to wave to, it means your attention is on the road, where it should be, and you're more likely to see cages.
Recently, my video monitor went dead, no picture, some low distorted sound. I didn't hear the tell-tale cracking that indicated HV at work, nor are the filaments at the far end of the tube glowing orange, just nothing. On examining the power board, I noticed the largest capacitor with a very bad bulge at the top. Naturally, I want to replace it, but I can't find any sources. The electrolytic capacitor is 330 mF at 250WV. It has radial leads, and is roughly 1 1/2 inches long, 1 1/8" wide. The dimensions are important since the whole board fits in a metal cage, leaving little room. Living in the Los Angeles area, I've been to numerous stores (Dow Radio, All Electronics, ITC Elect, Sandy's, Yale Elect) with empty hands. Can anyone suggest sources for high-voltage capacitors? Mail order is fine, although I'd rather check out a store to compare the can. I'm going to try a video electronics store, hopefully they'll have HV caps. (By the way, the monitor is a ATARI SC1224, Goldstar circuitry, Masushita tube. Anyone else had problems?) Thanks in advance, Rich K.
the 'Center for Policy Research' writes... Considering all the murders of innocent Israelis at the hands of Arab death merchants, I see nothing wrong with the advice. As usual, the bias of the 'Center for Policy Research' echoes through this newsgroup. Here we have an enraged Likudnik who is venting his spleen, and you portray it as if this is going to become policy. You don't say what the response to Matza's suggestion was. Do do not mention whether he was refering to terrorists caught in the act, which could be a clear cut case of self-defence. Would you care to elaborate on this, or was this all you wanted to say on the matter. Why don't you give up this 'Center for Policy Research' crap, and just post your biases without trying to legitimize them with a pompous name? A laudable precaution. Every single thing you post about Israel is posted to portray Israel as negatively as you can. Deliberate omissions are an integral part of the shtick. And it's not only the incidents that you do not mention, but even the stories you do post are fraught with omissions, which change the entire meaning. The absurdity of your respectable name cannot hide your bias. In your effort to portray Israel in an unfavorable light, you have accomplished nothing, except to prove that a respectable sounding label like the Center for Policy Research is nothing but a smoke screen for someone with a heavily biased attitude against Israel and the need to vent it. You
I want to be able to send a Pixmap from one client to the next. Along with this I want to send the Colormap and foreground and background pixel values. So far not a problem, I can do this with no problem. However, once I have the Pixmap id and the Colormap id, how do I go about telling the server that the second (receiving) client now wants to have associations with the two id's? TIA, John
Well, the MGB is currently in production for the English market, built by Rover. It now has a V8, improved suspention, and a slightly updated body. Too bad it's only available in GB and would set one of us back about $42,000+.
Hello, I am not sure if this is the right conference to ask this question, however, Here I go.. I am a commercial fisherman and I fell about 3 weeks ago down into the hold of the boat and broke or cracked a rib and wrenched and bruised my back and left arm. My question, I have been to a doctor and was told that it was best to do nothing and it would heal up with no long term effect, and indeed I am about 60 % better, however, the work I do is very hard and I am still not able to go back to work. The thing that worries me is the movement or "clunking" I feel and hear back there when I move certain ways... I heard some one talking about the rib they broke years ago and that it still bothers them.ÿ. any opinions? thanx and cheers
The European Space Agency has involvement with remote earth observation, and I presume this includes surveillance (optical etc.). So it's not just the US/USSR(ex) who are in the game. But what *is* the game? What can be done with space observation? The military functions of missile spotting, troop spotting etc. are well documented, but what about anything else? The biggest eg I can think of is to get a metal sensing sat over a paying country and scan their territory for precious metals. More importantly, if radar can spot water vapour (clouds), presumably a radar based sat will be capable of spotting rivers,open water and *underground water* from space. This would be a positive life saver for African or other drought affected countries. Implementing a clean water and irrigation program would be of imense benifit to such countries and should cut down mortalities considerably. So how about it? Is there a charity or government agency that would pay for a third world country to have their minerals and water deposits mapped? Or is this still sci-fi? Mail replies would be great. Thought for the day: Thermal energy needs water to make steam so sstick it in the ocean!
: Does anybody out there know how the hand held breathalyzer used : by our police works? I would like to hear about this and the more : general problem of detecting smells by machine. : : Thanks, William. : : williamb@ee.ubc.ca : From what I have read about these little gadgets, it works on a electrochemical galvanic principle. The sensing unit has a chemical matrix which produces an electrical voltage proportional to the amount of chemical compound it is designed for ... in this case I believe it is the Hydroxyl group??? I have also heard - not tested :-) - since common gasoline is also a member of this Hydroxyl group, it will also cause a failing breathalizer failure! Next time you get stopped for DUI, say you just siphoned gas from your neighbors car (you know..... the Oklahoma credit card) and chances are you won't get a DUI ticket!!!! Jerry Long
i'm sorry, as i have never heard of any of this. Guess they don't think it's important enough for a classroom, and i was going on what i've seen in pics.(some movies--real nice scource there, huh?) I just always recall thinking that GOOD roads of asphalt didn't come around til the Interstate Hiway Act, or whatever they called it(60's?), and that wood and cobblestone roads were fairly rare up through the depression, except in overpopulated places like England and US cities. Obviously netwisdom says i am wrong. i knew it was almost always done, but i knew of no reason that it might not be done the other way by DeSoto for their car. Seems like they had some other deviations from the norm too, at times :-)
Report them to your local BBB (Better Business Bureau).
Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Rights Violations in Azerbaijan #007 Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | | They grab Papa, carry him into one room, and Mamma and me into another. | | They put Mamma on the bed and start undressing her, beating her legs. | | They start tearing my clothes, right there, in front of Mamma. I don't | | remember where they went, what they did, or how much time passed. I had | | the feeling that they beat me on the head, on my body, and tore my | | clothes, all at the same time, I don't even know what I said. The | | atrocities started. I was savagely raped in that room. They argued among | | themselves who would go first. | | | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ DEPOSITION OF KARINE (KARINA) GRIGOREVNA M. [1] Born 1964 Secretary-Typist Azsantekmontazh Trust Sumgait Construction and Installation Administration Secretary of the SMU Komsomol Organization Resident at Building 17/33B, Apartment 15 Microdistrict No. 3 Sumgait [Azerbaijan] On the 27th my sister Marina and I went to the movies the seven o'clock show, at the theater that is across from the City Party Committee, about 50 yards away. The SK theater. They were showing an Argentinian film, "The Abyss." Before the film we noticed about 60 to 70 people standing near the podium at the City Party Committee, but they were silent, there's no conversation whatsoever, and we couldn't figure out what was going on. That is, we knew it was about Karabagh, but what it was exactly, what they were talking about, if someone gave a speech or not, we didn't know. We bought our tickets. There were 30 or 40 people in the theater. This was a very small number for that large movie theater. The film started. About 30 minutes later they stopped the film. A crowd burst in. About 60 people. They came up onto the stage. Well mostly they were young people, from 16 to 23 years old. They demanded that an Armenian woman come up onto the stage. They used foul language and said that they were going to show what Azerbaijanis were capable of, what they could do to Armenian girls. I thought that's what they meant because they had demanded a girl specifically. Marina and I were sitting together. I told her to move over, there were some Russian girls sitting nearby. So that if someone recognized me or if something happened, they would take me, and not Marina. It got quiet, 2 or 3 girls jumped up to run out, but the door was closed--it's only opened at the end of the show--and they returned to their seats. Everyone in the theater was looking at one another, Russians, Azerbaijanis, people of various nationalities. But no one reacted at all, no one in the auditorium made a sound. They were silent, looking at one another, and gradually started to leave. Some guy, a really fat one, says, "OK, we've scared them enough, let's leave." They leave slowly, pompously. It seemed to me that those people were not themselves. Either they had smoked a bunch of "anasha", or had taken something else, because they all looked beastly, like they were ready to tear anyone apart. Then it was all over, as though nothing had happened at all. The film started up again, it was one of those cheerful films which should have only brought pleasure, made you happy to be alive. We could barely sit to the end. So it had started at seven it was over by nine, and it was dark . . . Marina and I were walking home, Lenin Street, that's the center of town. Lenin Street was packed, just packed with young people. They were shouting, something about Karabagh and something about Armenians. We weren't especially listening, because the way we were feeling we didn't know if we were going to make it home or not, and just what had happened anyway? Public transportation wasn't running. Incidentally, when we came out of the theater we saw police, policemen standing there. The director of the movie theater was looking at the doors, because when they were leaving they had broken the glass, the doors there are basically all glass. Everything was broken. He stood there grief- stricken, but looking as though nothing really big had happened, like some naughty boys had just broken them quite by accident, with a slingshot. Well, since he looked more or less calm I decided that, nothing all that super serious had happened. We went out very slowly; we wanted to catch a bus, we live literally one stop away. We didn't want to go on foot, not because it was dark, but because something might happen. We flagged down a cab, but the driver didn't want to take us. We told him we live near the bus station, and he said he'd take us to the bus station and not a yard farther. I said, well, OK . . . So we got into the cab and managed to get there. Something incredible was happening at the bus station. There was a traffic jam. Public transportation was at a standstill and everyone was shouting "Ka-ra-bagh," they're not going to give up Karabagh. I go home and tell my family what's going on, and there's immediate panic in the house. Mamma says, what should we do? Like the end had come, they were going to come, kill us, that's it . . . Somehow we managed to cheer ourselves up: Nothing that bad could happen. Where are we living anyway, just what kind of social order do we have? Somehow we manage to calm Mamma down. And we went to bed. But no one could sleep. Everyone made as though nothing had happened. That was on Saturday. In short, the day went by. We didn't go anywhere and didn't call our relatives. No one did anything. Because . . . life goes on. That day I realized something was approaching, but what exactly, I couldn't guess. On the 28th everything was like it was supposed to be, we lived like we always had. There were five of us at home: Mamma, Papa and us, three sisters: Lyuda, Marina, and I. My sister Lyuda was in Yerevan at the time. We sat at home and no one went out. Later we learned that a demonstration had started that morning. It all started . . . They were smashing up stores. We were sitting at home and didn't know anything about it. Then a girlfriend of mine, Lyuda Zimogliad, came by at around three o'clock I think. We worked together, we did our apprenticeships together, she's a Russian girl. She said that something awful was happening in town. I asked, "Don't they want Armenians? Well what are they after, if they're already in that state?" She says, no, nothing like that, it's just a demonstration, but it's awful to watch it. Somehow, it feels like a war has broken out. Public transportation has been stopped . . . The cabs, the buses, well it's just a nightmare. Then Papa decides to go to the drugstore, my mother was having allergy problems at the time . . . He left the house and our neighbor, Aunt Vera, asked him, "Where are you going? Stop! There are such terrible things going on in the courtyard; aren't you afraid to go out?" Papa didn't know what she was talking about. She simply pushed him back into the entryway. He came home and told Mamma. Mamma said, "Well, if Aunt Vera was talking like that it means that something is really going on." But we didn't go see her, she's a Russian, she lives across from us. I had to see my friend out. Around five o'clock I tell Lyuda, "Ok, look, it's time for you to go, it's late already, I'll see you out." Mamma says, "You don't need to go, it's too late already, you can see what the situation in town is." So we decided to stay home. Dinner was ready. Mamma says, "Let her eat with us, then she can go." We sat down at the table. But no one was hungry, no one was in the mood, we just put everything out on the table to calm ourselves down, and make it appear that we're eating. We turned on the television, and the show "In Fairy-Tale Land" was coming on. We cleared the table. We hear some noise out in the courtyard. I go out on the balcony, but I can't see what's going on, because the noise is coming from the direction of the bus station, and there is a 9-story building in the way. There is mob of people . . . I can't figure out what's happening. They're shouting something, looking somewhere, I can't make out what is going on. I go down to a neighbor, she's an Azerbaijani; we've been friends of her family for about 25 years. I go down to look from their place. I see people shouting, looking at the 5-and 9-story buildings near the bus station. Just then soldiers set upon them, about 20 people, with clubs. The mob runs off in different directions. I even see several people from our building. They are looking and laughing . . . I decide that means it's not all that bad if they are laughing: it means they're not killing anyone. But now the crowd suddenly dashes toward the soldiers. One of the soldiers cannot manage to get away, they start stomping on him with their feet, everyone's kicking him . . . I become ill and go home, and explain in general terms that horrible things are going on out there . . . can't speak . . . Well, they've probably killed that soldier, the way that crowd is . . . If each of them kicked him just once . . . They took his club away from him and started to beat him with it. But it was far away and I couldn't see if he got up and left or not. I become terrified and go home and say, "Lyuda, don't go anywhere, stay at our place, because if you go out they could kill you or . . . " Then the crowd runs over closer toward our building and stands at the 12-story building and starts shouting something. We go out onto the balcony. All of our neighbors are also out on theirs, too. Everyone is standing, staring. The mob is shouting and about 5 minutes later comes running toward our building. As it turns out, at the 12-story building the Azerbaijani neighbors went down and kept them from coming in. There's only one entryway there, they could stop them. They all run up to our building. Mamma immediately starts closing the windows, afraid that they might throw stones. They have stones and they break the windows, all of them. There are very many people. We have a large courtyard, and it's packed with people. They spill up to the first floor so they don't crush each other. They crawl up on trees, posts, and garages. It's just a huge cloud of people. They break and burn the motorcycle of the Armenian Sergey Sargisian, from our building. We close the windows and immediately hear tramping in our entryway. They come up to our fifth floor with a tremendous din and roar. It's incomprehensible. Mamma told me later that they were shouting Father's name, "Grisha, open the door, we've come to kill you!," or something like that. I don't remember that, I was spaced out, kind of. Mamma says, "Into the bedroom, quickly!" In the bedroom we have two tall beds, part of our dowry; Mamma says, "Hide there, they probably won't come in there, they'll ask something, say something, and leave." She says, "We'll tell them that we live alone here." I can't imagine that my parents will stand out in the hall alone talking with some sort of beasts . . . I go to them and say that I'll stand together with them, I'll talk with them if they come, maybe I can find a common language with them, all the more so if they know me: I speak Azerbaijani more or less, and I can find out what they want. I told Marina and Lyuda to hide under the bed, and my sister Lyuda, I can't remember if I told her anything or not. Then . . . they open the door: it's like they blew on it and it broke and fell right into the hall. The crows bursts in and starts to shout: Get out of here, leave, vacate the apartment and go back to your Armenia; things like that. I tell them, "What has happened, speak calmly. One of you, tell me, calmly, what has happened." In Azerbaijani, they say, "Get out of the apartment, leave." I say, "OK. Go downstairs. We'll gather everything we need and leave the apartment." I realize that it is senseless to discuss any sort of rights with them, these are animals. They must be stopped. The ones standing in the doorway, the young guys, say, "There are old people and one girl with them. Too bad!" They take two or three steps back. It seems as though I have pacified them with our exchange. Then someone in the courtyard shouts, commanding them: "Don't you understand what you are saying? Kill them?" And that was it! That was all it took. They grab Papa, carry him into one room, and Mamma and me into another. They put Mamma on the bed and start undressing her, beating her legs. They start tearing my clothes, right there, in front of Mamma. I don't remember where they went, what they did, or how much time passed. I had the feeling that they beat me on the head, on my body, and tore my clothes, all at the same time, I don't even know what I said. The atrocities started. I was savagely raped in that room. They argued among themselves who would go first. Later, I remember, I came to. I don't know if I'm dead or alive. Someone comes in, someone tall, I think, clean-shaven, in an Eskimo dogskin coat, balding. He looks around at what's happening. At that instant everything stops. It seems to me that he is either their commander or . . . that somehow everything depends on him. He looks and says, "Well, we're done here." They are beating Mamma on the head. They break up the chairs and beat her with the chair legs . . . She loses consciousness, and they decide that she's dead. Papa . . . was out cold. They want to throw Lyuda off the balcony, but they can't get the window open. Apparently the window frames are stuck after the rain and the windows can't be opened. They leave her next to the window. She was thinking about being thrown out the window and passed out. She's not a real strong person anyway . . . He looks at me and sees that I'm saying something, that I'm still twitching. Well, I start saying the opposite of what I should be, which is humbling myself and pleading. I start shouting, cursing . . . they don't get any entreaty out of me. I already know that I'm dead, why would I humble myself before anyone? And he says that if that's what I think, since my tongue is so long . . . maybe he thinks that I still look quite appealing . . . In short, he commands that I be taken outside. I no longer saw or remembered what was happening to Marina and Lyuda, I don't know if they are alive or not. They take me outside. They are dragging me by my arms, by my legs. They are hitting me against the wall, the railings, something metal . . . While they are carrying me someone is biting me, someone else is pinching me . . .I don't even know. I think, my God, when will death come? If only it were sooner . . . Then . . . they carry me out, throw me near the entryway . . . and start kicking me. I lose consciousness . . . What happened after that, how many people there were, I don't remember. I come to after a while, I don't remember how long. A neighbor is bringing me clothing. I'm entirely covered with blood, she puts a dress on me. I remember that I said the same words over and over again: "Mamma, what happened, Mamma, what have they done to us, where are we, whose house are we at?" I can't make sense out of anything. There is a guy standing over me, I sort of know him, he served in Afghanistan, his name is Igor, he brought me indoors. When they all went to the third entryway and killed a person there, Igor gathered his courage, took me into his arms, and brought me to the neighbors', even though he's small-minded, he put himself at risk. Igor Agayev is Azerbaijani; he served in Afghanistan. There are three brothers. The older brother also served there, I think; now he's stationed here, on the border, in Armenia. Igor brought me to the neighbors', and then helped me come to my senses, saying, "Karina, I know you, calm down, I'm not one of them." How do I know who's who and what's what? I come to, and they clean me up. I was covered in blood. Then Papa . . . I saw Papa, I saw Mamma. And Marina, too . . . Igor was there when they dragged Marina and Lyuda out from under the bed . . . Marina . . . Lyuda said that she was Russian, they said, we'll let you go, we aren't touching the Russians, go. And while they are dragging Marina out she decides she's going to tell them she's Azerbaijani. Igor immediately grabs Marina's and Lyuda's hands, because he knows Marina, and knows that she is Armenian and is our sister, and takes her to the second floor to a neighbor's and starts pounding on the door so she will open up. She opens the door and Igor pushes them in there. So they survived. My sister Lyuda lost consciousness after the bandits started stealing things. While they were going downstairs, taking things downstairs, then coming back up again, Lyuda seized the opportunity and crawled under the bed and stayed there. Then, when she was herself again, she found a torn night shirt and put it on, and some sort of robe and went to a neighbor's on the fourth floor, the one whose apartment I had watched the crowd from, the friend of ours, and knocked on the door. The neighbor opened and said, "I'm not going to let you in the apartment because I'm afraid of them. But I'll give you some stockings and we'll leave the building." Lyuda says, "I'll stay at your place because of what's going on, they keep going up and down the stairs." It was just for a moment, just a moment in life, but the neighbor wouldn't consent. Lyuda came back to our place and lay under the bed . . . I came to. Mother was there. I can't remember my supervisor's telephone number, but something had to be done. Somehow I remembered and called, and he came to get us. He didn't have any idea what was going on. He thought we were simply afraid, he didn't know that they were killing us and that we had passed between life and death. He came and got us and took us to the police precinct. There they looked us over. I was having trouble walking, my lungs hurt badly, it was hard to breathe . . . My supervisor's name is Urshan Feyruzovich Mamedov. He's the head of our administration. They took us there. When we were leaving, I saw a great number of buses full of soldiers at the entrance to town. The buses were ordinary passenger buses. There were very many soldiers. We left around eleven, right after eleven. If these people could stop what was happening they could save a great many lives . . . Because the crowd was moving on, toward the school, and what was going on there . . . I think everyone know not only in Sumgait, not only in Yerevan. Because there they murdered them all one after the next, without stopping. After us. I think 14 people died in Microdistrict No. 3, and 10 to 12 of them were from Buildings 4, 5, and 6. In our building one person died, and one old woman died from Building 16, that's the building in front of ours. There young Azerbaijani men stopped the mob and wouldn't let it into their building. Incidentally, when we were at the neighbors', Marina called our relatives to warn them, so they would all know what was happening. I called a aunt in Microdistrict No. 5. They have three neighbors who are Armenians. I said, "Run quickly, I can't explain what's going on; hide, do what you can, just stay alive. Hide at Azerbaijanis', ones who won't give you away." At that moment three people came in, policemen. I think they were Azerbaijanis. I was in such awful condition, my face was completely distorted my lips were puffed up, there was blood, my eye was swollen, no one thought I would ever see anything out of that eye again . . . my forehead was badly cut, and one-half of my face was pushed out forward. No one would have thought that I would survive, get my normal appearance back, and be able to grasp anything at all. I started to scream at those people, why did you come, who sent you here, no one wants you here, haven't you killed people people yet, what are you doing here? One of the soldiers said, "Don't scream at us. We're Muslims, but we're not from the Sumgait police. They called in from Daghestan." So at that point the Daghestan police were there. When we got to the police precinct there were an awful lot of police there, there were soldiers, police with dogs, ambulances, firemen . . . I don't know, maybe they were waiting for people to bring them the goners and the seriously injured to treat them there in the police precinct. I don't know what they were there for. There were also doctors from Baku there. They examined Lyuda and me and said, "These women need to go to the Maternity Home, but we don't know what to do with the rest." So they took us, and I lost contact with my parents, my boss, everyone. My boss said, "Don't worry, I'll find you, no matter where you are, no matter what happens." We went to the hospital. There we were examined by a department head from the Sumgait Maternity Home, Pashayeva, I think her name was. She examined us. The ambulance was from Baku; I figured out that the Sumgait ambulances hadn't done anything, they didn't respond to any calls. People called and neither the police nor the ambulances showed any sign of life. That doctor looked me over and I could tell from her behavior that something very good had happened, for she became quite glad. I even thought to myself, "God, can it be that nothing all that bad is wrong?" She looks me over and says, "Now why are you suffering so? You don't know what your people have been doing, your people did even worse things." And I think, great, I have to deal with her . . . And I felt so bad, I thought, why don't I just die so as not to have to hear more stuff like this from people like her? Here I am in this condition and being told about something that our people did. I just didn't have the energy to say, "How could our people possibly be smart enough to think of something that yours haven't already done?" I stayed there. Then they brought in another woman, Ira B., she was married, and she was raped in her own apartment, too. There were three of us, Ira, Lyuda, and 1. The next morning they took Lyuda and Ira away. They didn't do anything to help us. This was in the old Maternity Home, in the combined block. They didn't do anything more than examine me, that was it. I didn't want any shots or tranquilizer, nothing. What shots could have calmed me down? I didn't even want to look at them. I lay in the ward. Either it just worked out that way or they did it on pur- pose, but I was alone. I was alone even though the wards were packed. That same evening a woman came by and asked me what was wrong with me, that my face was disfigured. She asked what had happened to me, and I said, "Better to ask your brother what happened, there's no point in asking me, your brother can better explain what happened." She fell into a faint. All the doctors threw themselves at her, and the doctor categorically forbade anyone to come into my ward. Then people from work came to see me, my boss, his daughter; they brought me clothing, because I was literally naked. The only thing I had on was a dress, but the woman who gave it to me was very short, and the dress was way up above my knees, and the woman orderly said, "I can't believe you put on such a short dress, who are you showing off your legs to here?" I went back to my ward thinking, just one more thing from something. People from work came and brought me something in a sack, apples, I think, three or four pounds, but I couldn't take them. I had become so weak that it was just embarrassing. I said that I couldn't take the apples, and really didn't have any appetite. No one had to bring me anything. Some woman took the sack . . . And, oh yes! . . . Then I heard that the head doctor tell a nurse that my medical history should be hidden or torn up completely so that no one would know that I was an Armenian, maybe they wouldn't figure it out from looking at me. So they must have been thinking that there would be some kind of attack, that something else would happen. That it would be worse. Or, perhaps, someone was outside on the street, I don't know. In any case, I didn't sleep a wink that night. The next morning they picked me up, a whole police detail, put me in a bus, and off we went. I didn't even know where they were taking me. They took me to the club where the troops were, the very one I was in that ill-fated evening. I got off the bus. Near the City Party Committee there were a great many troops, tanks, armored personnel carriers; the whole scene was terrible. I saw a few people I knew there, and that calmed me a little. I had already thought that I was the only one left. So there were five or six of us left in Sumgait after that night. I still didn't know what happened to my parents, they didn't come to see me in the hospital, and my boss told me that everything was fine. I didn't know whether to believe him or not. Maybe he was just trying to calm me down, maybe something happened on the way. Then I went to the club and saw a lot of people I knew. They all knew one another, they were all kissing each other and asking, "What happened, what went on?" Two days later they came to see me from work. They were there all the time. Each day they came, showed interest, and were constantly bringing me money. They did everything they could. Of course I'm most thankful to my boss, the only one of my colleagues who didn't lose his presence of mind and who didn't change his opinions, neither before, nor after, nor in the heat of the moment, no matter what happened. He constantly took an interest. A sincere interest, from the heart . . . Then, about two days later, the secretary of the Party Committee came, not from our Party organization, but from the First Trust, which ours is part of, Comrade Kerimov, a very important figure in our town. He made arrangements with the emergency medical personnel to take me away, because if I sat down by myself I couldn't get up or lie down again. There was something wrong with my lungs, it was hard to breathe. They examined me there several times, there I lay were several doctors, they all thought that . . . that it must just be from all the blows, I don't know. They didn't diagnose anything in particular. When I was in the Maternity Home I even asked . . . I made it a point of insisting that they take me to the trauma section because I felt so awful. There was no way something inside wasn't broken, my ribs . . . Well they took me there and took x-rays and said that everything was fine. There were emergency medical workers on duty in the club. The mother of one of Marina's friends was there. She was the head doctor at the Sumgait Children's Clinic. They had every kind of antifever agent in the world, which was exactly what I needed at that moment, I thought. I said that I was having great difficulty breathing, I couldn't seem to get enough air, something was wrong with me. They put tight bandages around my chest and waist. Later I overheard some people saying that I had been cut all over. I think they just saw me being all bandaged up and decided that my breasts and face had been cut . . . But I wasn't cut. They took us to the Khimik boarding house. We lived there a long time. Soon appeared representatives . . . They were agitating. At first people would not talk to them, and drove them off. One of the Armenian women shouted, "We demand that Seidov come!" The response was, "It's Seidov who sent us." Seidov is the Chairman of the Azerbaijani Council of Ministers. The woman said, "We'll only see Seidov's daughter, have her come here, we'll do the same things to her that they did to our daughters, and then we'll deal with you agitators." And so on. More of them said, "Have Seidov himself come." This went on day in, day out. The agitators kept coming and coming, this drove us out of our wits. Then people gradually started departing for Yerevan because they realized it was senseless to stay. Everything got on our nerves: The smell, the small children. There were children at the SK club, children who had literally just come out of the Maternity Home. What were they doing in a club that didn't even have running water all the time? At first we had to pay to eat there. They even overcharged us, as it turned out. On the second day someone told us that they would bring us food for free. The children were ill. Everything stank there. Well imagine about 3,000 people in a small movie theater with seating for no more than 500. You couldn't sit or lie down, it was impossible to even move. The stench was awful. Even the smallest infants took ill overnight there. I heard that they were arriving seriously ill in Yerevan, the infants. They have to be washed, they have to be bathed, not to mention that we, the adults, were ill and needed care. People were fainting right and left. I just don't know, everyone was crying, everyone . . . Only the young people, the men, somehow managed to keep it together. But the women were in a constant state of panic. It seemed to everyone that they would come any minute and kill and stab. It seemed clear that we had been gathered together purposely, like during the war, so that they could burn the movie theater and there wouldn't be a single Armenian left. Then people went up to the attic. I didn't see them, I only heard them, because I was lying down and couldn't get up. I lay right on the stage, we had some room there. Apparently they caught two people with either oil or gas. I think they wanted to burn the theater. Maybe someone saw them, I didn't. I was in no condition to open my eyes. Everyone was suspicious of everyone else. They would ask, "Aren't you an Azerbaijani? I think I saw you somewhere, I think you're an Azerbaijani." They led out all the men and started letting them back in by checking their passports, relatives might be covering for each other. Half of the people did not have any documents. There were people who had run out of their homes in nothing but a pair of pants and slippers, or wearing just a shirt, not like they should have, with their IDs. So on the 28th, on Sunday, I think, the police did nothing to help us. On Monday everything resumed where it had left off on Block 41A. They didn't spare a soul there: not children, not pregnant women, nobody. They killed, they burned, they hacked with axes, just everything possible. They murdered the Melkumian family whom I knew, my mother worked with them. Their daughter- in-law went to school with my older sister. They were brutally murdered. Only the two daughters-in-law survived. By a miracle one was able to save herself, she ran away, the neighbors wouldn't take her in, so she ran about the building until she found refuge. She was pregnant and had two small children. This all continued on Monday in Block 41A, on the 29th, when the troops were already in the city. They murdered people, they overturned automobiles, and they burned entire families. They say they didn't even know for sure if the people were Armenians or not. I heard that the Lezgins suffered, too. I'm not sure myself, I didn't see any Lezgins who had been injured. They burned cars so it's very difficult now to say exactly who died and who didn't. It was very difficult to identify the corpses, or rather, what remained of the corpses after they were doused in gasoline and burned . . . it's all very hard to imagine, of course I heard that many people disappeared without a trace, from the BTZ plant two people, including a woman who worked the night shift, Aunt Razmella, who also lived in Microdistrict 3. They were stopping buses between Baku and Sumgait. In the evening people who had been visiting Baku were returning to Sumgait, and people from Baku were going home from Sumgait, and there were students, too. They were simply savagely murdered. They were stopping the buses, the drivers immediately did what they were told because there was just no other way to deal with that hoard of brutally minded people. They stopped the buses, dragged the Armenians out and killed them on the spot. I didn't see it myself, but I heard that they put them all in a pile so as to burn them. Later it was hard to discern from the corpses, well you can't call them corpses, you had to figure out from the ashes who it was. l heard that two fellows saved two women, one a student, Ira G., if I'm not mistaken. She was in the hospital a long time after that, and she still can't figure out who saved her. She was also brutally raped and beaten and thrown onto a pile of corpses. The fellow pulled her out of that whole pile of corpses, put his coat on her, took her into his arms, and carried her to the city. I still can't imagine how he managed to do that. I heard that from Engels Grigorian. He knows her, apparently. Well a lot of people went to that hospital anyway. She was in the hospital and singing a song in Armenian, and they wrote the words down, and, I think he still has that piece of paper, because he says that a lot of people now have that song, the one she sang in the hospital where she lay in such bad shape. They couldn't find the guy who saved her. He left her in someone's apartment and called the ambulance, she was in such awful shape that, probably, like me, she couldn't remember anyone's face. I think that I knew one of the people who broke into our house, maybe I had talked with him once. But I received so many blows everything was just knocked out of my head. I can't remember to this day who he was. Then, it seems, I saw the Secretary of the Directorate's Party organization, where Marina works. She goes to school and works, she goes to night school at AZI, and works by day at the Khimzashchita Construction and Installation Administration. I'm the Secretary of the Komsomol organization at our administration and often met with the secretaries of Party and Komsomol organizations. We had joint meetings. I know them all, I've even talked with them, and he, I know, is from Armenia. An Azerbaijani, but from Armenia. It became obvious that many of those people were Azerbaijanis born in Armenia. They took me to various police stations, to the police precinct, and to the Procuracy, because the USSR Procuracy got involved in the case, and I iden- tified the photographs of people who I could more or less recognize. They showed me the people who were in our apartment, they're working on our case, but I can't even recognize them, although it was proved that they were the ones, they're processing it somehow. They tell me that they know that someone held me by the arm and someone else held me by the leg when they were dragging me. There was someone else in our apartment who did not even touch me, he just stole a blanket and an earring or something like that. All these people, all of them, as much as I've heard about them and seen them, they were all from Kafan. The Secretary of the Party organization is named Najaf, Najaf Rzayev. He was there when everything started. It must have been him because I didn't recognize anyone else in the crowd whom I knew besides him. All the more since I told him, "Listen, you do something, because you know me." He turned away and went toward the bedroom, where Marina was. Well you couldn't see Marina anyway. There was such a noisy confusion of people that you couldn't make out anyone. All of it flew right out of my head, and then gradually I became myself again, at the City Party Committee . . . There were military people there. I told them what went on, and they wrote it all down. I told them his name. On March 8 the Secretary of our First Trust Party organization, the one we're part of, came to see us, his name is Najaf Rzayev. I tell Mamma, "If he's here despite the fact that I gave his name, it means that either his alibi has been confirmed or, probably, that they think I'm crazy, not responsible for my words." He said, "What did they do to you, how awful, myself, I hid an Armenian family." Then after some time goes by he comes back again and says something entirely different: "I wasn't at home, my family and I went to Baku." I said, "Marina, what is he saying? He said something totally different before." After that I didn't go to see our Procurator, our case is being handled by a procurator from Voronezh, Fedorov by name. Fedorov told me that Rzayev's case had just gotten to him, and there were so names involved. What are they doing with Rzayev? Did he prove his alibi or not? They just think that since I was hit in the head I can't say anything for sure, whether it was him or not. It will be an insult if he was in our apartment and doesn't have to pay for it, but at the same time I'm afraid to say I'm a hundred percent sure that it was he. Because no mat- ter who I name, they tell me, no, you're wrong, he didn't do that, that one wasn't there. All the faces have gotten mixed up in my mind. Who did what exactly I can't say. When they took me outside there was a whole crowd there, but I didn't see it, because I had my eyes closed all the time. It seemed to me that I always got it because of my eyes, people were always hassling me, for some reason it always seemed to me that my eyes are responsible. When they were beating my face I thought they were trying to put my eyes out. So I had my eyes closed, they took me outside and started to beat me. A young guy, 22, held my arms, he works at the BTZ plant. And right nearby, across the road from us, Block 41, is where all this was going on. Right across the road from us. The BTZ dormitory is over there, that's where he lives. Now he's in custody, they even have proved, as far as I know, that it was he who killed Shurik Gambarian, the clarinet player from the third entryway of our building. One person in our building was killed, it was that man. A guy comes by who shared a room with the guy who was holding me. He saw that he was holding me by the arms and that he was beating me, but he didn't come over, he just looked and then went into the dormitory. A while after it was all over, people started making announcements in town saying that investigators had been summoned. That guy went and told them everything. Now they've caught him, everything's been proved. Now, evidently, they've been beating him, I don't know what they're doing with them over there, but he himself said that he was working the night shift at the plant. Some young guy came to the plant and said, "Everyone who wants to kill Armenians come to the bus station on Saturday at ten." That was it. He said, the ones who wanted to, went. This was at the BTZ plant, during the night shift, probably, late Friday night. It was at night, they were at the sauna together. And he said, what do you mean, do you understand what you are saying? The others were silent, probably, in their hearts they were thinking, I'm going to go. But they didn't say anything to one another. He said that he thought it important to to go, because he had heard a lot about what had happened in Kafan, that they had killed their Azerbaijani sisters, their mothers, burned villages, and all of that. That guy was also born in Kafan. That is certain. And Marina says that the Secretary of the Party organization is from Armenia, too. from I've participated in the investigation a couple of times. I'm satisfied with them thus far. They summoned us and asked about what happened, and every word I said was recorded. I met some guy there . . . By the way, he was an Armenian. I said that he was in our apartment, but what he did, I don't know. His last name was Grigorian, Eduard Grigorian. He s from Sumgait, from Microdistrict 1. He was sentenced I think, to five years, not his first time. His mother is Russian. I met with him at the KGB in Baku, at the Azerbaijani KGB. They took us there and showed me photographs. There were so many photographs, I think they even photographed those people who were caught at curfew, and I've got them all confused. I say, the face was about like this, the guy in the white coat with the red clasps. But he could take that coat off and burn it somewhere, and it would be like looking for a needle in a haystack. Well. This guy, Grigorian, I said, he was in our apartment, but he is so light-complected that he looks like a Lezgin. I don't know what he did, I can't remember. Maybe he beat me or raped me. But he was in our apartment. At the KGB he started asking me, pleading with me, there's no need for this, all this stuff, look me in the eyes, you're like a sister to me. I took a look at him and thought, "My God, Heaven forbid that I should have a brother like you." But they were satisfied with my responses, because I said everything without great certainty. I was there with Mamma. Then Lyuda came in, but when she came in she got sick immediately. She wanted to kill him, she crawled over the table at him. She recognized him. When she came to, Lyuda was lying on the balcony, the mob threw her there and all of them ran into the bedroom. We had all kinds of boxes with dishes in them, the dowries for all three sisters. They stole everything in the apartment, leaving only small things. At that moment Lyuda came to and started remembering everything. Well, seeing the faces, hearing the voices . . . Two people were saying they could burn the apartment. Another says, why burn the apartment when I've got three kids and no place to live. So this guy was in temporary housing, he didn't have anywhere to live, he was from Sumgait. They were sure that they would get the apartment. Besides, the neighbors were Azerbaijani. Why should they burn the apartment, they might burn Azerbaijanis. That's what they said. How did they know there were Azerbaijanis there, if they just picked a place, thinking that Armenians lived there? We have a list of the residents for our part of the building, our name is in there, but how could they know that Azerbaijanis lived on the other side of the wall from us? So they didn't set fire to our apartment. I don't know, I was in such bad shape that if all of it had come to a halt when I was outside, if someone had asked me what was happening, I would have said that a civil war was going on. Well, maybe not civil . . . but probably civil, because when they were beating me I opened my eyes and saw that all the neighbors were standing on their balconies and watching, like at a free horror film. So a civil war was going on, and only the Armenians were being fought. If it were a world war or something like that, they would have been fighting everyone. But they only fought us. Then I met some women from our building, some Azerbaijanis. They are crying, they tell me, "Karina, we saw all of it, how could it happen?" They're asking me! Well I just don't know what to call it if a normal girl can stand there and watch what happened to me. I think that if it were the other way around either I wouldn't have been able to take it, or I would have tried to avert it, like that one Azerbaijani woman did in front of our building. A woman lives there, an awful, dissipated woman, if you can call her a woman, the dissipated life she leads. Two Armenian families live there, in her part of the building. She came out on the balcony and saw what was happening to me and started to scream and curse. She came down to the entryway and said, "You'll come in this entryway over my dead body." So not one of them took it in his head to go in that entryway. Some folks were saying that those people were so out of control that they didn't even know what they were doing. I don't think that's true. They knew very well what they were doing if they didn't even lift a hand against that woman. They couldn't have cared less about her, but the fact that she was an Azerbaijani stopped them. They were just beasts, they had smoked so much. When they came to our place they were all chewing something. I noticed: Everyone who came into the apartment was chewing something. I think, my God, maybe I just think that? Maybe I'm losing my mind? But no, they're all chewing something. Maybe it is some kind of drug, it must be, because . . . At first glance they all seemed to be such normal people, young, clean-shaven, looking exactly as if they had come to some sort of celebration. But they were shouting something. They didn't talk, they shouted, as though there were deaf people there. They screamed and screamed: "Yeah, killing, killing, we're killing the Armenians!" Only they didn't shout "kill," they shouted "gurun ermianlary." Gurun literally means "kill," or "destroy." That's how it was! I'll continue. We hid in a captain's apartment, he's an Azerbaijani, his wife is a Tatar. We were sitting in their apartment, their kids were out in the yard. Their kids knew a whole lot. This was in our part of the building, on the third floor. When Mamma came to and couldn't find Lyuda she took Papa's hand, this was while the looters were stealing things, but they didn't pay attention because they were stealing things. Apparently they had already ceased killing and switched to stealing. Mamma found the courage to . . . A boy said to my mother "Where's the gold?" Mamma said he must have been 12 to 14 years old. He even looked Russian, he was so fair-skinned. But the Azerbaijanis from Armenia are fair-skinned. I noticed they were all on the fair side. He shouted, they were all smashing things, and he asks Mamma where the gold is. We kept our gold in the wardrobe with our important papers. In a little black bag, we kept everything in there. Mamma doesn't really like to wear gold. She probably never even wore those things from the time they were bought for her. They took everything that was lying on the cheval glass. Mamma thinks that the gold saved us. Because they threw themselves at the gold, and Mamma grabbed Papa, who was trying to breathe. They had closed his mouth, bound his hands, and put a pillow and a chair on his face . . . They had shoved something into his mouth so he would suffocate. Mamma grabbed him and tore all that stuff off . . . He had something in his mouth, he was having trouble breathing, his nose was filled with blood. Mamma grabbed him and started running from the fifth down to the first floor because no one wanted to open their doors to them. Mamma said that by accident, completely by accident that person opened his door, he was sleeping, and said, half-awake, "What's happened?" He sees that they are bloody. Mamma said, "At least go and find out what's happening to my daughters, even if they've burned them or murdered them, at least bring the corpses." He went looking for us. At that moment Lyuda was under the bed. She says that after they left it seemed that someone was calling her name. When he quietly called her she couldn't get out from under the bed. She wanted to get out and was calling softly. She thought she was shouting, but in fact she was either silent or was only talking to herself, it just seemed to her that she was shouting. When she got out from under the bed everyone was gone. And again . . . She thought that she had lost her mind. I'll never leave here, never! To hell with it! It just seems that way to me, I'll come to eventually. But then, when everything had settled down, stopped, that mall brought Lyuda down, and Igor carried me in from outside. Or first I was brought in, then Lyuda, I don't remember what order it happened in. And Mamma said, "Listen, they're all running around down there, shouting something or other, and running toward the other building." It had more or less calmed down where we were. Who's dead, who's alive, we don't know. I tried to call my girlfriend. I had basically come to. Mamma says, "Listen; let's go upstairs, at least get a mattress or something. We don't know how long we'll be here. Maybe they didn't burn everything." I don't get it, all women have that feeling, they want to get something from their homes, maybe not everything was taken? I tell Mamma, "Mamma, what do you need any of that for? To hell with it! We're alive, forget the rest of it, all of it!" She says, "No, let's go get at least something. Maybe we'll leave here, spend the night at someone else's." Mamma went upstairs, and their little boy, their son Alik, was standing on the lookout. lIe was standing there to see if they were coming. They only managed to run up there and grab something one time. He shouts, "Come back, they're coming!" They didn't have enough time to get a lot, mattresses from one apartment, a blanket from another . . . Mamma got my knitting . . . Someone managed to grab our old things, the ones we never wore, out of the hall . . . Someone took Father's old coveralls. The neighbor, his wife, Mamma and Papa . . . Marina went with them. I was in no condition to leave. Neither was Lyuda. We just sat. They ran out and we closed the door and just then we hear that the mob is on its way toward our place upstairs, they're dragging something again. They were going toward the other building, maybe over by the school, or . . . There was an unfinished building over there, people said they were going toward the basement or the unfinished building, they could gradually carry everything over there. Then things more or less calmed down. I tried to call my boss. Later there was more noise. We were on the third floor, in a one-bedroom apartment, and a woman lives in the one-bedroom place on the second floor, Asya Dallakian. She's an old woman, retired. She wasn't at home, at that time she was usually in the country, she has a married daughter there, and her grandson is in the army. She is only very rarely in town; she gets her retirement money and the apartment is essentially vacant. They started pounding on her door and broke it down. She had two or three beds in there, something like that, she's a 60-to 70-year-old woman who really does not even live there. Probably she had some pots, a couple of metal bed frames and mattresses, and a television. When her grandson came she bought a television. They started wrecking everything. I started getting sick again. I think, "My God, what is going on around here? When will this end?" We turned off the lights and sat. As it turns out the people who weren't afraid, the ones who knew what was going on, knew not to turn off the lights. We didn't know, but they didn't come to where we were all the same. They all knew very well that he was a captain. He went out and closed the door, and we sat in his apartment. His last name was Kasumov. He's an exserviceman, retired, works up at the fire station at some plant or other. He went out and stood at his door. They tell him, "Comrade Captain, don't worry, we won't harm you, you're one of us." He went upstairs, and they say, "Aren't you taking anything from this apartment?" He says, "I don't need anything." And the women who were standing in the yard . . . we have a basement, full of water . . . the women who were standing in the yard saw. Those guys, they left everything they stole on the first floor and ran upstairs again. The women threw everything they had time to into the basement, to save our property. Some things were left: dirty pillows, two or three other things and a rug. A guy came downstairs, really mad, and he says, "Where's the rug? I just put it right here!" They tell him, "Some guy came and took it and went off toward the school." He ran off in that direction. Oh! I forgot the most important point. When Igor picked me up in his arms, there were women standing there who saw everything that was going on. They just didn't tell me about it for a long time. The wife of that military man, she didn't want to kill my spirit, I was already dead enough. Later she told me, that after they murdered Uncle Shurik in the third entryway one of them, the ringleader, apparently a young man, said, "Where's the girl who was here?" And he became furious. The woman tells him, "She came to . . . " She didn't know what to say: Think something up? Someone carried her off? Then they would comb the whole house and find me and our whole family. So the woman says, "She came to and went to the basement." Now, our basement is full of water. So the whole mob dashes off to the basement to look for me or my corpse. They took flashlights; they were up to their waists in water, water which had been standing there for years, and soot, and fuel oil. They climbed down in there to get me. Then one of them said, "There's so much water down there, she probably walked and walked and then passed out and died. She met her death in the basement. That's it, we can leave, no problem!" I didn't know that, and when I was told, I felt worse. Two times worse. A lot worse! So they didn't just want to pound me flat, something more awful was awaiting me . . . After that we of course didn't want to live in Sumgait any longer. We really didn't want to go back to our apartment. When we moved, I went up there and started to quiver and shake all over, because I started remembering it all. Although the neighbors all sobbed, it was all . . . so cheap . . . The people who sat in their apartments and didn't help us at a time like that. I think that they could have helped! I don't think that they were obligated to, but they could have helped us! Because that one woman was able to stop that whole brutal crowd by herself. That means they could have, too. It would have been enough foe one man or women to say, What do you think you're doing?" That's all! That would have done it. There were 60 apartments in our building. Not one person said it! When I was lying on the ground and all those people were standing on their balconies I didn't hear anyone's voice, no one said what are you doing, leave her alone . . . Mamma even told one of the neighbor women that if it had been an Azerbaijani woman in my place they would have dropped a bomb if it would have killed even one Armenian. They would have stood up for one of their own. True, they say that our neighbor from the fourth entryway, an old/ sick woman tried to stop the pogrom. The Azerbaijanis have a custom: if a woman takes her scarf and throws it on the ground, the men are supposed to stop immediately. The old woman from the fourth entryway did that, but they stomped her scarf into the ground, pushed her off to the side, and said, "If you want to go on living, you'll disappear into your apartment." So she left. That trick didn't work on them. Even the neighbors who helped us move told me, OK, fine, calm down, forget that it happened. I said I'd only forget it if I told them right then that it had happened to their daughter--and if that didn't have any effect on them, then I would forget everything, too. Imagine that it happened to your sister. And no one did anything. Anything. April 25, 1988 Yerevan - - - reference - - - [1] _The Sumgait Tragedy; Pogroms against Armenians in Soviet Azerbaijan, Volume I, Eyewitness Accounts_, edited by Samuel Shahmuradian, forward by Yelena Bonner, 1990, published by Aristide D. Caratzas, NY, pages 93-109
Unfortunately, elections can, and are, bought. Promise the voters money, and they will vote for you. Same here. Convicted felons may not legally purchase firearms. That you know of. While I lived in the DBR, a gang robbed a joint US Army/Bundewehr armoury and got several hundred M-16s, ammunition, handguns and some explosives. When I left two years later, there were no clues. Who uses them is the problem. Crime, in the U.S., is "no big deal" if you are the criminal. How about 5 years for murder. Credit for time served (in jail, waiting for trial) and you are out in 12 months, worst case. If we would put criminals, especially violent ones, in the slam for true sentences, crime would drop. Instead, we reward them for being good and let them out early, very early. Serbs, Croats and Muslims have been killing each other almost since before the invention of guns. Old women are throwing stones at UN trucks. This is a hatred that goes beyond reason. Yes, the problem is the user. Question back (since you are one of the rational ones): If all gun crime were to stop, would you support dropping all gun controls? They did not believe, from experience, that the "police" (including National Guard) could/would protect them. Unless you want to argue that a human being does not have a right to protect him/herself, they did the right thing. What would you suggest as a defense against a mob throwing bottles and rocks, and also likely armed with stolen firearms? Criminals would move to Scandinavia??? :-) The average criminal would look for a less hazardous job, and the rest would likely be buried at county expense. Personally, I criticize the fools who send money to the IRA to "make Ireland free". Of course, this is the last thing the IRA wants, because they lose power if England pulls out. But that's for another group. The U.S. has roughly 20 times the major sporting events as the U.K.. How many riots did we have at sporting events last year (off the playing field)? Hooligan is a word never used when reffering to sports fans here. I guess that's where the different cultures thing comes in. Yes. The question is, is the problem one of too many guns (mostly from the army) or not enough (nonSerbians can not defend themselves. But disarming responsible gun owners is not the solution. Yet, that is exactly what HCI is proposing.
You totally forgot the original post that you posted Allen. In that post you stated that the "wrap" was on top of and in addition to any overhead. Geez in this post you finally admit that this is not true. Come your little ol buns down here and you will find out who is doing what and who is working on integration. This is simply an ad hominum attack and you know it. Of course there is a fee. It is for administration. Geez Allen any organization has costs but there is a heck of a difference in legitimate costs, such as libraries and other things that must be there to support a program and "wrap" as you originally stated it.You stated that wrap was on top of all of the overhead which a couple of sentences down you say is not true. Which is it Allen? As you have posted on this subject Allen, you state that wrap is over and above overhead and is a seperate charge. You admit here that this is wrong. Nasa has a line item budget every year. I have seen it Allen. Get some numbers from that detailed NASA budget and dig out the wrap numbers and then howl to high heaven about it. Until you do that you are barking in the wind. Integration could be done better at the centers. Apollo integration was done here at Msfc and that did not turn out so bad. The philosophy of Reston is totally wrong Allen. There you have a bunch of people who are completely removed from the work that they are trying to oversee. There is no way that will ever work. It has never worked in any large scale project that it was ever tried on. Could you imagine a Reston like set up for Apollo? Oh you are full of it Allen on this one. I agree that JSC screwed up big. They should be responsible for that screw up and the people that caused it replaced. To make a stupid statement like that just shows how deep your bias goes. Come to MSFC for a couple of weeks and you will find out just how wrong you really are. Maybe not, people like you believe exactly what they want to believe no matter what the facts are contrary to it. I agree that integration is the single most important part of a successful large scale effort. What I completly disagree with is seperating that integration function from the people that are doing the work. It is called leadership Allen. That is what made Apollo work. Final responsibility for the success of Apollo was held by less than 50 people. That is leadership and responsibility. There is neither when you have any organization set up as Reston is. You could take the same people and move them to JSC or MSFC and they could do a much better job. Why did it take a year for Reston to finally say something about the problem? If they were on site and part of the process then the problem would have never gotten out of hand in the first place. There is one heck of a lot I do not know Allen, but one thing I do know is that for a project to be successful you must have leadership. I remember all of the turn over at Reston that kept SSF program in shambles for years do you? It is lack of responsibility and leadership that is the programs problem. Lack of leadership from the White House, Congress and at Reston. Nasa is only a symptom of a greater national problem. You are so narrowly focused in your efforts that you do not see this. No, I am saying that if they were located at JSC it never would have happened in the first place. I have the time to reitereate one more timet that if the leadership that is at reston was on site at JSC the problem never would have happened, totally ignoring the lack of leadership of congress. This many headed hydra that has grown up at NASA is the true problem of the Agency and to try to change the question to suit you and your bias is only indicative of your position.
There has been NO hard info provided about MSG making people ill. That's the point, after all. That's because these "peer-reviewed" studies are not addressing the effects of MSG in people, they're looking at animal models. You can't walk away from this and start ranting about gloom and doom as if there were any documented deleterious health effects demonstrated in humans. Note that I wouldn't have any argument with a statement like "noting that animal administration has pro- duced the following [blah, blah], we must be careful about its use in humans." This is precisely NOT what you said. It most certainly is for neurotoxicology. You know, studies of glutamate involve more than "food science". So, point us to the studies in humans, please. I'm familiar with the literature, and I've never seen any which relate at all to Olney's work in animals and the effects of glutamate on neurons. Well, actually, they HAVE to tolerate some phenylalanine; it's a essential amino acid. They just try to get as little as is healthy without producing dangerous levels of phenylalanine and its metabolites in the blood. Goodness, I'm not saying that it's good to feed infants a lot of glutamate-supplemented foods. It's just that this "projected safety margin" is a construct derived from animal models and given that, you can "prove" anything you like. We're talking prudent policy in infant nutrition here, yet you're misrepresenting it as received wisdom. You mean "asserting". You're being intellectually dishonest (or just plain confused), because you're conflating reports which do not necessarily have anything to do with each other. Olney's reports would argue a potential for problems in human infants, but that's not to say that this says anything whatsoever about the use of MSG in most foods, nor does he provide any studies in humans which indicate any deleterious effects (for obvious reasons.) It says nothing about MSG's contribtion to the phenomenon of the "Chinese Restaurant Syndrome". It says nothing about the frequent inability to replicate anecdotal reports of MSG sensitivity in the lab. Probably one of the dumber remarks you've made.
Anas Omran has claimed that, "the Israelis used to arrest, and sometime to kill some of these neutral reporters." The assertion by Anas Omran is, of course, a total fabrication. If there is an once of truth iin it, I'm sure Anas Omran can document such a sad and despicable event. Otherwise we may assume that it is another piece of anti-Israel bullshit posted by someone whose family does not know how to teach their children to tell the truth. If Omran would care to retract this 'error' I would be glad to retract the accusation that he is a liar. If he can document such a claim, I would again be glad to apologize for calling him a liar. Failing to do either of these would certainly show what a liar he is.
What do you mean "more comfortable putting it up to." That seems a bit hard to evaluate. At least for me it is. Stare straight Point with both hands together and clasp so that only the pointer fingers are pointing straight forward to a a spot on the wall about eight feet away. First stare at the spot with both eyes open. Now close your left eye. Now open your left eye. Now close your right eye. now open your right eye. If the image jumped more when you closed your right eye, you are right eye dominant. If the image jumped more when you closed your left eye, you are left eye dominant.
I was looking at the amps diagram for Sony 1090/2090 receivers, and I was amazed to find a difference between the US and Canadian model on the capacitor(s) that hangs off the output to the speakers: ------\/\/\----- to speaker (identical both models from amp ---------------| (idnetical both models) > < 10 > | ----- | | 0.022 --- --- Canadian model only! US model --- --- 0.047 and world-wide | | model only. | --- Candian model only! | --- 0.047 | | ----------- gound The board itself is also identical, with room for all three caps. The US/Can versions is clearly indicated in both places. How does that make sense? 0.047/2 is 0.0235, essentially 0.022 for caps (there are just standard caps, no special W/type/precision).
Posted by Cathy Smith for L. Neil Smith WEIRD SCIENCE Everyone knows how to tell when a politician is lying: his lips move. What may not be equally obvious is that there are politicians and then there are politicians -- and that the phrase "political science" is subject to more than one interpretation. Years ago, we heard how "scientists" were worried that a new Ice Age might be coming, and later on that "nuclear winter" -- smoke and dust thrown into the atmosphere by full-scale international unpleasantness -- was a possibility. Something like that may even have killed the dinosaurs. What we didn't hear was that no actual data supported any of this, that real-world events (the burning of Kuwaiti oil fields) tended to discredit it, that mostly it was propaganda meant to weaken values that made America the most successful culture in history, and that the dinosaurs probably died of something like the Plague when continents drifted together, exposing them to new germs. We miss a lot like this, unless we listen closely. Prince William Sound, site of the famous oil spill, and Mount St. Helen's weren't supposed to recover from their respective disasters for at least 100 years. That turned out not to be true, although you'd never know it from watching network nightly news or CNN. It doesn't fit their agenda to inform us that the earth is vast and resilient, and that nature is rougher on herself than we could ever be. But for once, the media aren't entirely to blame. As ignorant of science as they are of everything, they trust "scientists" to unscrew the inscrutable. The trouble is that today's "scientists" have agendas of their own. Nobody in government, that wellspring of scientific wherewithal, is going to offer grants to an investigator who states truthfully that there is no respectable evidence for "global warming". The money and power for bureaucrats and politicians lie in mass transit, and they hate the automobile -- blamed as a major cause of the mythical crisis -- as a source of privacy and freedom they find intolerable. The same appears true of "acid rain", a deliberate hoax cooked up by the Environmental Protection Agency (which hates private industrial capitalism almost as much as it does your car) and foisted on real scientists through trickery which has depended on specialists in different fields not talking to each other much. The list goes on, always with a common, disreputable thread. "Ozone depletion", for which evidence is even more suspect and contradictory than for acid rain or global warming, is no more than a last, desperate attempt to indict private capitalism in an era when state central planning and the command economy have failed and can only find this final, withered leg to teeter on. Decades of anti-nuclear alarmism, resting on foundations of myth and panic-mongering, have failed to erase the fact that nuclear power is the safest, cleanest, most efficient source of energy known to mankind -- and more to the point, that the greater amount of energy there is available to any individual in society, the freer that individual -- and his society -- become. Honest studies on the effects of individual gun ownership and self-defense on crime -- conducted by investigators who began as ideological opponents to those concepts, but which show massive reductions in the latter to be the result of the former -- have been suppressed, most recently by the California state government. And what the media didn't say about recent EPA "discoveries" on the effect of "secondhand smoking" is that, although some harm to non- smokers may have been detected, it was less (by an order or two of magnitude) than that associated with frying bacon a couple times a week or keeping a pet bird. It's enough to make you wonder whether there was ever anything to the claim that smoking causes cancer. That, of course, is the real threat represented by politically correct science. The world is a dangerous place. It would be nice to know the hazards. I've never believed smoking to be a healthy practice, but, given a lack of credibility on the part of today's science, how am I to decide what to do about it? Nicotine is highly addictive, to that much I can attest from experience. Yet the stress of quitting may be riskier than to continue. There isn't any way to tell, thanks to the corrupting influence of government money on the scientific establishment. Two centuries ago, the Founding Fathers spared us certain agonies to which every other nation in the world has been subject at one time or another, by creating a legal barrier between politics and religion. Each time some short-sighted individual or group has tried to lower the barrier (most recently over the issue of abortion), blood -- real human blood, hot and smoking in the street -- has wound up being shed. Real human blood is being shed over scientific issues, as people's lives are ruined through the loss, to agencies like the EPA, of livelihood, or property it may have taken a lifetime to accumulate, to diseases caused by toxins associated with burning fossil fuels for electrical power, or thanks to bans on things like cyclamates, when they die from the effects of obesity. What we need now, if we hope to survive as a civilization for two more centuries, is another barrier, a Constitutional separation of state and science -- including medicine. Knowledge is valuable; real science won't languish for lack of funding. The money will simply come from contributors unwilling to pay for lies, and everyone will benefit. L. Neil Smith Author: THE PROBABILITY BROACH, THE CRYSTAL EMPIRE, HENRY MARTYN, and (forthcoming) PALLAS LEVER ACTION BBS (303) 493-6674, FIDOnet: 1:306/31.4 Libertarian Second Amendment Caucus NRA Life Member
Has anybody generated an X server for Windows NT? If so, are you willing to share your config file and other tricks necessary to make it work? Thanks for any information.
From: "Phil G. Fraering" <pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu> Right, the Profiting Caste is blessed by God, and may freely blare its presence in the evening twilight ..
Newsgroups: sci.med Path: news.larc.nasa.gov!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!sdd.hp.com!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!athena!aisun3.ai.uga.edu!mcovingt From: mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (Michael Covington) Sender: usenet@athena.cs.uga.edu Nntp-Posting-Host: aisun3.ai.uga.edu Organization: AI Programs, University of Georgia, Athens References: <PAULSON.93Apr19081647@cmb00.larc.nasa.gov> <116305@bu.edu> <C5uq9B.LrJ@toads.pgh.pa.us> Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 03:41:24 GMT Lines: 27 >> >>Many of these cereals are corn-based. After your post I looked in the >>literature and located two articles that implicated corn (contains >>tryptophan) and seizures. The idea is that corn in the diet might >>potentiate an already existing or latent seizure disorder, not cause it. >>Check to see if the two Kellog cereals are corn based. I'd be interested. > >Years ago when I was an intern, an obese young woman was brought into >the ER comatose after having been reported to have grand mal seizures >why attending a "corn festival". We pumped her stomach and obtained >what seemed like a couple of liters of corn, much of it intact kernals. >After a few hours she woke up and was fine. I was tempted to sign her out as >"acute corn intoxication." >---------------------------------------------------------------------------- >Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and How about contaminants on the corn, e.g. aflatoxin??? -- :- Michael A. Covington, Associate Research Scientist : ***** :- Artificial Intelligence Programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu : ********* :- The University of Georgia phone 706 542-0358 : * * * :- Athens, Georgia 30602-7415 U.S.A. amateur radio N4TMI : ** *** ** <>< What is aflatoxin? Sharon
As I understand it was considered unsafe for the tv networks to get any closer. Surely the networks can judge the risks of reporting for themselves. I haven't noticed CNN being banned from Baghdad hotels yet despite the (all too real) risk of having a cruise missile land in the lobby. Incidentally has that ever been explained or are we to assume that out of the whole of the city an off-course missile just happened to hit that hotel at a probability of about 1 in some very large number? Unsafe for who I wonder?
OK, just for grins: - Kekule hypothesized a resonant structure for the aromatic benzene ring after waking from a dream in which a snake was swallowing his tail. - Archimedes formalized the principle of buoyancy while meditating in his bath. In neither case was there "no connection to prior theories, concepts, etc." as you stipulated above. What there was was an intuitive leap beyond the current way of thinking, to develop ideas which subsequently proved to have predictive power (e.g., they stood the test of experimental verification). pardon my kibbutzing...
Is this an advantage to MS Windows or to Xt? I used to think it was a big advantage for Xt, but I am not at all sure anymore... ------------------------------------------------------------------------- David Smyth david@jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov Senior Software Engineer, (818)306-6463 (temp! do NOT use v-mail) X and Object Guru. tempory office: 525/B70 Jet Propulsion Lab, M/S 525-3660 4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, CA 91109 ------------------------------------------------------------------------- What's the earliest possible date you can't prove it won't be done by? - Tom DeMarco
#>In article <1993Apr15.222600.11690@research.nj.nec.com> #>> ... #>> Several chemists already have come up with several substitutes for #>> R12. You don't hear about them because the Mobile Air Conditioning #>Society #>> (MACS), that is, the people who stand to rake in that $300 to $1000 per #>> retrofit per automobile, have mounted an organized campaign to squash #>those #>> R12 substitutes out of existence if not ban them altogether (on very #>shaky #>> technical grounds, at best, on outright lies at worst). #>> ... #> #>Now, I'm not saying you're wrong because I know that the R-12 substitutes #>exist, but this sounds a lot like the 200mpg carbs that the oil companies #>keep us all from getting. # # It sounds crazy, but it's true. One of the best R-12 subsitutes, #GHG-12, is currently a commercial product. Unfortunately, the SAE committee #on mobile air conditioning is comprised almost exclusively of MACS members. #Such being the case, no papers about any alternative refrigerant other than #R-134a have been accepted for review/publication. # # Yo, John? You want to provide some more details? Or should I just #repost your voluminous repost? # #Later, #-- #Chris BeHanna DoD# 114 1983 H-D FXWG Wide Glide - Jubilee's Red Lady #behanna@syl.nj.nec.com 1975 CB360T - Baby Bike #Disclaimer: Now why would NEC 1991 ZX-11 - needs a name #agree with any of this anyway? I was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. We here are *VERY* interested in info on R12 substitutes (in fact I think we really need all the info on this we can get). I would really appreciate technical, supply, and hardware-upgrade details. Also, R12 is a useful solvent/reagent in the extraction/production of certain pharmaceuticals. Any info on the substitutes' corresponding usefullness? I am currently working with the local engineers who are making sure we are compliant with the regulations. The trouble with regulations is that they only tell you what you are no longer permitted to do, not what you should do instead. I think the cause of the new regulations is the Montreal Protocol which has a definite CFC-phase-out schedule. (Of course the cause of the Montreal Protocol was all the research done on the causes of the Ozone Depletion Problem.) Someone asked earlier about why the governments were working so fast to ban the ozone-depleting (CFC) chemicals and not gasolines and other greenhouse-gas-producing compounds. The greenhouse effect (produced by infrared-trapping gasses like CO2 and methane) and the ozone-hole problem (produced by long-lived, chlorine-containing molecules) are not the same thing. It is a lot easier to do something about not using the CFC's (chloro-fluorocarbons) than it is to stop producing CO2 and methane which are natural byproducts of combustion and of living (animal) organisms. Planting more trees and not destroying so many existing trees would help the greenhouse-gas problem, but would do nothing for the ozone problem. Fred W. Bach , Operations Group | Internet: music@erich.triumf.ca TRIUMF (TRI-University Meson Facility) | Voice: 604-222-1047 loc 327/278 4004 WESBROOK MALL, UBC CAMPUS | FAX: 604-222-1074 University of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C., CANADA V6T 2A3
I don't know if it's as much an issue of their ablility to handle the power as it is the power they lose (in the torque converter, etc). However, if you encounter a '93 Formula with 5.7L & 6-Speed Manual, You'll be SOL, I'm afraid. ;) BTW, I know of what I speak as a former owner of a 5.7L Auto IROC (1989) and current owner of the aforementioned car... Chris S. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Chris Silvester | "Any man capable of getting himself elected President chriss@sam.amgen.com | should by no means be allowed to do the job" chriss@netcom.com | - Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
Attention hardware hackers and bargain seekers! I just bought a 640x200 pixel LCD panel for 25 UK pounds. I have a datasheet for a similar panel, but I'm looking for proper data. If anyone can help with locating data for this device (before I start with the routine on the phone to Hitachi and rummaging through the library), then I'll pass on the source. Type: LM225 (Hitachi) Resolution: 640W x 200H (so can do 80x25 chars on 8x8 matrix) Bought from: Greenweld Electronics Ltd 27 Park Rd Southampton SO1 3TB, UK Tel. +44 703 23 63 63 Fax. +44 703 23 63 07 Email: Compuserve [100014,1463] NB: I only just bought this! I don't even know if it works! Price was 25 UK pounds including VAT (17.5%), which isn't payable if you're outside the EC. Thanks for any info! Chris
Has anybody out there used/tested these new Fluke Scopemeters? How do they compare to a low-end Tectronix oscilloscope? Are there any big drawbacks about these handheld scopes when compared to the benchtop scopes of the same price range ($1000-$2000)? Any info on the Fluke Scopemeters would be greatly appreciated. Thanks,
In case you haven't sent it yet, it's "Bentsen", not "Bensen".
Not to mention that the G-men believed the children didn't have gas masks. But that was not, with respect to the children, the point of the gassing. The feds *knew* that the children's health would be in danger and proceeded under the assumption that the "motherly instinct" of the Davidian women would remove them from harm's way. I busted a gut on that one. Someone else on the net observed that the administration's appeal to a woman's "motherly instinct" would never wash with feminists and liberals if a republican were in the White House. I say that such an justification could *only* come from a feminist mindset. BTW - I'd read in the paper yesterday that the type of gas used was CS2. The paper didn't provide any specifics about it.
Can one develop inner-ear problems from too much flying? I hear that pilots and steward/esses have a limit as to the maximum number of flying hours -- what are these limits? What are the main problems associated with too many long-haul (over 4 hours) trips?
-- My boss is interested in a new 300 series Mercedes Benz wagon. Does anyone have any testimonial evidence and/or strong opinions on this car (or line)? Particularly, I would like to hear about power (manual t. only) reliability, feel, and any unusually good or bad features of the line. She currently drives a VW Passat, and is being plagued by its electrical problems. The dealer claims there is nothing wrong, even though the doors have a habit of locking and unlocking them- selves while you are driving down the road. The automatic shoulder restraints also like to move back and forth as you move along. She does not have the new, larger engine and is quite dissatisfied with its lack of power. The MB wagon would have to have more power and no peculiar problems such as the Passat's electrical system. She is also considering a Saab 9000 (add some letters). Any comparisons between the 9000 line and the Mercedes would be helpful. Price is not an impediment. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Jeremy J. Corry | Churchill claimed the traditions jcorry@erasure_sl.cc.emory.edu | of the navy are rum, mutiny, and __ | sodomy. \/ My opinions are my own, but I probably got them from someone else.
You forgot the smiley-face. I can't believe this is what they turn out at Berkeley. Tell me you're an aberration.
Hi, I am looking for some help in choosing a package for a high-speed silicon ADC (100Mhz) currently being fabricated. This is a PhD research project and I have to test the chip at speed on a PCB. I expect to have roughly 100 packaged circuits and will do DC, low-speed and high-speed testing using 3 different set-ups for the test chip. I know for sure that a DIP will not work (the long lead lines have too high an inductance). Getting a custom-made package is too expensive, so I am trying to choose between a flatpak and a leadless chip carrier. The flatpack would be hard to test since it has to be soldered on to the test setup and I would spend loads of time soldering as I kept changing the test chip. The leadless chip carrier sockets also have long lead lines and may not work at high speeds. Does anyone out there have experience/knowledge of this field ? I would greatly appreciate help! Any ideas/ names of companies manufacturing holders/sockets/packages would help. P.S. The multi-layer fancy GaAs packages seem like a bit of overkill(?)
I have a question about tires for my Guzzi. It is a '75 850-T. The tires that were on it when I just bought it are old and cracked. I do not have an owners manual for it (yet), but the tires listed in the Haynes manual are: Front, 3,50 H 18 ; Rear 4.10 H 18, and pressures recommended are 26 front and 33 rear. Oddly, the pressure for the same tire on the T-3 is listed at 29 psi instead. Anyone know the reason? As I know though, the pressure I should run at is that recommended by the manufacturer of the new tires I purchase. The real question I have is this. The old tires that are on the bike are for the front, a Metzler Touring Special, 4.10 H 18, and for the rear an Avon Roadrunner 4.70 H 18, (120/90) H 18 as marked on each tire. Both are larger than that listed in the Haynes Manual. What does the owners manual recommend, and was it common to go up one size for this bike? Also, this will be my first motorcycle with innertubes. Any comments on the various manufacturers inner tube qualities? The above sizes are inches (except for the additional mark on the current rear tire). What is the best metric match? The local BMW dealer thought 100/90 H 18 on the front and 120/90 H 18 on the back. He also happens to be very good at getting close to matching mail order prices. I am thinking of going with a Metzler ME33 Laser (possibly Comp K) on the front and ME88 on the back, both in MBS variety if possible (the longer lasting belting system). I already use the ME33 on both the Vision and FJ for the front, and like it, and I thought that with the shaft drive behavior and torque from the Guzzi that the ME88 might give more predictable back end control and sliding behavior than a ME55 might, as well as giving much better tire milage life. Any comments? A friend told me he thought that my bike had Boranni rims which are very good, but are relatively soft and have delicate sidewalls. I do not wish to mount the tires myself this first time, so aside from warning the shop to be careful, any other comments I should make? I havn't looked at the rim to check out the make yet, if it is marked. He just told me late yesterday and I havn't had a chance to check the rim type. On another note. I will remove the ugly (but in good shape....anyone want it?) Vetter fairing, and I will run without a windscreen for a while, but eventually I would like a simple rounded cafe' style quarter fairing for it. It could be fork/handlebar mounted. Any suggestions? Is there such a thing as a frame mounted quarter fairing of the cafe' style for this bike? How about lower bars/clip-ons for it? I would like to restore the bike into a good condition runner with a few modern updates, but while not being historically exactly accurate still have it reflect relatively well a representation of the cafe' style. (Yes I know to be picky, that period really predates this bike....it is just that this bike has such potential for _that_ look.) -----------------------------Edward Walsh----Hewlett-Packard Company------- edw@boi.hp.com Disk Memory Division, MS475 (208)323-2174 P.O. Box 15 Boise,Idaho 83707 89FJ1200;82XZ550RJ(Vision);75Guzzi850-T;DoD#98
Greg, I'm very new to motorcycles. Haven't even bought one yet. I was in the same position about you. How do you learn if you've never ridden. I took a class put on by a group called the Motorcycle Safety Foundation in California. They might have something similar in Washington.
I dont know about the car comparison but as far as the price goes rest assured that the street prices for the MX-3 and Escort and (maybe) even the Honda will be lesser than that of the Saturn you're talking about. All price comparisons I've seen are based on MSRP and of course the saturn dealer will sell the car for sticker price whereas the others will do it way below sticker.
Sun's OpenWindows imake is broken. I suggest installing imake-pure, MIT's X11R5 imake. You can get it from ftp.germany.eu.net in file /pub/X11/misc/imake/imake-pure.tar.Z (117807 Byte). -- Dipl.-Inform. Rainer Klute I R B : immer richtig beraten Univ. Dortmund, IRB Postfach 500500 |)|/ Tel.: +49 231 755-4663 D-W4600 Dortmund 50 |\|\ Fax : +49 231 755-2386
I have two books, both NASA Special Publications, on the Voyager Missions. One is titled "Voyages to Jupiter" the other "Voyage to Saturn" These were excellent books put together after the encounters with each planet. The question is: Did NASA ever put together a similar book for either the Uranus encounter or Neptune? If so, what SP number is it and where can it be obtained? If not, why didn't they?
-*---- I think that Lee Lady and I are talking at cross purposes. Above, Lady seems concerned with the contrast between great science that makes big advances in our knowledge and mediocre science that makes smaller steps. In most of this thread, I have been concerned with the difference between what is science and what is not. Lee Lady is correct when she asserts that the difference between Einstein and the average post-doc physicist is the quality of their thought. But what is the difference between Einstein and a genius who would be a great scientist but whose great thoughts are scientifically screwy? (Some would give Velikovsky or Korzybski as examples. If you don't like these, choose your own.) I say it is the same as the difference between the mediocre physicist and the mediocre proponent of qi. Both Einstein and the mediocre physcists have disciplined their work from the cumulative knowledge of how previous researchers went wrong. Both Velikovsky and the mediocre proponent of qi have failed to do this. Let me approach this from a second direction. When one is asked to review a paper for a journal or conference, there are many kinds of criticism that one can make. One kind of criticism is that the work is just wrong or misinformed. Another kind of criticism is that the work, while technically correct, is either not important or not interesting. The first difference is the one that I have been pointing to. The second difference is the one that Lee Lady seems to be discussing. I have often pointed out that for homeopathy to be considered scientific, what is needed is a test of its theoretical claims, not just of some of its proposed remedies. Similarly, I suspect that traditional Chinese medicine has many remedies that work; what it lacks (as one example) is any experiment that tests the presence of qi. Certainly a "theoretical structure that makes sense" is the goal. In areas where we do not yet have this, I see nothing wrong with forming and testing smaller hypotheses. Let's face it: we cannot always wait for an Einstein to come along and make everything clear for us. Sometimes those of us who are not Einstein have to plug along and make small amounts of progress as best we can.
I had allergy shots for about four years starting as a sophomore in high school. Before that, I used to get bloody noses, nighttime asthma attacks, and eyes so itchy I couldn't get to sleep. After about 6 months on the shots, most of those symptoms were gone, and they haven't come back. I stopped getting the shots (due more to laziness than planning) in college. My allergies got a little worse after that, but are still nowhere near as bad as they used to be. So yes, the shots do work.
Hi there Does anyone know how to get hold of data as well as stock of the LCD displays used in the NINTENDO GAMEBOY handheld TV game machines? Any information wouold be MOST appreciated. Please e-mail any replies to arawstorne@eleceng.uct.ac.za thanks
Good story, Chuck, but it won't wash. I have read the NY Acad Sci one (and have it). This AM I couldn't find any reference to "weight rebound". I'm not saying it isn't there, but since you cited it, it is your responsibility to show me where it is in there. There is no index. I suspect you overstepped your knowledge base, as usual. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Osinski): years. city Are you one of those people who were born when Istanbul was called Konstantinopolis? I don't think so! If those people use it because they are used to do so, then I understand. But open any map today (except a few that try to be political) you will see that the name of the city is printed as Istanbul. So, don't try to give any arguments to using Konstantinopolis except to cause some flames, to make some political statement. -- Tankut Atan tankut@iastate.edu
According to WNCI 97.9 FM radio this morning, Dayton, Ohio is operating a gun "buy back". They are giving $50 for every functional gun turned in. They ran out of money in one day, and are now passing out $50 vouchers of some sort. They are looking for more funds to keep operating. Another media-event brought to you by HCI. Is there something similar pro-gun people can do ? For example, pay $100 to anyone who lawfully protects their life with a firearm ? Sounds a bit tacky, but hey, whatever works.
I guess 100k, connecting pins 1-3 (1x), 1-6 (1y), 9-11 (2x), and 9-13 (2y). Or: Get an 8-bit DA-Converter (merely a couple of transistors and Resistors) and an OpAmp to compare its output to the voltage you want to measure, connect them to a spared printer port (if you have one), and do the rest by software (stepwise refinement). The port addresses for your printer ports are probably: &H378 (LPT1), &H278 (LPT2). This should work well enough for your purposes. Hope this helps -- GMD, Schloss Birlinghoven, Postfach 1316, D-5205 St. Augustin 1, FRG
As quoted from <1993Apr5.172734.8744@icd.ab.com> by kdw@icd.ab.com (Kenneth D. Whitehead): There were some significant differences. Whereas the Branch Davidians are reported to have gotten along rather well with their neighbors, the MOVE people are generally conceded to have gone far out of the way to antagonize their BLACK neighbors, using loudspeakers to all hours of the night, keeping large piles of garbage, promoting rat and insect infestation, and allegedly threatening to kidnap their neighbors' children. Still the same sort of questions regarding use of force remain in that case.
Speech by Pete Worden Delivered Before the U.S. Space Foundation Conference Colorado Springs, Colorado April 15, 1993 What a delightful opportunity to cause some trouble. For providing me this forum I would sincerely like to thank the U.S. Space Foundation. My topic today is the Single Stage Rocket Technology rocket or SSRT. By I intend to speak of more. How to lower the cost and make rapid progress. SSRT is to my mind -- and I hope to convince you -- the erupting a new rallying cry for our generation in space -- Faster, Cheaper, and Better. Faster, Cheaper, Better and SSRT represent the passing of a torch from one technical generation to another. It is a new thing to be sure -- but it is also a relearning of old things from past masters. When we rolled out the SSRT baby two weeks ago, so called experts told us it violates the laws of physics -- it made no sense. For example, Dr. Eberhart Rachtin - former president of the Aerospace Corp., said of SSRT in the L.A. Times that it, "defies the best principles of launching payloads into space." Well Dr. Rachtin -- you've made us mad! What are these principles that SSRT defies? Well I'll tell you. It violates the principle that you need a giant program office to build space hardware. It violates the "fact" that it takes 20 years to build something new. And it violates the truism that you cant do anything significant for less than many billions of dollars. It took some of the last generation's experts to teach us some new/old lessons. Werhner Von Braun's first rocket was not a Saturn V. General Schriever's ICBM's didn't take ten years to demonstrate. And the X-1 airplane didn't cost $1 billion. It took one of the great engineers of the 1950's to remind us of these truths -- Max Hunter. Max, to remind you, was a senior engineer in the Thor IRBM program, and old faster, better, cheaper success story. Max has been persistent in a vision of a single stage reusable space launch system since the 1960's. Because he knew it had to be done in affordable steps - Build a little, Test a little. Next he persuaded us to do a technology demonstration. We didn't solicit a bunch of requirements -- they'd just change every few years anyway. [ not included in the speech -- The ALS/NLS has such ephemeral requirements that it would better known as "Shape Shifter" than "Space Lifter." We didn't spend a lot money -- this X-Rocket only cost $60 million. When's the last time we even built a new airplane for that? And it didn't take a lot of time to build -- McDonnell Douglas completed it in 18 months. Finally, the government program office consisted of one very over-worked Air Force Major -- motivated in part by the threat that he'd get to ride on it in a strapped-on lawn chair if it ran over cost or schedule. As I described what SSRT is -- and isn't keep in mind its only a first step. There are several more steps -- and steps that can easily fail -- before the U.S. can field an SSTO. But each step should follow the same principles -- a small management team -- a few years technology demonstration -- and a modest budget. Let me show a few details on SSRT and how it might evolve: (See charts) I'm embarrassed when my generation is compared with the last generation -- the giants of the last great space era, the 1950's and 1960's. They went to the moon - we built a telescope that can't see straight. They soft-landed on Mars - the least we could do is soft-land on Earth! But we do have an answer. We can follow their build a little, test a little philosophy to produce a truly affordable and routine access to space. I know there are nay sayers among you -- those who say SSRT is a stunt. It needs more thermal protection, the engines are wrong, it would be better to land horizontally, etc, etc. I say to you -- we'll see you at White Sands in June. You bring your view-graphs, and I'll bring my rocketship. If we do what we say we can do, then you let us do the next step. [ not included in the speech: If we fail -- you still have your program offices, staff summary sheets, requirement analyses, and decade long programs.]
I would say there are also significant numbers of unscrupulous doctors (of the squeaky-clean, traditional crew-cut, talk to the AMA before starting any treatment, kind) who recommend treatments that, though "accepted", may not be necessary for the patient at the time. And all for making a quick buck. I would not be surprised if the cost of medical services in the U.S. is significantly inflated by these "quacks of a different color". In fact, I'd say these doctors are the most dangerous since they call into question the true focus of the medical profession. The AMA and the Boards should focus on these "quacks" instead of devoting unbelievable energy on 'search-and- destroy-missions' to pull the licenses of those doctors who are trying non- traditional or not fully accepted treatments for their desperate patients that traditional/accepted medicine cannot help. *************************************************** Now to make a general comment on many recent posts: *************************************************** Lately I've seen the word "quack" bandied about recklessly. When a doctor or doctor-wanna-be has decided to quit discussing any controversial medical subject in a civilized manner, all he/she has to do is say "quack-quack" and somehow they magically expect the readership of this newsgroup to roll over on their backs and pee-pee on themselves in obedience. What do they teach you in medical school - how to throw your authority around? Let me put it another way to make my point clear: "quack" is a nebulous word lacking in any precision. Its sole use is to obfuscate the issues at hand. The indiscriminate use of this word is a sure sign of incompetency; and coming from any medical doctor (or wanna-be), where competency is expected, is real scary. But what do I know, I've already been diagnosed by the sci.med.gods in this newsgroup as being 'anal retentive', and 'psychotic'. I look forward to more net.diagnoses. Hey, they're free. Jon "Quacks 'R Us" Noring (p.s., may I suggest - seriously - that if the doctors and wanna-be-doctors on the net who refuse to have an open mind on alternative treatments and theories, such as the "yeast theory", should create your own moderated group. You can call it sci.med.traditional.moderated or sci.med.AMA-approved, so you can keep anal-retentives like me out of it.) -- Charter Member --->>> INFJ Club.
I have a Sparc[12] with a german type 4 keyboard. Has anybody a Patch for X11R5? Thanks in advance
I see one thing wrong with your strategy. The boy who cried wolf. __ Jorg Klinger | GSXR1100 | If you only new who Arch. & Eng. Services |"Lost Horizons" CR500 | I think I am. UManitoba, Man. Ca. |"The Embalmer" IT175 | - anonymous
Does anybody have informations about the W 86 C 451 and W 86 C 456 chips (40pin DIL pckg)? They are build in a multifunction io-card for pc. Thanks Dirk -- ------------------------------------------------------------ Dirk Junghanns junghanns@rz.tu-ilmenau.de
I think those are to make the lines more visible to airplanes and helicopters... cheaper than blinking red lights. 'course I could be wrong.
By this, do you mean that you consider it absolutely impossible for the media to be guilty of hypocrisy? Note that the film industry in California traded their political support for an "assault weapon" ban in the state for an amendment to the bill exempting the entertainment industry from that very ban. Note that the very issue of the Batman comic book ("Seduction of the Gun") that was produced as a tool for gun-control organizations carries a back- page ad for a "Terminator II" video game extolling the numerous and varied sophisticated weapons available to the player. Note that Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, publisher of the NY Times -- one of the oldest and most incessant gun-control grinders -- himself carries a concealed handgun. Still, you find it completely incredible that these folks live by the aphorism, "Do as I say, and not as I do." --
Forgive me if this is a FAQ (I have checked the list but I cant find it). I have a problem with the cursor within Xterm on MONO (not grayscale monitors) The problem is that when I have an character application that displays input fields in reverse video the Xterm text cursor gets lost on the edge of the input field. The solution would appear to be to set the xterm cursor to a line rather than a block, but how do you do this. I can't find any means although various sources seem to indicate it can be done. When the xterm loses the input focus the cursor becomes an outlined block. This would also be preferable but I can't seem to force this to be the default either. Configuration is : Motorola 88K X11R4 Please reply by email if poss. Thank you -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Steve Weet - European Mis - Motorola Cellular Subscriber Group Beechgreen Court, Chineham, Basingstoke, HANTS England. Phone : +44 (0)256 790154 E-Mail stevew@chineham.euro.csg.mot.com Fax : +44 (0)256 817481 Mobile : +44 (0)850 335105 Post : w10075 --
I was reading Popular Science this morning and was surprised by an ad in the back. I know that a lot of the ads in the back of PS are fringe science or questionablely legal, but this one really grabbed my attention. It was from a company name "Personal Missle, Inc." or something like that. Anyhow, the ad stated that they'd sell rockets that were up to 20' in length and engines of sizes "F" to "M". They also said that some rockets will reach 50,000 feet. Now, aside from the obvious dangers to any amateur rocketeer using one of these beasts, isn't this illegal? I can't imagine the FAA allowing people to shoot rockets up through the flight levels of passenger planes. Not to even mention the problem of locating a rocket when it comes down. And no, I'm not going to even think of buying one. I'm not that crazy. -Paul "mine'll do 50,000 feet and carries 50 pounds of dynamite" Dokas
the transmission in my car contradicts both your assertions.. i get much stronger acceleration if i let the convertor lockup.. which i can induce by briefly lifting off, then quickly (but not too quickly to trigger a kickdown) applying throttle. above 3000 rpms, the convertor will never unlock; it would kickdown first. who says there's no skill involved in driving an automatic? i think of it as the throttle and shifter combined into a single pedal. with my car i can pretty much influence its shifting patterns with my right foot, while having both hands to steer.
It is illegal to perform acupuncture with unsterilized needles. No licensed practitioner would dare do this. Also there is not a single documented case of transmission of AIDS via acupuncture needles. I wouldn't worry about it.
Sure. Contact the World Space Foundation. They're listed in the sci.space Frequently Asked Questions file, which I'll excerpt. WORLD SPACE FOUNDATION - has been designing and building a solar-sail spacecraft for longer than any similar group; many JPL employees lend their talents to this project. WSF also provides partial funding for the Palomar Sky Survey, an extremely successful search for near-Earth asteroids. Publishes *Foundation News* and *Foundation Astronautics Notebook*, each a quarterly 4-8 page newsletter. Contributing Associate, minimum of $15/year (but more money always welcome to support projects). World Space Foundation Post Office Box Y South Pasadena, California 91301 WSF put together a little paperback anthology of fiction and nonfiction about solar sails: *Project Solar Sail*. I think Robert Staehle, David Brin, or Arthur Clarke may be listed as editor. Also there is a nontechnical book on solar sailing by Louis Friedman, a technical one by a guy whose name escapes me (help me out, Josh), and I would expect that Greg Matloff and Eugene Mallove have something to say about the subject in *The Starflight Handbook*, as well as quite a few references. Check the following articles in *Journal of the British Interplanetary Society*: V36 p. 201-209 (1983) V36 p. 483-489 (1983) V37 p. 135-141 (1984) V37 p. 491-494 (1984) V38 p. 113-119 (1984) V38 p. 133-136 (1984) (Can you guess that Matloff visited Fermilab and gave me a bunch of reprints? I just found the file.) And K. Eric Drexler's paper "High Performance Solar Sails and Related Reflecting Devices," AIAA paper 79-1418, probably in a book called *Space Manufacturing*, maybe the proceedings of the Second (?) Conference on Space Manufacturing. The 1979 one, at any rate.
NMM>From: nielsmm@imv.aau.dk (Niels Mikkel Michelsen) NMM>Subject: How to act in front of traffic jerks NMM>The other day, it was raining cats and dogs, therefor I was going only to NMM>the speed limit, on nothing more, on my bike. This guy in his BMW was NMM>driving 1-2 meters behind me for 7-800 meters and at the next red light I NMM>calmly put the bike on its leg, walked back to this car, he rolled down the NMM>window, and I told him he was a total idiot (and the reason why). NMM>Did I do the right thing? NMM>Yours Truly : NMM> Niels Mikkel Well, sounds great to me! When I have a real BDI cager tailgating me, I've found that an effective strategy is to flash my brake light by pumping the pedal. You will, obviously need a bit of free play in your brake pedal to do this. It seems that even the most brain dead idiot can usually discern that a flashing red light directly in front of him/her/it may mean that something is wrong. The two problems I'd see with your strategy is that the red light may change before you can get anything meaningful out of your mouth, or the occupant(s) may take exception to your opinions and demonstrate such physically (on you or your now-parked bike). Admittedly, the latter is a slim chance, but it would be enough to give me pause. * SLMR 2.1a * sometimes you get to be the windshield, sometimes the bug
You sonuvabitch. Rub it in, why don't you? "We have great weather and great roads here, unlike the rest of you putzes in the U.S. Nyah, nyah, nyah." :-) for the severely humor-impaired. You'll likely not notice her weight too much. A piece of advice for you: don't be abrupt with the throttle. No wheelies, accelerate a wee bit more slowly than usual. Consciously worry about spitting her off the back. It's as much your job to keep her on the pillion as it is hers, and I guarantee she'll be put off by the bike ripping out from under her when you whack it open. Keep the lean angles pretty tame the first time out too. You and her need to learn each other's body English. She needs to learn what your idea is about how to take the turn, and you need to learn her idea of "shit! Don't crash now!" so you don't work at cross purposes while leaned over. You can work up to more aggressive riding over time. A very important thing: tell her to put her hand against the tank when you brake--this could save you some severely crushed cookies. Have fun,
Troglodytism does not necessarily imply a low cultural level. The image-conscious Armenians sorely feel a missing glory in their background. Armenians have never achieved statehood and independence, they have always been subservient, and engaged in undermining schemes against their rulers. They committed genocide against the Muslim populations of Eastern Anatolia and Armenian Dictatorship before and during World War I and fully participated in the extermination of the European Jewry during World War II. Belligerence, genocide, back-stabbing, rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the Armenian history. To obliterate these episodes the Armenians engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims. In this zeal they tried to cover up the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million Turks and Kurds before and during World War I. And, you don't pull nations out of a hat. Source: Walker, Christopher: "Armenia: The Survival of a Nation." New York (St. Martin's Press), 1980. This generally pro-Armenian work contains the following information of direct relevance to the Nazi Holocaust: a) Dro (the butcher), the former Dictator of the Armenian Dictatorship and the architect of the Genocide of 2.5 million Turks and Kurds, the most respected of Nazi Armenian leaders, established an Armenian Provisional Republic in Berlin during World War II; b) this 'provisional government' fully endorsed and espoused the social theories of the Nazis, declared themselves and all Armenians to be members of the Aryan 'Super-Race;' c) they published an Anti-Semitic, racist journal, thereby aligning themselves with the Nazis and their efforts to exterminate the Jews; and, d) they mobilized an Armenian Army of up to 20,000 members which fought side by side with the Wehrmacht. Serdar Argic
Sorry for posting this here, but noone has replied to my post from the politics side of the group. I want to get involved in the fight to save our gun rights. But first, I need to get a little more educated. I've been reading all the magzines and books I can get my hands on, and sifting through hundreds of messages here in the Internet. I want to obtain a COMPLETE list of Senate Bill and House Resolution names/numbers. Can anyone tell me how/where to obtain this info? Surely there has to be a way to obtain copies of anti-gun legislation from those *&%$#@'s in Washington. Any help is appreciated. /-----------------------------------------------------------------------------\
While you brought up the separate question of Israel's unjustified policies and practices, I am still unclear about your reaction to the practices and polocies reflected in the article above.
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: Final Solution for Gaza ? Final Solution for the Gaza ghetto ? ------------------------------------ While Israeli Jews fete the uprising of the Warsaw ghetto, they repress by violent means the uprising of the Gaza ghetto and attempt to starve the Gazans. The Gaza strip, this tiny area of land with the highest population density in the world, has been cut off from the world for weeks. The Israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of Gaza, some 700.000 people, by denying them the right to leave the strip and seek work in Israel. While Polish non-Jews risked their lives to save Jews from the Ghetto, no Israeli Jew is known to have risked his life to help the Gazan resistance. The only help given to Gazans by Israeli Jews, only dozens of people, is humanitarian assistance. The right of the Gazan population to resist occupation is recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of justice. A population denied basic human rights is entitled to rise up against its tormentors. As is known, the Israeli regime is considering Gazans unworthy of Israeli citizenship and equal rights in Israel, although they are considered worthy to do the dirty work in Israeli hotels, shops and fields. Many Gazans are born in towns and villages located in Israel. They may not live there, for these areas are reserved for the Master Race. The Nazi regime accorded to the residents of the Warsaw ghetto the right to self- administration. They selected Jews to pacify the occupied population and preventing any form of resistance. Some Jewish collaborators were killed. Israel also wishes to rule over Gaza through Arab collaborators. As Israel denies Gazans the only two options which are compatible with basic human rights and international law, that of becoming Israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for self-determination, it must be concluded that the Israeli Jewish society does not consider Gazans full human beings. This attitude is consistent with the attitude of the Nazis towards Jews. The current policies by the Israeli government of cutting off Gaza are consistent with the wish publicly expressed by Prime Mininister Yitzhak Rabin that 'Gaza sink into the sea'. One is led to ask oneself whether Israeli leaders entertain still more sinister goals towards the Gazans ? Whether they have some Final Solution up their sleeve ? I urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever they can to help the Gazans regain their full human, civil and political rights, to which they are entitled as human beings. Elias Davidsson Iceland From elias@ismennt.is Fri Apr 23 02:30:21 1993 Received: from isgate.is by igc.apc.org (4.1/Revision: 1.77 ) id AA00761; Fri, 23 Apr 93 02:30:13 PDT Received: from rvik.ismennt.is by isgate.is (5.65c8/ISnet/14-10-91); Fri, 23 Apr 1993 09:29:41 GMT Received: by rvik.ismennt.is (16.8/ISnet/11-02-92); Fri, 23 Apr 93 09:30:23 GMT From: elias@ismennt.is (Elias Davidsson) Message-Id: <9304230930.AA11852@rvik.ismennt.is> Subject: no subject (file transmission) To: cpr@igc.org Date: Fri, 23 Apr 93 9:30:22 GMT X-Charset: ASCII X-Char-Esc: 29 Status: RO Final Solution for the Gaza ghetto ? ------------------------------------ While Israeli Jews fete the uprising of the Warsaw ghetto, they repress by violent means the uprising of the Gaza ghetto and attempt to starve the Gazans. The Gaza strip, this tiny area of land with the highest population density in the world, has been cut off from the world for weeks. The Israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of Gaza, some 700.000 people, by denying them the right to leave the strip and seek work in Israel. While Polish non-Jews risked their lives to save Jews from the Ghetto, no Israeli Jew is known to have risked his life to help the Gazan resistance. The only help given to Gazans by Israeli Jews, only dozens of people, is humanitarian assistance. The right of the Gazan population to resist occupation is recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of justice. A population denied basic human rights is entitled to rise up against its tormentors. As is known, the Israeli regime is considering Gazans unworthy of Israeli citizenship and equal rights in Israel, although they are considered worthy to do the dirty work in Israeli hotels, shops and fields. Many Gazans are born in towns and villages located in Israel. They may not live there, for these areas are reserved for the Master Race. The Nazi regime accorded to the residents of the Warsaw ghetto the right to self- administration. They selected Jews to pacify the occupied population and preventing any form of resistance. Some Jewish collaborators were killed. Israel also wishes to rule over Gaza through Arab collaborators. As Israel denies Gazans the only two options which are compatible with basic human rights and international law, that of becoming Israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for self-determination, it must be concluded that the Israeli Jewish society does not consider Gazans full human beings. This attitude is consistent with the attitude of the Nazis towards Jews. The current policies by the Israeli government of cutting off Gaza are consistent with the wish publicly expressed by Prime Mininister Yitzhak Rabin that 'Gaza sink into the sea'. One is led to ask oneself whether Israeli leaders entertain still more sinister goals towards the Gazans ? Whether they have some Final Solution up their sleeve ? I urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever they can to help the Gazans regain their full human, civil and political rights, to which they are entitled as human beings.
# # > In Re:Syria's Expansion, the author writes that the UN thought # > Zionism was Racism and that they were wrong. They were correct # > the first time, Zionism is Racism and thankfully, the McGill Daily # > (the student newspaper at McGill) was proud enough to print an article # > saying so. If you want a copy, send me mail. # > # Was the article about zionism? or about something else. The majority # of people I heard emitting this ignorant statement, do not really # know what zionism is. They have just associated it with what they think # they know about the political situation in the middle east. # # So Steve: Lets here, what IS zionism? Assuming that you mean 'hear', you weren't 'listening': he just told you, "Zionism is Racism." This is a tautological statement.
I sold my '86 Sprint last April with 95k on it. I'd driven it since the previous July, putting 20k miles on it. The sensor light used to light up regularly, starting about 5k miles after I bought it. My brother and I rebuilt the engine but used all of the original equipment, so I suppose the sensor could have used replacement. Performance (hah, if you could call it that) did not change. Perhaps emissions increased, but how much emissions could a CA-registered 3 cylinder engine produce? That was a neat car, I held the engine block easily in one hand! Has anyone ever driven the 'Turbo' variant? Just curious...
But whatever the neutrons hit has a good chance of absorbing the neutron and becoming radioactive itself. Mostly, that means water turning into (harmless) heavy water. But some neutrons would also hit bones, and the resulting harmfull, secondard radioactives would remain in the body for decades. I think an unshielded nuclear warhead could reasonably be considered a public health hazard. As for a shielded warhead, I think a fair amount of maintaince is required for it to remain safely shielded (e.g. storage in a dry, temperature-regulated facility, etc...) For private ownership to be unregulated, I think a single individual must be able not only to keep the weapon, but keep it in a safe condition. If any random private citizen could not properly keep, maintain and store a nuclear weapon, then some regulation is clearly appropriate. I disagree with this purpose: The job of the militia is to defend themselves and their community. If you look at the American revolution as an example, the militias won by seperating themselves from, and becoming independent of, a repressive government. They didn't overthrow it, and those communities (Canada and England, for example) that didn't defend themselves were still under that same old regime. If the role of the militia were offensive, to go out and destroy repressive governments, nuclear weapons _might_ be appropriate. But their jobs is defensive, and nuclear weapons aren't suited for that. There is also the question of personal and collective arms: The Second Amendment definately protects ownership of personal weapons (since the very nature of the militia requires members to provide their own arms.) But it isn't clear if it covers other arms. Certainly, not all members would supply (for example) a tank, only a few could or (if they were to be used effectively) should. However, those providing the heavy weapons have a disproportionate control over the militia and its fierpower. The militias, as the framers envisioned them, were extremely democratic: If only 50% of the members supported the cause, only 50% would respond to a muster, and the militia's firepower would be proportionately reduced. Militia firepower and the popular will were, therefore, linked. But if a small minority of the members supplied a large fraction of the firepower (in the form of heavy weapons) this would all change: The militia's firepower would depend on the will of a small minority, not of the general public. Worse, that minority would be quite different from the general public (at the very least, they would be much richer.) As a result, I think the nature and character of the militia requires that each member provide a roughly equal share of the militia's firepower: His personal weapons, and some equitable fraction of a squad's heavier firepower.
Why are you fooling around with analog for this job? A single chip micro and a crystal will do the job reliably and easily. An 8748 only costs about $5. That and a $1 crystal and you're in business. Embed the whole thing in a foam insulated blanket, power it from a solar cell, use the excess power to heat the assembly during the day and rely on the insulation to hold the heat during darkness. If you don't want to try thermal management, contact someone like ICL and have them cut you a special low temperature crystal. It'll cost at most $20. If you use a single chip micro, you're looking at a parts count of maybe 7. A processor, a crystal, two caps on the crystal, a power FET to fire the solenoid a flyback diode and a battery. This is fewer parts than you can build an analog timer for and is infinitely more reliable. Add a power zener diode (for heat) and a solar cell and the parts count screams up to 9. PD assemblers are available for all the common single chip micros. This application is so trivial you could even look up the op codes in the programmer's guide and create the binary with a hex editor. John
[deleted] Which crap, the ridiculous assertions that Uzis are mowing down cops right and left? The assertions that dialing 911 should be the proper and only option available to the law-abiding citizens? A factoid: 56 cops were killed in the whole country last year. This is down from around 100 in the early '80s. Wow, a real explosion in cop killings there eh? :-)
Yes, there is such a thing as eye dominance, although I am not sure if this dominance refers to perscription strength. As i recall, if you selectively close your dominant eye, you will percieve that the image shifts. This will not happen if you close your other eye. I believe that which eye is dominant is related to handedness, but I can't recall the relation at the moment.
Try the 'M.Sc. Computing Science' course at the REAL Newcastle University. It's a conversion course, but at least they teach REAL programming. In the space of 9 months we were taught PASCAL, Simula, Prolog, Miranda. Also, some basic low level stuff (68000) was covered as well. They also did concurrent programming and operating systems, some software engineering, plus quite a few optional units, including database theory, and some stuff about comms. The PASCAL is to be replaced by C/C++ I think next year - I learn't this (and X Windows programming as well) anyway via a good selection of project over the final three months - depending on your tastes, the selection of skills learn't can be quite wide reaching. The one critiscism I would level at the course, which I would have thought invaluable, is the lack of an option to do the project period in industry - this would probably need a slightly longer project period (say six months), but would enhance the prestige and usefulness of an already excellent and thorough course. Yes, I know this sounds like a plug for the course, why not!
Kratz comments above show otherwise. Bingo - now the question is, does the Glock's qualify? Let's see the evidence that Kratz uses. But first an aside. Having an air gun proves nothing. Moreover, my comments are based on what Kratz writes. He's free to argue that he babbles in text but actually knows something off-line. Harder than what? I note that almost all revolvers work the same way, so it can't be "harder than revolvers". Sure they can. (Moreover, we know now that Kratz' sample is unrepresentative.) We can look at the reasoning. It is basically "these Glocks are dangerous because they're not like my 1911/S&W third generation." Part of that is true, but since those same people don't claim that revolvers, which share the relevant property, are dangerous, we see that the argument fails. Why would I care? I'm not looking for more bogus reasoning. One can make hundreds of simple statements without having anyone "getting right on your ass". One merely has to make accurate simple statements. Then you get "attaboy"s by mail and publically. Accuracy is a severe burden, but most of us manage it. -andy
cjackson> I am very glad to know that none of you judgemental little shits has cjackson> ridden/driven when too tired, sleepy, hungover, angry, or distracted cjackson> in the last 3 years. Why, if you had then you might be just as guilty Some of us not-so judgmental little shits don't drive/ride when we're impaired. I stopped doing that sort of thing when a good friend of mine got killed by a drunk driver who failed to stop for a red and drove through the side of her volvo in his '72 caddy. Then again, I suspect most of the responsible adults on the net don't bother posting in flame wars on rec.moto. cjackson> "There is no justification for taking away individuals' freedom cjackson> in the guise of public safety." -- Thomas Jefferson He also owned slaves, kept some as forced concubines, and had enough resources to do what he wanted without fear of reprisal. Then again, he also smoked dope.
I've used on-chip capacitors to reduce ground-bounce noise on a small systolic array chip that had 50pF loads on the clock lines. (Design was in 2-micron n-well cmos, using the MOSIS scalable design rules.) Here are some thoughts on the bypass capacitors: 1) They don't help much with simultaneous output switching--there is still a large inductance between the bypass capacitor and the load capacitor (on both the signal line and the ground return), so you still get ground and power line bounce. 2) They do help a lot with on-chip loads, as I had with the high load on the clock lines. 3) The transients you are trying to suppress are really high frequency, so forget about large areas of poly-thin-oxide-diff capacitors, since the RC time constant is too large. What I did is to make a metal2, metal, poly, diff sandwich, but put a lot of holes in the poly layer, allowing frequent diff-metal1 contacts. I forget exactly how wide the poly lines were. If I were doing this design again, I'd probably omit the diff altogether, and use a solid poly sheet instead, using just m2, m1, and poly (and substrate, but that has such a high resistance it can be ignored at these speeds). 4) You are probably better off trying to tune your circuit to run with slightly slower edges and lower voltage swings (especially for output signalling), than spending chip area on capacitors. I had spare space on the die since the circuit was too big for a MOSIS tiny chip, and the next size up was twice as big as I needed. Kevin Karplus -- Kevin Karplus karplus@ce.ucsc.edu
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Wow! I knew Uranus is a long way off, but I didn't think it was THAT far away!
There was a Science fiction movie sometime ago (I do not remember its name) about a planet in the same orbit of Earth but hidden behind the Sun so it could never be visible from Earth. Turns out that that planet was the exact mirror image of Earth and all its inhabitants looked like the Earthings with the difference that their organs was in the opposite side like the heart was in the right side instead in the left and they would shake hands with the left hand and so on... C.O.EGALON@LARC.NASA.GOV C.O.Egalon@larc.nasa.gov
This is a followup post to something I've written previously. Several people responded with good information, but I don't think I communicated exactly what I am looking for. I'm working on a custom I/O device that will communicate with a host via RS-232. My custom circuitry will use an 80C186EB or EC CPU and require about 64K of RAM (preferably FLASH RAM). In looking around, I see that lots of people have engineered UART-CPU-ROM-RAM subsystems that are ready to be interfaced to your custom I/O devices. It's been done so much, that it would be best if I can avoid reinventing a system. It just needs to use an 80C186 (or 188) CPU, and be able to load a program from the host then transfer control to that program. Well, there's one other thing the ROM needs to know how to do. It should have routines to send and receive bytes to/from the host, that utilize the hardware control lines (DTR,RTS,DTS,CTS). Everything I've seen is in the $200.00 and up range. That's too much for this application. I need something around $100.00. The CPU has the UART built-in, so you're only looking at a few chips. Does anyone know a company that markets a good board in this range, or some public domain circuitry I can use? Thanks in advance for the info.
Car and Driver rated the 325is (1988) at 7.2 0-60 , 1/4 at 15.2 (after 30k miles) last time I checked 8#}. Automobile magazine rated new 325is 1/4 mile@16.2. Gee , aint quotiin funner than the dickens! Sounds like we need a race. I'll let you have the newer version. Can someone out there lend me a 1988 325is for a day 8-]. I wont hurt it, I promise.
begin 644 outOfControl.gif M1TE&.#=AN@*6`?```````/___RP`````N@*6`0`"_@Q@J)O-[XQ4#IYX::Z3 M9PUB4ZAY9`<NY59*:/!2L0C-J^W>2(>?[-C3Q70,6A`H9)&2OA=*ELQ)?RW+ MP3HT5F%1RQ%INGZNVMF4&WR0?4+>"OO!,-7(-SO,K#^I=2_<=J?4,QB(`X-V MN)-X>+;C1^B&UI7C&#E)=7E&F)?9"?9X`OEH.77CE(*I!5KI^08H-I8PMC9: M26HW"RLFN]LK>@NH1PN[UT>YQ,&ETL#[)#=BVO0<ZZ=VB7S=**D)!?G+\]M& M%`[<2MY]$=[*JFW8V>6ZYHSZG6V.#DVZ-XS?[8*X:`@M6;SB;5M'<""U3VS& M-5E5J-JT8)P<%>&#$=I#_CH2O40*")#=/6\.3QW,(JY,IB,C4[6\-Y(EPTW" MRIP[*:AB'X>Z/"K2MV5805T:/YD@28G&LIQ+AVY,6$%G"@]4X]"SVM2:THGS M;MIJ$9)1/W<AO'I]-S%F2S-!SU9URXFBW))7N[95E!'4W*':5+CZ*(/;W+'R M\DK9Q-$HUH4/56*+.C5K6L<'$V-%*>HQQ\O,P.+#:7>0RLJAS:+]LW:2Z:BC M8:KK.QAQW-2FK;+MR><?(Y-X<1:V,YEVQXB1;5\&'E$.J]\S>\7;$!RSY7G2 MTGT]+%:WZW&B]=*%2U.U2(3>*<)[FRUT68-87I>_N_I:3DF2`\/^UWLI1I^) M_L:?@]D18E6AIMQ1A2F6T&S-074@3R+(%$5V]ODCDGI(I71:=_&)UYHJL#4H M3(`U",?67N?A@B!A$:18FQ$%O;C%;B>!4Z$OF!!(8BF**:21?@8.J(1++A5H MV&:118><=*PEEY^,$X)&6V;DL.B=@E)&.>1W[/&&TGL,;>FC<<:(R1]\C9'G M!(.Y(1(-2,4YZ$]G5)H()7U!PHACBDQ5)I6<EH%YHD)P>,EDFF"5XV&&U=G4 MD'KV:*C@HW0-Y^<V%FY7(G?[04E,F_;DV>"??74*VF'7L4E=@N8IF1&5[&'S MVW%^018<8Q)-8YT5KQ[G!IAIK"7A;KZ2Z%ELSUFZ_DI\RI)W47@6+:@HA`DV M&DJ1ITK*:K,_X->K4=P"I!M@-5Z:#YV>*IDH9$%N.I^DQ>F)WFS'+E83<GEA MB.I/)H4W)X>I601%I+PM9VZEPVXU+WA%FANP>U_86.>_CG(Y[KG<ZFO+*_RP MVJ^6'!-,%#6S=)D/O3:^:F#"@9+\W%\W3A?AC,`@BF^U_";9\,+$+BMPGR]) MZS%S/&8YAXH2[ZP5Q#*&&Z.F8[);C,A0P3CUH&&HNZZJQ*#'Z9Z1Z@=KO7;A ME300BSP+8K`7GPTMM@9=60Z[)_+<6L^IPMGOCJ7B[0Q-SB)-,=<4^L9,6/"M M'6*]I)(Y<7VQXIIR3R4G_FY-5B+#K)G-FMV-VLI>#UXLC0I/;F;!N08>](:- M2_=4EF.O&G3J3)YY,^H(&UOBAXP*FQUV`OJ5"NQZUR65D24_[C6#I(L-XIVZ MQKLDN;1OF;OANB>)**>9.MPNDM,;&RVA>;]T\-RN?U^TSH";\FU^K5[7Y/7* M_RF4<T[E$J;D(Y.)2\AAW[N9`0GN;M#C%?^X%S5W:()M<(D=D1*X'N)`2WH_ M`A30;J>HZ55I>/!26<5^!9C:X2R$WQH5?[03+E,QC&I#XY,!*Z<4>RTI:?LS MTE7PQC\8BDI(QZ!.0T0TL_B!2WRE:U%7E,&Z"Y4F?'GP$/.26)+Y(5!>4FSB M_ODL`1W&?<U"[0O(D5("CAGMBC3/RYE3=G*_,\8J:_B;UCXHUR[@=7"'-)RC M#SL&P5J@$%D1&YWG("B_[FD1:!MYS\^&Y2X.;E%E'^M0``_904.A2FQFX-U/ M,$8?\`UF5V#KT<MZY"C@C<B*D&O$(Q>YA'LEXXJ)>1`F[V.W]!`1B4$13HZJ M()]9GL^`BJ2;EM#'LQ9N+D#54UN^=B@:9$7#<X1B(Z[X8;]FH**-SGGAY1K' MR#J6[UTMBV';.H2=^`&S#2SBG-%,IS/*G,9\BD03BJ!&H$:R,S>3>@44L2G) M4NUM1(;@7>_DF3(*DJ$H]A-EYJ0YOQH&4!6G;,XH_L=&0_35R$RJ*6'&)CH^ MN0CH%+Q$&2Y?]QV!T/*>533=E,J7KEC:\V`T8QRD9&G16S2O'ERLA6W$2$#C MI!(WB[G<-$TFJS)"CHYJ<J,9=>J8>39R@9($H[_V=D&4EDT>VSLJDM3I1POB M,"WH.)/;1C5%A&)0H/OJ#=MF]=5)BE.!TS'E$R-Z/VLJ1X;&"X0$M[I!M![T MHX.DW=HNR30=-?,_BA/L^HPHCD+!+*4@S:A'+[78>HY%'04=Z3D7%A;$B?2R M3$7;*E=J2_WEL)IJS$5IU4C0,$5/:,W+GS2IJL&7LC6?:J-6'XE5NBQ"2IX^ M@YL@'4E(DQ*S9YP]%\[,_H%0ZU`P=W$B'&,X&,(*`==%YK,A'G"37+[P,PZ6 M]&#?D!I'2OE,5B4][KB8ZT6#M<AE@K,2/<DZ3A,I-FJZ]*U7WQ))MDIUMMX% ME8;2:[3ZKBA?WC(N4/*81LMY\F0)[531/`FDU2ZO2O-R[4K0])$]=I5BARV3 M+Q\82T@6]S^'_&H_PI>I^!9ON\YM4^\"8^!WP+BQ)HN;`.O3)6C&58Z"RJWH M>-C1U':RL@<4$A$?BZ\,?]"=`AVF?0%*18FNIX`)317G5/?(`2X3N)Z@+'OM MMJ_H"D].W-C64`E;U%/R-+PAFY8.9:PU03[%B>"]B.8<FAD/[Y'`8$;N?.LK M_CN5"@S*!*'Q\;`HPFT:3)6\Q>UF'4M"$VKQ>2Z2])I=6E<W]SBUK\4NV%2[ MK5,IH\Z?BW.FLTS>SD$YR>R@V4E=-59AMFZ%O]T?)4&%.4?Z-UE$$R[+&%OJ M/SIYQ-?R78TQ&K.<&11B?0WH&C6MOQFV6<X&SFDU!!5);;+,KIBY"0GA]V%W MP@/9EO5U8_!8R-6A6LF0OK.*VXMN$6ML14!4ZXM'O>-W:G4?U;PTCY?M;_SY M;\':O;&#!WI1ZTE-JT,&\JY_[4"]I%>%A$FG*B4[V$D+[^(8?+C5\%K=;$'V MT$4V]W(%/5,7JY"/Q_`T3P`=\#4CN-\R[S&#+TTK_H0KK1TU].$T;_Q&N4&Q MOS4#EZ7X#%\L$_:F%?-XK9J\;>9Y>+Y)/T]2>EWRR$;=6EJC*>A\$W-HAMU_ M-5]VOGGZVK-/.^PTKM_VR.C@M'>3:-I4L'@SMZBOAQ2(LV9X!6?>;NI*EI:. MUNF282U1/*,XD>+>I$DG;F^`1UOL!24MV<?NZ4X'7+MKI_RG\22F,H-R4M@. MJK.1K.((L4_4K<ZU+>\Y[,-W6-=V5)]Z$X_7JDOX?]_LWLP#Y6>*=XWM,0>] MP#&/_.33_/@N?[3EP2U\@W?FN;Q^>>\;*KZCR[YXZ`9IP'B-^)2JVL2*I^\S M=E_8U%_=T+P/<%4G3%FY_O>SL\-/OMJ5C__\VW_YF;\\-R&L7*EV94`"7C-D M-@Y702/4-$,45>`W*%Z%*7,`>U<5@5WS)>.3)]/'$JBF+0GX=]GW9]=63LTU M.`*A?R?(?"C84Y)W?/>W(^LB%%A&:G>"1G5'.NK'8EWD5HN7+;*S@2)$1A/$ M++OG.#M8;NN65]ZF6W3%7U?W/;A3)M2789I%!"IHA5>(A5D(@Y6G)@9U1T/C M=B+R/^9515K':D@W<M1BAL/15XNE>TE8@"!H80)H8N^&9-F&(P^G21<G3#_& M@-#W4UHHB(,XB!HC=LE%9.TT8<-D70>D@1K'3WNV<MF621&$.AU%-F.R;417 M_D"*9GM]>%E_QGY+AU7,MD2W5WX<5X4RHWV99(&>5W:$*(NS&(NB97D-ICBZ M,G=7$V1B^#%>(F9#*%0*"'&YEU<?ETT0AT^_%%P*"(?LQV(X=E?BYVK5EUVM MN'+P1(O;R(WZMQ/^]V]QAWTZASS8EH`^!8T(XB8`5B>K=H#.(H2^Y4<=PWC/ MB(Q0>%L_^'%PM'&J9QYVIXBA@$+@ICY;V(T'B9"+HWQ@\#0<2#RG<VQQ>(-[ M]51-XC;U.'1M)X\^R&2K2(VR]H%P(EU89UEWI8MQA!0B9W%1]!G"-VZ5LWD) M*9-6>#RV"(N$MHJ*]66(%'CA%"S;,897)I';Q(.H_M=+M@)_>Y)32FAM^9@\ M.I0%Z[=.2+AA7=84#$A@>7:"OS*378EV_$=->4AR]1-1J;1:<L5M@Z1P2)>3 MN_2!&AELRX@V5C5N3U9+@J9E&RE?91AJ_%AK=*9N'(A5!^:/.[6"-GEP6..5 M7?F-!\=\(!:$*!EH:2:"^\@A70240&>6`&EQ&!@]:>@>K:-4?K>$7-:,]'1L M'WE]7T2!Y%(N/LESW@>6-/=,&[.87JF8-:>9-S)7<H>4B_,[^":-E51L&;1Q MU@8R9W9D'&4G579>+Q1O;<.1#+6(RCEE@D!EUTD\Q+EHZ<>07>:2]L6"@2@- MA`>.MZF%N0F+.%>9!?>4_DY'C&]2&C%%BI:9E^LD?<ZX6WRE,!VX'Y;HB_N% M<M+I/>O5=;]48;9#F/$(@SM&),1!GN@YBPM&F_UV.]DEF;H(1YQXF<'HE!%) M74L76>0WC?")>WP'2%^TG*VU=6A%>Y]S8:<SD>]7FN&D6X'4.2EXF'W9/VLD MH86(<_<G6AL(DZ0$9-FYG=#'<AAYAU/W5O=9BJ(XERKYI&+)DCGYHM9)B<") MA%"*HO=5GA^$H[[);^S)I4>JHS^:GBWH<D-:F8BT:2Y:9^#T7@P4<N,'0#D6 MI?TYG'\9@`88GPFJ5Q#RI?A)DLA`>)O(H(7Y>]43)Z88;!8V5]-F)RDG>=>% M_H)+`Q+",E!+@WSJ.9[%=S+T,W09RE7.]W4V%F6C*1E$&&M>ZE@5)Y59FFH\ M29H,]7_#^)Y$M:*V"H?%R8Y3"52:!W"C)W5A*8N::G1BD0Z>ZHUCIW9?`BO< M!*F*YT&M-TELN9FUAGK6.%5S@Y-]&IQ1=G[^V7%>&GM".3!/%Z#J)*XQ2C`# MZ4+T,ZIA6*2ZV93(:J^QVJG8A6^CUJ_/2HL>6*N*&JD7%GEJ!6>_^3KU"6*? M0CD-"(5SJHIH*I)[*9FFAK$4>#3P93$QPD)MZ9BBY((0&XXCNYY?N35I]*]\ M`;#XEV!;.:BDYGWZV)/`&D'#!FRLHZ)3.D]WX8#+_N`JK#D>XPB$C&A^KI>D MU`IOZ8JF:?A>9K6LTVHYDR>(_0BJG@<^*^NOA>:R0OJI69BT[>>7=.@K]N9< M!SJC([JSCB.@;\BNZ@JCA+2P$CN&@7J?R!27WMI#@_890+L+\=)\/A6V.!JV MH6I:7"LY2/2RS:J"Q'J%&ONMF/BJ9ZM<X;E9G4FTR+FHH^B`PK5B34MRQ]E; M9/NY<TBF:E:@>(N72@H40T9P]RJS)V:"LVF3FL:RSNJL1-&XA[NF<9JK!\N+ M$\1NIC*=0J.V!6NN*QEXN/<W,KB4]BEG<1:5RBMO?9<H@W>5=6ILEK9PMF.Z MHBHNB(NRD`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`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`$)Q;5=N?3F MDU(KIA+W?0IM:D8LT#,KTMMLBUS=W81(4/+GIU08>=JVU'\JO0S>>S<3@7;H M?/H=UW+*OU(<8A1LVL2'PD:ZR?[(R3DZ<!!1>659BXZIT;JT98\JF@B>X+Y+ MTU[LS<ILVQ)MJ`Y=RY2]W?CHTS#'6SE\PJ"&V#>W5PW\>J&840T-M'QBG9=J MU1Q\BTZ#(?0M;9]<XPKNXEKF5)FEDY3YD3>,H:BXV[C,M`E3-0\)A@C3=S0L MM\P(O%=];:ULJ4V]*>A"Q1,7G\8*0(-;$0:)Y^2TP,U9O6S"JEU.Q%MCX`M' M_M>L)\AQ+JV_;+%WO88VG'CJ:++]I8G!3+%I;'84[%`J"YJ%%WW?1J@@2;YU M+K8WJKF:"UK&U^6Y.7J<P74'0M(E;>>W+96^^E*:+25C.>OQ*KTO:<Z<I.?] M3*%GRE6AZIR_?;.3B#@X/+*3:N4_1YX4NMJN1LAJ3>B,WG\D6WIWF$\$J2>8 MX\O92V?"Z)Q&6<`W7EBC*W1\B*2+NN+,-L/YENASN>,F[H<G2MRV.WFT7N4% M_V44I\7(UNLV)^Y6*Y?9;1_KRH82SAI;EXHAB?%U&=(97Y4-5,@!&91FV]Y5 M7HEXP.^(_%?T%N9.$O`I]J!>W=K0+-!9/(RJ>ANU_@>D3LRE2E0XM?600F[# M!!B:S%VHT4F&TVO4A%K97-:&L<AIL@O81P4X:?(A=$[CJ;U\*=^FYD;?34J$ M]A*YX?Z[9I?LI7SJ]POD6F[MQ%7DICW2?HI#VJ*K1?V)98[GM_=I_3?`6^H[ M?$3:MLS5--[LQ%?HN4[O6,VZ.ORX`'.0>,)"HV%,AP[OO"F2%CG1LR+,$XXB M/PW('.ZTI5[1JX3:(?)#<WRR,5F'A(RYW8*Z!#ZP!Z_-X!BM5AZ:^R;[ID[V M.[]VCVCBZ+ZB@OL[.GN,M!;O/%TM&_V_G+WYK]_"9%YVZ=[JGC_W[YBM@"_X MU5?8):N0;`:&H3;R[MWJ_GE/\#)Y:&&$LX8XXIP$J.S.2NA\S-D9\Z:?E".N M^'!OY\M([SO*IN0;5^-*`('Q5",;(633T5,QT)MW_\'0$L6D,S>#5,G30M5X MF2]:;O&[H?$^K#2L("?S8$AVR<EPF%D`ER;@E`F5P4;7Y[;8K"Y?S2Z%*N5F MH^"M[2M,O]=.M/K'M+MS:6?WVK\8'P)KK.(*Z7P0$Q'Q>AA!'!^#^%*^SJ`4 M/VYF($LP*1\Q0@?+SL),8[1TT/;"QB;-J+Q<96F]:E/A8E7U+&]ES5I-/511 M%#D;@\E67P!G7T^%USPQ@1>#47?LB.HZDTE+L:;O/F$_.U\CM(9;DR(&H<%P M_JM)OXE[6>W566W+YV8MR]6CI<^6(5\L$"Z[YV(3CTP,Q5%ZAH[=$4%*GL&3 M$S'BL8<CR$FTYB,@PX0&JTT[J4U:R)8N-!7;%@KC)$-8=#TI68A@R7#X^('4 M&118JHEOYO'*U4N8A$J_KAUY&4<=1V-1[]'\8Y$>4E_^8(*#L\X<68<KF(I1 M!DE3-Y$.3LKS*JYM0HQ8U_(:HQ;0J'<^XP6V%[02+J5%YR+.B;.P4F]Z0?;[ M=I.RV*26H_$\:]4:4*_HX$I5#`UQ93:>W*S<'&GQVT-A$Q$<)VV?QQ:E#4=> MV%6FWW9_$Q-M3$@VDH:CD[V#;)=PQJ.Q@,>ES:9X_IN!A+'*O20][3;.'YU= MY_JG6=2<3%$)32\IKTR!K)&]INJ.VVWX-1H'%HK:.^S<2@ZKB)'?D##NO,%J M>^P]@>38Q3KB\K-IP>7$`TR[.99)\+1_BC'LDN^ZN=!#T:)+)SP1X6FNJK8B MP0ZBD91K:*C5GJ(1-AD9!/$S!7=,L)\4TB%Q+]PB!*L4Y8#*9C2G-,2/0]T. M'.<\]!X<+B0?*R0M.>]6LDU'UW@,R$0#S6ONNB$+J@Z/7=ATJ8X/S4G/"&Z\ M_$@WS#:BAJS4\H/LN(%8)#`OS5QKTZ'PI#SS3RHSQ-#/G7C3\DE(K<.0.R(= M:=.]`.7[4K,EUQ+TN<=(_FU43D<?BO)%NN(<*X\ZI_NO2LY^PE/&H>[:9Y@" M<[4RILKN4D,N8!4=\5;)`A1"0N$F%`O'[-:1PK.>M+G0I&<];9'*894DL$#@ MU-LMBV'3%)=/"NMCL;Y#M\JVU7.S/(V_:XTTZJ!2@;S34#5)S0A;!'LL,T=J M?R444R.+K50Z`/7[=;)SA'6S8'>5U2-)=PPD,[0*)RV+.5W-,JNT55F*S5UD M/G85P-[TG,VN@X^"]B(L1_Z4)X`)%ECA<N,%>%Q%G4W*YX;Q6J7@6J?KST'5 M3EY79U'DQ'C:/W/>%EWHV"JHY`'[(ZGD>6$5*5$M0>0Z:&;,A<IL%*'>:N2. M_JD^N\85J4-2N$?O`)7MN']L;=&JG$45K:1M;#I:C=AI1F.R(XU[M8D+SR-R MPRFW,^07*V8U+,#Y73RT(BC]=R%EELO1UH`U17UL9!L?4>AG3ZR2=3/KYH1/ MNNTS/&41,?ZK+\#N'9W<*ZNUW*W+*T_>\LP)*9Y6YX.U,'$!Q;:9"ZRY'.MU M:@UFMSL-5[;YR5B%MW(NN3D_\A_[X%3>+>E!]ZU7FN\FLM.3PW9?__WY4ZWM MS%%2OGQ1)GY).IVUD-4COQFP)0XJ$Z,2N+?"I&X[!PQ<68C7/OXE['-"XM4# MC;4PH.5/1R3<X`E/"*]\-!`<N^,9XC#SE5K]"';B_GGAI<#BNHKP+((0Q`YC M6O<N?=V0![:[7PK3YJT@1>^'`4R._93',A1.D8J>4I>=%E878G6/,7@;X<[4 M-ZK@$'!G*PR."WNX*>R%KBN+"M&6JE@H0(WB<P.SV@I;8T+PY,Z*<?0C_L"D M+BW*3H[BZUD,T;6C[Q'RD%&B8)%"J!#NI2QA`=M0A*28JB)2$7YHDYI>@$>W M<'QQ<C":R1]1F<JR:9)\O8%B&7V(/D-2J$--1%.D'-84EUF-C+63V.:NE<NI ML*^4R0.B)V<6'5TB35K,TAM:Z+$Q54Z3FBC<",,>*1M.,0N&/*0#<L`I,^L) M1H`,K!H4#;@3EV@0E,6D_MQSX/(MBA"R>7DD%/*Z%@4]KK*:_>3DK8H4(S/5 M8T)HM&$,*0D\T^2P>K,)UU,F@\N'#HU)-<KG$?=W,?)X2YF.K!>XEI:],Y(( MCE7<IS]1VK(N>D8J/A3A)0,G/5G6T''A!*&3?M@Y/T6LE=VAW6"PJ+6,GI)Z M="P1WL9G3P;6=*##W.!)4QK5SF"0.;Y,FCX&R42$'LM6HFBA2"EEQ'V=K3I< M5%*EL/71W`P.JJPZJT]X]4D(V?1ZC+NJ2[G*4R0B[7T.A:94J9FU4VTJB9RR M7P_U>IGUA-*B.4-LQ:[95!IN"8&T\^GQ^,>V.KK-DUPU)R*QVM2=7JJM5X%/ M_B:#FE:G:0NP34/MW&2XT-0]4'7BC,D:AY/+B)HOB^2L)4)<*<>7XC"X_<0C M,GT'4F@IDJPU;%!LSQ?%N['V<.LS(V%W6=K6>NVNC_VI+?G61(CR8["BK6#- M<!<[P@&UG?1CGF/V@\^GDC%C&2L5S!PW*^OJUZ]?,^8;1RFR:)BM;D+UWG9U M![3LBC=XMU4:5=BSR$2E\90Z32@8#7G=_JJVJIN<$>!4J9UXDD<T8:VD"]46 M7GOMIY86=9]<C\&T"CMUQL%-WVL1;!4-7X981^MIU?H%$/[:M++FM1[./+SB MQ9)S;'=UU47UA\<.EL<I1T9K-E/LXPA3$J-#'>6:_AZ\QVS$A["_W66.LP4J M>O;IPUR$7KZ:U3@FBY!IZ>6@D3>!3B%"B;Y/CD^4!?1!STEVC(-<2ILMB1^1 MRC?-3PR98#.S)X#^C:AH=NV1#KU.!C\,40YLXVQGB-3B(6>8]=1:.@=\:E@. M"H`F;8^@DXNB>V:OHNI=3ZD;.F-`[Y=DF#79?<[B0$MSY';3Y98BT3O2/BO; MQ^U+]C>OQM"YGEFQA4W6HE-;.1'+KZ.F6K7/PKG4*[($S.Y4B9#<&6/_WB=0 M;JIT9ADMW3+;$+*T_NG4:,G""J:EWBR#7)4-_=Y]4UM[X/;FS]@CXW@#<L0< M190N80H1\"WE;;U>I0DG_C)9A>N8C]-<Z_B"?>YR8:^V93W$,S,,S&4U&]LZ M6+ECR-1+QNJV?B7-VA3Y\$&BJ3G2L90H=(J9$NYV>7.+`RR8M3LOV(JN%MA^ MDQM?:IKM?:;?&%8?M,F-;+&9_%PMKC?Q+*A4_M[INTDG=F<[5,#H^MKK6D^? MTA=N/.YN]G]^YKC9A^KG2587@W2"^9S-EVJ.27)&AJ4ZP5M58)J#4<VS+?36 MQ^OM%D]ZW10[4\Q9RDX#JTV'<$V\Q..^&:%[3>VDA/NP^\H=>FG3[IAS(^&/ M"^?-U_G!HD0K^9C=Y"XBCM=@(EJ8Q"EY7%>3(NL;25$R;ON0R]WB?_YKQLF. M_O>6H7+<T0KIAJ<J\]M?OWG*13?)_;=FQ/>RFS`E\LCS?6R4<[KY?F3C-?;" MZ+T-.D]P@M=>^3(JO._SI-+'=(M8+[PD9W8,8HBX+Y;`JNSZJZJTC`'%:^_X MJ@`/QLG>[G5&9Z?\2?^:KOV(8-MJPK9>I8^.CVIB!L>>9_E.KX2@;(^,!W=R M1\L"K\>@"Y8.JWO(SHFZ9*LFCY=^#I+NI;RXZ7P"T-S^RP&Q9.AN053H3V5^ M3]WZKN/^JCWJ*D\23'*L4`1-D,YL1/584)L>2>J:<*$TC86J9^\8)0SY3-3& MJ]68*=^`SZ&Z;^,\3OBHD/F@K^&^ST7\KO(&1T]P_J+6IHSH1.[D.J+1GK`+ M_<[E0M`'O5#\^.7PQNKOD&S1;,]0*&Z9FJZ9;&*(PG#^`JCZX@C4Y*40"R57 M+"0E0,P$5ROT@@GM-I`4<X`*&0:)B.ZYG(T/)8VF\JJY3([I[*P1>:L`QRX2 M(82IVNP1\6O)*,V+6,__^*GMU.G<EG`:R_!RG+%_YLCH?N/L(*:X:A&0NDS8 M^"[7M(48[^P3*;&L%N_-$LC\8D04^>T4<$@`MPJ&ID`=U]#>$(S`GK'$\C#G M7(P57RSA@DSS7"^#:DS`#'(%I7$4(4^`5N_/WHL,O<L!HZO=T)$"&2^@E"_. M4JX$5:ZV+"@>ZS"5-FX'_I]'[>8GN6A,((N0+]*/"!]-S+[L&[]DK33I[22P M)=WLRA[2!;4O]CH,@,8JX`+JA322=!:L[F(NR;I*?&I0&(T+\$K+#^Z0O#J% MRRZM#S40N\IQG2:/G<01"@O1-N9Q(CN(S!#/H]Q,G03NS4@2(@]-UHX0%0ER M-X+(VBS%#2.1(5TM)QVR(35P)`4,T,XA$(WCH-XH%Y'N%DM2)HDIO@+I1L[I M!<$K`<<P\HB+'2./Q<(,IXSEP&00[(8+[9A2"+WO_%2LRMSOU0*A=Y*)A'+N M-,ULX+BIVJ;*+&%2/7"R#SULX>3P"K]C(2]P*2-G(@D.'KD,!H.,_%Z.Z>82 M_@'S\8X\B-M6DKUTZ"G;P-"L*9`*:!.YTU=,DRIIQ"*)JMCZJ"OU`]@@;9,T MR""O<?,8DS*%#P!_<"/E!>E$I^L2KR_7!0BSJOM^21%_J73:0>PJD1/;3A<% M)13M:V:THE?.,R;?X_>BCQGZ`FU(C\;$R#FRC?E,RV2(<P!Q<=;*8/26QZ_L MLJ"^*?Q"#>@^\N!L\)+";1EGKL2N4[DZ[S"F)))@T:W(X$$YZ^%H#C&%"Z`\ M;<)\J^?N[A\_JCRI:Q!+%#+5LD3?4J8(L>1@DC\+%+MJ,Y]\=!?%4SL7U/'B M$+DD=)X^JQ,-L*5P;B8^D,K^9]^P;`G/\-\NK]MX_M+I3BO:@%+2;NY'\V?_ M<+$="3-00XKV[`I)M0?W[&^6`O'O&,G4>*F0Z.Y`BVW*5+)1IA/VL+&MH$:> M=&[,A.VXWC,@-4V"'@\+7;'X'N>=?@TEN7$$[PP4:V]158@B_^^\'O`2C7!U M[,T"'77-U$A^>L=C0B4[OO""MLD/I[0;C=4?62TAU;,O-]-7EN40.<Y)"^M: M835657!R=DRA?!,C@>Q*.Q7BON(H:U`+]='$V)61@I3$9K$5-56M$M(IWTIS M2B@V(U45@[5HR+(%26<(M?7B!L]?@K$U;55*%Q,6"'`%R^V[UK/B&&K9X-#= M4@19KZY\L`PU[>5!UZ98_A9HIFHRP$1T.$E68`^SD:#4*4?*^$!,!"7EIG)0 M3/$OZ6864.M3-UM1#*$K2<FP2VGK!HO,(H'2$H.1N#!5T5)62$U-*#,Q/IT5 M<CY5]C:U9E3*/<_P8,$Q`=$3.JGT[+!I*\>QZBBU82]35M@,-Z&.JOIS`X>2 M$"O3!J7VQ.9U1$]49M:Q6!'N39DU.,/,54M592LTTT3.2]Y/\.#RGZ022*^H MU6C+&]FJ<3]/F":T8W4O$_GN)"-FX&8GLB[(70611".4]\"K*6E5/KT,1^_P M830G4^B1`Z/T+_GT6Q_7<(\4('?O3<9L0!%RM`ILO:H1=55-,`CPPLZU0"&/ M_N7")W8?Q$@ATE6GCVK!YA\[]#/!-5_=S7J=]4=O<D.M%DBA-';8;U=&<:68 MMZ'4UV[]2S\7J1VYL$S#[G@9:R`#[1T9%0\Q:F)037"Q=:-$U2+\,4=5-VR< M\/-N%_54L$[*S?]"576>*Q9?<TYV4/6T<GB+,K>,L=T:L#/;]RV=BZ2*=V?Y M*1MQQ=B*-ON";MW\=U7J"#8=SCK7CD1!=/FHUGLST"^WMO%JU6LEX7<43V[A MELE&>-*TB$O]0'BC[B'KD4Z#EUS,+E/-HXTXCTG!U#^.5+YR$!OT#P_K[@;[ MZ@GOSR49V(R?=7/[4>QTIM?&9&ZW1B'R*C3E`7/;_E!7T:^#/15YJT"G4!56 MKW*.5UB#0PZ-FBDKX`]J"UB>I#!\`NSK?NV,)9D;2_/KIH0/7Y.`G?A#",P, M+\O@-#-C\56)M3AH:315_\]L0V6__E6H`+A-:^V*E5`)W2:3:Z*^?@<V$ZO2 M?C=$QW:2<VQ9]=*!*YA4Y[,:)^MLE33\=&TSP2\?E]>2EMA4T[4*52Y^B!>* MHQA.,92&!]@4"5A4Z$AJ3/$[.959`PN84VIBZ>67]Q>VN!0A*VHZ2:W:KN^' M-==:\!-IE52,M:V1U3!XV)<%@Y1P6[4Z9_A>8>PB?"/3(!D`(#JB)7JB(5J' M*?JB,3JC-7JC.;JC/?JC_D$ZI"<Z;"NZI"_+H[_%I#>ZC,U3I2L5+4V:AD3X MK$KZ9BTYIEWZY=*VHDW,A$7ZIVO:FS,4?B,Z;*-)8"(X3H7:.I6(7CN*[AQZ M3X%ZI:>ZJJWZJK$ZJ[5ZJZ_ZGG&Z8T.XJ(]1HO=U?H-Z@U7ZF9*7N<[ZJY4W ME6$%JM!6&]M:K+7R/XPT@G$:8MV:>A@Y0@^TVXQOI(':HL6:JQ$[L14[JPV[ ML"_Z@;]:CFF:4B-#49&,?A^;K(.:IEB3IZWL"%UZL34:=%37K@_[L,N+H<49 M::GQKY6UED461\/9?+%:NQI;M'$[MW5[MS%X/5\/)_7SA1V&F@E[/Q/)0Z6M M_J]GZK1WVY>$6'`[R2I_CE>3BFR$;);K:Y&E&J6WVHB:^[O!.[S%FPL)&SU7 ME*)3&Z?*.Z?'*+3]9J_W$J;C4@`7;T=Y&[U)*E`UV[3C]#&+6[/56@?/VG/H MP[43^F41F+FI&K]-6[P=_,$AO+:YFXKOJ>H$&:SMAM)DI4CW&ZC:M:X'L[XC M.[1S.RV]\L:>)BLW6Z9N=$?GU.'`658SVH$=F\0C_,9Q/,=#6G8;'+,[S.TV M>R<OL)Y'?,7;>FJ\Z^KN-W=+/*T34VU1>[8;&F5__,CS&Z/'-Q^@6JF_\V91 M$,MK?,9U?,S)/,=#+;)O&O>.F`U/.SL;'+Z3&[B5_IL9K?Q4%%R?ZC.\^1&D M97B0Q3Q[.1',JUBH`UN<%URT[T^_RWS1&3W,Q5S0V[RGV-O(C5S#W#NF9LVS M?DS3F<J*2V_WQ%&'F9G/!]RH>B][!?32,UO%EGIOZR_2'7V_&WW6:3W"0U== MX^+8]"W*>2IJ@YR:*[!B?[''PV6RX=L,-[S6_SR64['2_7JP95W0%:.UPQE< M`G-B%;>CH5S9N;W;M7W27\+3T=S9D[0WA]TNTWK<W?*4Z=Q:^9O<X:O#;9S4 M%UN10;W.05QNF'S2"4:)"!R+[URK;]O;"=[659.3`5Q5X%SC^!NQTITO$:88 MSV\2(;`@:_J8_'N\V]C*_FV69:,=OX&]@)V4B;!]WG<<P!]]?`M^Y1O=W87) M8LU5S2$9V2?0PN#<B#E5:(&EXN^4X\M8S^71I;+V\>+OOW4UK_M;3SF:G27< MY%G^Z0G^`,W1TH%N@[-3:+-*WCMQYE'=LR<NR(^>W+_9G16[?6M6_4[:Z-<; M'S=KY'W;J:K2Z:%^[KU=ZC%1WN5;P\>]G&Y^X2F=BJ]KFGV>TED]="W,P,F> MJ]57REP1ZW[59^VHJ7G7GUF:NU<=TND^\VG=BB5;O7'+$L]2YOL:;@2_N7K= M%U.XW'$0[[_/EC=1Q_V-U^DGPP5)]%:?0@&Z7K.=Z;^\R.4^\34_^+^];TH' M_F0-#^5'T]@;U:J>5.*ED/8EF/!W[,CCJCG'G"C?'=.%+O0M/^*E/*_]F5$I M[Z-!5?C-_[NE%O0W=O3W\A+;$K6/Z>_3_7`5WHL@=?[Q'9=5^^&OGW`&G\<( M(#BFGMF"8U#.VN;-&>H=]A,Z$4*&%+J,B<F>+QS+,UW;-Y[''B9=E@\(7'UZ MPE5).$PJ*\L(DD?Y47M5D)79($X9(*@VR-MRMD5DUMC2L6E@EY/K5/S@:Q<W M*LYJ,)[Z'5U8%U.;3:!AHN(B8V,.X)&1I%37VU6EW=+3'L=>59Q:F&52WF:0 MQ1CGYQ?FF:L5Y1RBX^'+'1HH3N!HKESIF1]?<!V<_LKIR6RB23)ML_,SM$B: M;R@QJ_#DG##U:BB*-6%OM1IUL>9U-^'G9E^JWF5D9K0.R:UNBO&T.O:KN[=> M(4%RI,E@5JA(N'D*%S(T1`D<0$EI1)WBQNY;N%+;,,7+Q?&<OG<@]8W[4\;/ MAU3C).;3U#"@-C9@DJ'[5[$D'W\Q=Z0P2._!P)="AQ)%9@J8*I=$<*VKR30I MR961-+(B4R+=S(M>5G8;!<P54BE!ZX'ZA:_H#)\$C=I<=]'?0YCF?*I]U/'N M3K1Z][KAQS$B-D]^;1X=Y#5;5L-XVL:S6%4J64CMR'S]:@HGT&$3^9JK03?D M,2I8S,+M9*]O9T&J'SVU_I6Z)>?81$6*!:U-<DN`3<65EG6D-U:H*JE.]3'0 M'>5^(,F.Y`V+I>Q[=MOJ+DX:IT'FR]B2DJFXS1N/T<<W2U>8*WJ+^\)[*];U MIDKX@B^A&2XN*NC)PY1'#GU?("Q8D$>+3J-A)%YM!2;T$W>*"/C:6K`-.&%Y MUC6GQ'O"D00/?5MI1-A!'"+8RDW+<?(;1929EE(G$W78XH'S6<8<A=.M4=-@ MC\WW5EYR$7.0:8M)&"%%OF5&9(U).A+?8]?\LYM6^9%8F%.-K2=?=1]&Y&2' M^LU8&GOMX:-@4$I.)R4DSFT$W%DT'7D;D#WR)">$8\IE)IZ>H7=E)H<)YF)& M_M_YR66@]CEVHHA58GC@&&:485]94,74:&UUXCD+E,4%%A";BT9X(Y`T,A++ M64;VE">J#.*FI5MBU;=HFKS0=@QB&UF8C3PM$K?KE)6MJ"*4&;[:RZP;7I:J MG`)6ZE(<7:XY*70[N95/73"T``Z=R&IKUZH8X=9>K&KZQXM[W7U['&2()8@H ME7?1!NRC.5YIEI4Z2;HM,M,.4F)!.VX*("XCJE9MFWT.B1J^"1,4UVXZ=ENO MIK=6:N"FP@;J(:#H1OJ627V4B..U=NX8RX\S647P;.4"!NF/^]A*:K;2!-S0 MJQ1;^A+*"L_9+3R%%AEN=Z8.6UT3AZJW944U8Z9T_D[).7T2T5:B:6Q8%NJ+ MKZBKB=?OE%(9T]IV1;4\],$ZFQWTG[8=%[6"_)83G)C7\3@8*IX>IMTV7C9' M--*1?F&>2/"UG.K@0O;\9F*&SAFS7B&KN-F2!K^8\]D`/ZMIHG!*[!S@N"[6 M9-Q!NPKCY%;G'6]*I((*M-'!T$TNW%B7.E?1_;(GHM!<<W8W=#/7,CC9GE;N M798?2=U;$[Z!_='?A/&=;IR&A^IR3E"/,.W#TT><N9B<?ZSS@];>F9NW/U>H M=337Q7?F4D$R5CW,PW_>J[S!!;_T]QT5#_%V@2,?+/^>DSH654U6YCJ5Y+"T M&=9Q:G:H\AVUI(2D>AS-_D$WB]S7HG0U\?EO3U6"H/P."+K$X`IO?!*>4PR( MN;0Q"6UJHA>)O*0X$+K):^GYEV*(P[@!A2DU6>.@D&SHC!ZFCT_84M6?BM7" M$+JF>!W<7Q1:L[D(EL^`+0Q>Z71XGH[]BH!56PVV<!2B5D3-1-C;88WJ4L$W MO6\L-_CA!8>(,8204"T!8QKOU,9$HSQQCG^!50;OP[OV^>QY$M%AN/JF++OM MIV,O"N3LU@@F6F70641,TO66,<`!>F&3=$02&(.X"!!"@UX?VAKZ-.27+F5J MCU74G@G])HOW3*Q<@K2D4O07PP!NC(P!^M7&^@.J7I*KDK8J$J/^HZW4T<&3 M_EYT)D+T!$/PU()FN7)A'!M!.5=>+E-O.V"N8#<2]8#(>8P4V#?71:D5!>ED M)D*E$WWT+!JI,VW+?-0M6,0"?>JN=VSTSK[$YK8>%0Z#>>3FXF3ID?T9R6*Y ME-Y3K"B/K'RR;J3S62#!U`[YF&I@M&+HUYS4T=A)RX$\9"90HIG)?GZJ5MM4 MDCUHB%!,(M.;['I0V%XF.C$P+($415Q"#-G3RCB*F>ZTV!$39[S^70Y<LESB MI<`B@HJ>Q*.@%-BHQ(>S@@V3E#,=3[$`J;G,B$9XS'+7-]8UTJ0HT654^8.O M5*I0&#HJ=+6CX"J3!2"SHC$Z4E4!2CM)53U)KZ\-_CJL7TWZ59HB,)G*6V'M MG"K"?>&QC5,<UB'15I6X)D>G5--0V,9F+D4Q;5Z]A*FNHHF*:SE3JV43Y2A1 M^\_7+E:@$169/P7IPD3:R92765Z<[A=%!:)D,D<=YVE=$[$=;+1,,;K7-:.* MDI1:H[5PY(EH:ZL,Q6JWB$OU3S@-EMGY3;%\D,TM]_A5PC7QQU[`;==WDH<' MRTA6N:]\:>.@H-JKL!81:D1L=Q&6W0`+Y79B[1S;CO58=6A,BFUM[&?A-]UG MMA.0N"MI1AW"SE;13Y[<)0\T^ZN%_>JUL6DB<#5/1<?X,99"2J5=0\\C7TDM M<I>/#(]NE&K3)^@-7N5`_B#>BGG))GK,N>-3<71A"DW`[I>?!`(PBIN(%U3N M[E+)0U=8SWG,TF%&F845%V9QAYQG%G6+#PV9S#Z<YE>@$)*=&::9FDQB)W?2 MFE'>V9'6%^<]>VZA2&Y,:*,54&*:;I=SC6P,R\S%1?8QBX!:4%HV/&,#,_5$ M<6:*G$6<RO_>>;L^;BIL^8)?.6;XCP73Y<Q`M[T8F[=DE&SK+Y[6#YP^]GK4 MB]8W[_'I0?N0MDJF;C,U3>I1N_)Y]1S?D!5"[//5.+*/U.TI#7P\4Y_8=96. MKT8U4T!<SK"LD-*PGL4+K67+C]SD+G8EVMMG@-EZQIV&R7N->.7OT=*<$%LN M_H\4E;?.SLBMW90@RQQ"X3+F&9+G?C?"=>V)<"^,U^]V-;6]K#(@"RJXK2:K MZ7+*P%D34-O0+J2UZWE*:MHZ?`4_[,'MO)"4HQ@Y%2888!I'TV)*S5_Q[/(9 MQTHH5@O7C!WH>"T-4Y^`R\VK:>EWM;MZY(0SW<Z*UA%J6!Y"-->1HY3%MLAB M56]Z]A;D.S6NQQG]QU6PJ>@D_W0!/<PUJ3<=X?SVMF';#FXJ0F1^XD3PN-Y9 MV&K;DM#5:V>G',UM,FUW"/SN,RF3+??%`W2>@F:\-L%YQ^0F<-R!23`)%^3; MP+'7>D@W]0I)8[^X&Q-8/D;[K:\*^=7S,>Q68;VR_B'\8J8BK8]K[>!I:>WG MW&F[N?*:VPRQ`\Y(?Z['96\\[),/;^&37OE1/_.?U\+UL>=/A6U&]637R?%' M:ZG#.N4RM^;9XXI3V?GF+_TQS_^,,%$,$$3/'W@':DLI=CV)`5ITWFOO>/J6 MW.'/I[VD?1Y_0,O%J!_C39*1&6!LE1:RO<;*$->%F!!#"1YV@-U0,<9/L</H MQ=R@55!SN=P5$98",ITDJ=D(`A0`YA7W89-8T1M>G,;RY1LP`9V"A9?PM0[E ML06'D<*N(>#^\=4)WIG2!2%#X-B4>=3T34^TI1):B5)_Y%#O[<>_]*"]M<T3 M*I8PC1=<-,KIN-?2$6'+_CD6&)82]*7?$S:8UZD:&]5=9LW*K$%-5"`%;J6( M4ZG5X]F8<<A@C06?#Q84[+'=&)I?D'64!T5<C*0:'C90ZP%:(PG@QX5$.MF< M\=@.\-G?!JK/WBR8E2FA8Z$,(&YB(*:,Q4'@Y$E??045)=X7M('%")U7KDT< M]NV@E+7.\5E.'QK>_GUB^)D@)1(<PC1?*+J8I<E1!F8>*G)4SMF&"_J7#H[, M#+K/`QZ.%IH6:?5B]FD%R(C?#R+2%X+5UPG0-,Z6.`;CV?3<6/F:]NP4I%D6 MU_50=OB4'L*AZ4U-$+$A$Y94T*5BJ1BC$,6C#[K/$7H7^="<*0ZBOZV=(K9> M_NP8'3EJV"@&TS:*(8?]U+41H.4=D9]=US>:WL\%("?BCY2)UXWAF9@IE-7Y MGAMFW.7QHG2DF")*&]PP)%!A816R2T.2FDWRW,7IEM51&0!.9%X`#^VL$<=, MF$=.(03.(4&QU1VR(/HURS`ZXP\68E,67E7&%D_BEQ_.XOM0TDUFE42:V7IU MXE"^)'25W[Q!'.)1(_P\3AEM7@.ZXQI:T`;-)3ZJ`NHQ)7X,6S<"HU79(!`1 M#]`YDAG`U55^Y5RZDTOYFR-BF%>.I=(XCDFA6<5AT2])55YB&2KZH5JVF<F1 M%66VX,EAW0UNSK=$'J)M%68M(D\1'RZB7?O0%PXA_B825J;CU0HN9HRX*1,` MK1FAJ5`6JIMPZN9N@1Z3#=;*0<Z0)*#..:-:B1;;<=X\,,-G0!C=2>';S2!A MIA]M8F,!@B#&T`WOB>3P94MH6A70G%,';-A&2:48D4R%R1><Q5U%]F6=1&9> M?1`A6I"EZ>)2-B,,4F=K<E8`/IW'^:4!UM+QW:(LFF3T;.0">4\#\4ULXI_N MU1_\$5G'C6/A-8Q>>2(2*HY\[N?<:='Y*)>`"A&#YN(S+DMW5LQ6?%]I<J'? MW:5U>@X11:-2XJ;3*)H9A:==)2"%%=ANDJ'=J2"('!Q^SHU]-AQ^$-O=<.$5 M9"=LOJC!R6A*.B+#=5U._I'ECH7173),1_I*:5I8TJSC/KU<$<))_^GB<_K= M:F+E0D:?N]7C7[J6A#@+<F7;EEHIDZXH"$+5.3[F(DJGQGG?*[4E=D9<;RYI M\0'D=&;H5G+H?>I=%M;IW$6DKF#@U!B(1FI5*Z;D5/*CG^I81&ZAHF*DEZ&A MIT(49(J"Z/GH%S$J,G:-0K)DIEIJ5;%F^'T2U"W?I!)6U>%HAU&=WN'JG5JG MJG&@GTH3<3'HZ:EIKT&98U9:SX"I@[$GX&'I0.$><[*8D6*K:`K$-A59^9$J M6"[H#9E9ANS>F:RK93IELS:<1"'@=K8-C$5/3%$E6K7J"!U>8RHH:.VH9T6J M_HSU'YXJ'%WAFTQ:(T3ZHR2.GAC^3G&B9_7-JXU(XHR&W9:]FF8ID-+U7%*- MU'I**3K5YG\PH#>.J+=PIK]$FKTD+/+!HJ-)WH_>IL2AA7^&FO+QJ0"-G\D^ M#F`^E]8L*R$NK.@UDHP>+(V-5ZGM+/7<%G+69K`6ZUX%&FI>ZX+)H7YRZHTH MIE6:I>*M7S:1X#4&+3@Z4L=*;*WEH,6VG_F\86>%3IB5YZ`0JD\.!2)>!4LR M:YJ=4)Z&;:T68[J`J021*YJBXR96K=P9;9,@G85"3BG6U+2>&!H>V,]:CPKJ M:=2:#TM-+C4E%'K![*92;%S$H)*JDK?636S"H]!._L'<RJSLC""@HBWJ&>V$ M.FTLH2CO=A[AE=;R9"G%%23]B6"3(FA@NF2V)J1#AE=)_EL`@>N%8>RV]*'/ M?DG,&N']W*-=FET%MJBN\LJMQ>DN(M:Y,2?%&E:[`EBY0J'JYEL><6Y([:KL M4J^HR8@V#N?)N%P'>ABGC2?5=I%'NE%"3NX9IB-"%JTF^FWYJAR:EDG#3A!N MOA-2T<_(S2_C*J[]%A%LSJ.]-DT<W@OES*=O29C<)FD97IPXE2U_#FHU0>W? M7C`+_^)OF>FW'<I#.ND&5V_:=J&:QA7'UMTNY"R)&B)[R="\*:7#Y*N?</"Q MJJ9`&2DC4>0RDF))8$I4_NZPE=''[0JP^N`?QMF1:UX,V5'IYI)7*VGF7L;> M&ALLIDJQQ6;L9'TCIZ*P2$UJ!&MQ8GVP[YGP&2OG;,(@^OQ8JA8FQW;/ZMP) MZ*(O6)XB%",OI2*K"+9CZ"FCJ.JQ$`9QM&)FY-+H:&;=;&T6D'V)MN:=B?$8 MR@+O\38O1<EA<LXP*&I,NS0:?!D3)A<;JK;G]?;QR$GG<UUA(O:PK)E3*5[8 M]&FOFS6R5&[5U,4?K]"R^-KR+<^46\JC'P.L[RXE%F/MN!2SYA8F#4Z;)N[G ML!+?ISHKK7UF*,*9-PO5QTYSI_DJ>*HMH&[J:0S8^&;E@/IPN[YBMKJ)JD(R M_GF!9@:?8$6*7/3",#Q[8Q<#L99>,[$^7O;\)OZ2F34;*_9EM+$6-,D!)$,J MM/W.YT*CVSQOJ^U>\ZSNU77N'@!U\&VZL[1-5$BJGNA&B6^.M(`MINJ!-$ZG MZP`WM/5J1IBN])_5WC#SGY9=&V4^6U%SKW0LL;-B91%;Z3V?ZQOW]/W2<Q!O MXZ)-K_QE'M9V]:*&\$>AL0.6V&&"ZI$FK@8;KR23HR`#<#/N(\JM,E:?;13^ M+NL^!XPDLP['*#_+[:\^%1W^+;/`ITJ3[IZ2'D<G)EZ33Q!6]0&#VI)"\%O? M-6%6:4E[\%X[$+[6+2H7%;P\L1':]%U)<V/;*/GV_D7*22`@WTR7KEX&WDK? MN7`D"30F#\=1F_2_2B&QIBB;4I^4NJB#KBJO9=E!QDRHIC5-"^LH[NU+\32( M&3;YE36/LL352#<8YL$F_W`V=PK&K605*RTGR:+6ONHVK]5Z>:BQ9;$NU&6F M7K`Z=R9N#P_AKF_SI?9=$]GI;+5AGC#R'"9,9M\'0@]XZ<NE&JY=F=4*FR;Q M-"])6N35#:1=5\Y2,[@^R^]^$Z,)WRX?Y^5F_O%><W*$F5=`67:7IK%7:J;P MOFQ+UC==8I=]:7>5S61PL]1Y739FHV3P#7`(<W,+KO`7&[(K'XY#/>#'5A;* MVF)^"O6#6]-\>_99TWB-_BOPUAZX7]O7AK]17I]JAZ>6/9V:YPX7.,?G.,<V M\Q9DJ%':*1.VFN=Q>%,Y@UBYV4YK-LD4C.^WAWMW@<_C8KN9,6O@HO8;'0NU M_!+<'8OYQ(&?]Y*N=C/CX@2HCA/.(#?@BN-96V\Y5YXTY+J>=\ZVT]J=&<LF MG5Y2ULS>=TEY$W/GD;KLID.J6_?N*R]6\=+)J7\R+&NZHV>N.J$D2)958NMI M=].@+&/Y$L<K%-THI+<I&>N1-:ZVX,ZZ;>$MA-OUD,&1`>LZN'$Z/YOT'SO7 M/].SKVH.6%LZ7:?X,5XU-^?H:W/Y<)=WZL6Z;)QOI5YC'(G*_RYG<VN[PG;J M_G>7[J'QEO/RX*!/]/5)KDV>RS&*]%PSL9O_#O8:"UHFJU3/K)QJ.6A?8;S= MN0D.,;]W]')W,CW&VB*+C@?K<B*S=.XZ)IVO;D(YZD&AH.L1NCI#7K"N3T&C MN81W+P)__(-S,5<W%:P=A2D!+6ZY6K('=W#"WU)XTM9XD8.:.JZ*=HA5O5'5 M$)>O:5;AL4H&<+/]9WQ-IL]'GL!Z.;>)9VF;3(&"6G'+I;,5X!0;Q^O98BLJ MNDQ\X)*1N"O/^8MGO;077$]Q%YJ+<9R/?>0XS.\.(!].`S(/>Y_RW=&CL"[E M<'%M4MRT%Q5JGF?\G-5WOM.[9D$1?HV_(S%S8C5'_N*Q?.;I&CXS,U`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`@R(Q:KA55.8.@/I0E1U8CES(.D'U!>1F#R;)G.%_% M)HZJ@/*<.ERYRF9%FU8M36'`CL9$:H4HN;%"YW:ZJO&GQ64,!Q(58^SMV8PR M_D]6P^=4F@N>F.P6Y7J4JBNLV:`UK$KWEL.HGE0FMI;3Y%K2I3D:%EK3&P.E M)D-6Q<M3H[T>@#U^E")8IVF=)9,^G`;V:\5VSH3,-/WVGK_(23_)E*@NFANQ MGGE?QTZFV4U3_(Q#4G[/-;_)!GN1#V;535L]XO.&[^?2<&?@3:EI#BY;*[)( M?N'"@@^GC@R)ZB-!(O*JE-`0/"D[!Q_D@KO<T@.OC$I<*P@)K(`BJ+^VN,GK M/0V7FS"D^%XJ+SA1*@*.FO4N.4Z_>5:S<!W,NK*/NQS#^BT%T5J$,$@AEYIP MJ!$]K$>U$W#*(Z<BT]GF+^:.1!*@<>[:+TO_P+B+_IGZJGMJ16X"/(;,*2F+ M,$3'MBF0P.<\ZRXQ4(2[;$@[[Q0M1"4[#*PL\V9C*ST.;6PG(?20PV1,ML#) M"HTVQ_LL-#JYPK.5P4BD]"KT>(P3@G+$VJJZ2D<E]<%-Q2E4(-O@I)+1XMIC M9T1SS.SO(%IQ%(6B3U6,B$4MPS#S5N/"0]3)"N-D@D!6.]61P5*?Y:U)!Y&S M2,E9#@JFV+UZ0M6J3&'DTBVCY.K,0,[D_#2UTBI#*$E4)ZN20M0VF75!$9N! M-E]]PX5Q)@ZWRM-&>`7U;\UN82N//W>^&=>)7-')-<%E]TQ+V!.[:3*?J;CE M44"O?!5XI7U')AF>-<T#_E$U0`@-:M4257TQ4!35C3"ZPWH$F>"X3!:HW6]K M/<7$?FXU5$3+:"XYZ5(-_@]F/VJCCB]CBQWH:"LS]*7:EBS.X2NF'%9P8HIY MEE$[:[%^^>)7+<M,&Z.Y5CKN2@?FLVRZC61/8<>:RSD*:66>&?`:O69P,?PH MK#@;N)^4[,:4B2S;'X`%S/!QN2_?-U@H3X6:Q*Z6H[8W#PEI^5<A%UN2K'2M M0SQQ8;C^6))#G[QZRQ>56QQSW;&#KZ\B?:>RS$<H+5H_EN>-LD+3[13S0#<G M%9GI=<W.<V@C_Z9-1K['8'=W[TFC%3;K14\42IIM\TG<W]U;WV^.Y[;!K!RE M_LLM=^Y'O_^FY/VEG=\-T[[;]P1HJM<QB3/S`0KI,$(Z>M$.1-1:F?D@.#;X MM:9!SL,06)!V.>_XCFK7"-_:6&&_`98P1AN+SY\T)BO(82-T(A3>;=A7&6FQ M0V"D:HJ/\`.5]:#F=,":G#;P%:MXD`E])D2B?!H3M6<`#%X?Q%_RTG:[*4&- M>+6KG.R6!S[HH4LS#G&<`#?UP'<)#D"_Z-X6D[C&53P1:Z3H6[;21RBZ/4XW MNZE>U1HX1L^-2B)>/,QX0L;&8<U0C4K<("$5::GA<8M_V]N-]")XK/,$+VH$ M*YZ4$MDPM0@'CCE<71A)."17G8@0H[3)(E5)O03>_BN,4TN?VY:X-ELU4G24 M!(FVS.C'!=''DZ`ACGI6F:9A%M.8F<BC_MBSK1LM4'(%.Y)N)JFGUIV&D;/S M)2`A>4SQ5?.8WTPB%$]EOBQ&DX5(>DTSW2C%TO&/@A`"$GT"R2)W6@Z<\;IG M/K]7-/VY$U.F!%T0Y;BW#KE,0K5#)8J4THE'7?)?^H1H1,$903\Y:5O8.ED, M\P88OMVP2VC$(P[1E2P$M>EZ6I-H2E6Z1O>U$X\*/!ZLY&A+2[Z1-<@49K[H ME#U[?F>E/P6J&&'9SUO^$VTTG2G[DEI.Y*TS<QK<21K_D]"@5M6J:/D9`HU: MMW/RJ7R,:FD]M2A#JC;J_I!IDNI5U;I6WC%)0@;[*"TUF3>C(72.QL);'^=V MF;+NC*U_!6PG%?>Y)I)S'HH:GW<&2UBDT;%_*>UK8"4[V1G%;&(-U,LY!Y8P MQ!:P<S%M:2RY2EG2EM:TX2+J(Y4:(.!EKYF:Y"B@^+C-T];6MJ<5)]O,8KM6 M/9.Q>.V<'F%9M9VE];;'1>Y*PQHPRG&.DPR+Y00W9U%O56\^R<5N=M7:2A52 M#J?6S:Q8R[=`9BI,2P0]JW;5NUZY[;&B%=UM#>/RPL4R\[K,E=K+;A@S]O;7 MOT+]''4/FAJ,6JV*ZAKO'?]40.7E-[+_A7"$UP*=@]GTO@D#:5<K&9N!MD^8 M_IO]D.>,*V$2EQB>^+4A29/Q/[7E5ZF]%2Z1SI*Q3(S8Q#?&L5EG5SI1VM2P MZC.OY<"ZI`Y[$V\I[E:.E;QD1.K7E?#%)D/(6%?.!EA*/PL:3=:YEP`RV<M? M/N-R':M:EKT6IPS#<I&#RS@M^M.\,`1SG.5,S-FNSX"A3>PRJ>A$-;TV913U MZ3@C-V="%]J9<67N03_:.$M*E\%E)".+^4Q#1QK:TI<^<`==>&<_Q^:S(M9L M5(],X`.GL(?CPW2JE^PRII+/@&?J;(7QJCRJ]?%IMZ$*9F>39E7WFL2QDF\6 M%4NON^TWH#+%,IZON.59<UFT>O5UM-7;RD2[4I9#_IS<0Z'XJEN'MJ<P`X^C M66UC:9>;LE@*MCI7R]AE%]2<LHUQ+9$G7/K2&'$/-G>^5<E`#U?[U!E`6;/5 MK>>+'O79((;O7*478F,Z3]\/[X)3$^Q2ZG9ZO_76$UQUMCV#^L7;+93E/14+ M<9+7.,/V[9BBS?QQ74H:2Z'6<UVGFUG^7DO8;`13,$L.\5J+]]I,]+$X"^[J MF#KMV6SNL>0&U>=!LQ1D0MMYM)E]RK&V?--\+>>H,UX(3UEXJ#5%>7G+K/1) MAU.;_(WZI8==:K]MI]5(;F37#U1Q:5K;J5%,YYK16YRE;Q)S.QIYVJ6-\@T[ M&\I'C?)C&`[<GG7TU&VN_N2:&8]A62,QE%`7?*$/'WFO^WS1#-ZQE1/URTFI MQXT)]R!=(<-AW7KO80OY=N9OK/<H1;K'<I>B^YI#U*-]/H-E-'W<>\:Q&0.- MG9:_X,]E+^>OPEB(5^<CD35T874Z=IZ2XM5H=.G;MF%+RDOE\SX]"?OT+C^Y MW9VDXT_N4-R<(,J'4O#T+]B:6[PWR6)57\#1"=O"[&XX;N\R\XLPRJ,F_&N^ M:ILFQWLKF,LF72&<%=HSM-D[+"*_&(.\OW,XV,,\`3R_JS,Z#&LB,@,@3M.T MS<$L'5&62)F5K^L\X],_IANNO&NO^ANYV.-`Y**VF?(Y<#L\'Z(ZH$L]WW!` M_C'1LO?A,>*;I0R;M9#:I<2!&T'SKAO$K1%LM5<20=X3,-S0F.*CGP6D/PM: MP=^K.`TS)YO;B&^QMW<Z(S3YFBK#-RE4I+:Q0&"[/Z;K.I>:%^T3,`H#I>=X M$\0K*E9+E:O1M0V<.#5<0Y0*#%+S(3B4+$130O8KP3J[+DW+%$"S1&#ZHB', MQ%'#'@(LP0:CLO[CK<#)'4%K1$<$K.:CO$.\PIO;OBR<D^<CO[`IJ5WYO1U+ M-W*B-#LSL*S#L\!I.G#ACX]Y0U7<)PEDO$9#,=`)'?LC05AK/^?8H=_P-^D: MLP93E+';NG<#L0%J*'XJ/V1<)83#)'4#0??`ID?2_L7?P4+H$94O'"DZC+EU MDY<D_,8->ZGI>0>-LS)R!*K8"JBA:T;V>SXK!$*Z@SXP(3TPM"4ZM")\$L2B M6SRF.48O0*5J++B+!$B2^<$W:T'=*\-K?+5,%$EB&#\PNCP)JD.]ZD00BB*- MRC:_RQPP4DB.[,BEB3=TE#7[4T!)Y#1:?#7,\!HP)`S#,L>L41M(7+"7(S?7 M"Y1TS,E\HCYER"B+^C2/<C*K4SGUNRF'B92ZN!*OFZ(##,H@^S"Z(@R<[*05 M1+6I_*;B&3<4VKWM&SI,'$%*/(<[>!0BS*V@^S[)"S0C$Y<C\BNXS$EGHSG. M4ZT]>ZLK]$)?N;TKVT3I_J@U'MRZ(:-"\3$VLL,+!4),<DS`G^LY@\3#A#S( MU`(^ZDN'_-C!0AS$FUL]LJR2IH0VEF#+T,PQ@IJX('RRJB2.5XQ,)&O$/5)) M75.\"QRO<Q1,\/(L900<Z-+-J(NKP,M+U'PRCP$ZB(%%!'REFRD]K^PVW=I% MK;-!F2DO0CS,Z2RY[F+,(DPQUAPPX>3.>;,ZJ=F,L#//BZ`O=^NF\<PJ7GP; M_)F@W&3/<UN4ZE)+H5S+:-S*U*P+)RO,]@,X[IPY(4.Z`9/%%S.>L;JD_1G, MG1C'`[VM[C.D[*2XIHI&^C3)G$G(B]JIC;PR@6.T2WD,UA$:C).KYKI-"350 M_A)=I.K\RMWS1EM8KI+,FO?S-_[+S).Z3XH$/G6LL+4#.YY2S_B4C;Y#*D0$ MTM*"KL;,0I%\QJ"<NS*=3`_32L.;18($J2/]S%_Y1D1!MZC<#_%<TS,9T/[L MTD?,-,RD1]AD4*'<RUR<1>TLT$`4OGF#P9`#+_WK19D$4>ULO-;C.U)+CCU- M1B,+O1XL2)^<3'_QU+\$QCYSN$B2(0Y=QBQMCYE432WEJ*X<U1:4U%/=FNQ< M0$RUIL#\MTVS4\]#TE#=SFV+K30-U%^=R3P:R/[I3&A"IGRDL8\T3<S4'D!I M(XRT4B[D4ERU'N\S41&\R>IZS$#U5(?B2E*5S:ML_C=]%,?Y<K4I.E,B[4Z@ M-%1*C46WRU93J\0U%5:*:T(L"DTYG"Y1+<Y)!<K<"L/ZK+V$!4Z[NM-.Y$E? M)%84*B1`W"CH"]8V5;-WXSXX(T:0,]?&_+A;$M6.3$5[@L9PA5#=Z\(5;<8[ MQ$MC?:%;4\+_@3O;.[V#K%@63+_3O,X`RR1(?`5[TTL(U4<ZHU0!G#K0`TPU M/4GG<DLBS:#A[,YM>[N`K32R:RU9?4B))9Z8U<%*RY@K2J:6Q3IJRA]_?4_< MP[^IE1^Q],7VK,<3'=?(K!.3#%<Q1,AXG41)O;NZA=@D2[I0+,UA);B_;54I M[4:[`ME=N]<S$U'?L]"D_KJ4N1Q3DG/5GK18^70;%HTC6.59D@S)@GVL9%NL M_7O8"57.O$(?X"0/4+5)X</*#V4D9'7;=U38VONBI^.Q4R1,[?+!8X/(<X79 M"L366_753PI=-XO8)$U.;BL[]"O2=`0TGM7+X%5=LL1&LSU;-WQ0YV*X.&59 MD+16EOPO5['/GIU/JS5.EGW-S47)>85<EI.^6DJ5L7M66IM2]71<Q:S7[O5. MJ8U6-,'8SIVY6.5#D@C%?OV.JD2]O[K$(SRVAQW.293:)P6WU%'(L<U&/[&] M_/M%)*S:B03A^KE'BH6C]\RKM(79QFW6/137G.I;=B1@7B,F'DW#'TV:Z4W6 M_O-54>;]WQ4&5KLS2-6$7[WM*L*K15,51<Z#W>>T5P4I6Q7%TI<4U*,<(79[ M4:S]UGHAX&%\KE;17!\=T;_SL2'N4R3%NGP5T_@B4^^44F7*UP_-WIVDP+I) MO?W$+UQ;U9LUS;TM5^.%SH2"VC8>P[O\82SDEXJ%U\T[H6$RWPZUVJ5%7]`E MU+$DHD6639ZTW@WN/52MLNV,6YUAH3)K1Y5#34.^3M[;0)]QJPSVON0=RAYM M&-ZD2QA3X^.#P:>,EK$E2N&]V\`MR4KFVQ(QY0R<Y,K[3@=S7J6T0-\"WC$, MM2DN2UD<Y`E..C*\XO!U6">-+R]$3HJY7YI#8L#M_L4I6RI=7ICF#3;%'#@_ M)EMBTU?JW5T4_6-;[3<KEJ_E?+QT1<.--6/,)60#S+I&Q5D]O29M3LL"H]OB MR^:(M#,QB])4C-04GLVR8A=_(M;^!=;%!63.+65(B]WU-;A+EF1:9E+5LYV^ M$^C\#=.5BV9H%J\Y/<$Q-KE;U<;]U:^.+L6:!ESGS=K0'>5;AH(R?=KSE#%[ M?F`9/>1)UL,VK,\&EF)P_4#&:#N6+M;5C6B,U<_A&^!PCL@XMDM@ON5YEM!T M#E]W;1K+W-LQIKJUU6`(WEGBW.<415L]YK!-'M<Z/%BASN)?YF!YY>3!;5+, M'=,*7+^!%=]5%=&9W4]._D;</^VMQ%NQ9C;K4JI68O;?LW7I:J$M=.55MF7= ML5AH%_V1>^[&^[7DSVYIRVS;32U;ZI7K4JWF=G)#UW;!@0Y@;TU4_!VLT0Z_ M-;:^Z!-N>3A)FK92%R7`R_;`]#W43([J++XSCG9.2`IK$*W<=UUM$@S#+@1K M"8KMARYD0Z+/#DN1W*4I@C3'C-KH+6[-0S7L+:P^N*XICRP[5*T'3HW@NGM% M@O;F"*U@(%8Q-I[B.A-P2F9?!![FSU;2B_WNH>#KSOL;##I"9L-/.[2^43Y= M]SU?]^UJSRQ:I8G?)4R2CW3GW_7@J/YK4T;833SPD_6N\>[K%2YP=C3FL);N M_G\>;XX38TYMZ_SL%2:660\V0@+'2Y<5-1PG8;X&;B;THY?69[12[`+\5@K% M;+K^Z^AN$!Y]Y\R>K1MN94!^:NV>X2W_:.P67D"$Z,!C16N4;7(&:8';U9N- MXR7]P?NZZDY3/!P&EZ\FV`#DSYB#5UB62U?VW__N;W(%[$@^TH45TJ:MX+V. M\1:]6,#\9THW$5)`P><A7WYK9ZH>Z3B'/(,EZY6-1=6V<]QQ)EFNZX!A<2B= M$6Q]O.?L8_>+]!;?RAHOU&81<V-.V5->\=JU=<^MY^+]U"B^[32>YZ-464TO MO98<S>3T5NYE]#Y'2`!D[SD%Y35&\V.?5I&(6(,V_MJ.&^KO-'(G1FX5;BK6 M7N^5,'0V9G`&_>AVE_="?^%V$W9E9%ID_O+NB#Z-!:W-I+=4WEHW5?`0EG6G MG6\CC,#[N1=57L]/5C_0Y%PM+&('M69AOOA@G_#LAG&AGO<<IV<RG?,ZPF*, M1KO\'+_F007GZR'C%,@;9UYKSV,3_\DWNCCJD%,5DY3DXU5>EW"4-W;"\[@* MIV*!QW=J+G92+^WN_GCK@G0?QW(4_WBGUFF-=_$'+UH^EL$4/QP,LMWZK4*C M.\V(3]C?>GF2!-/@7=[-B%!U#CX$O_KO:N2;?^,.K_6I_]5VAWMZ!_#_5?=Z MMWJ-7VKD1=CK9>)L-^VN_O>E+FIJU/WN</ZZ_G9Q3;;XJ2[BJ/5TR)9Y-@'Z MI]=J\M9PN=7C%IUV;Y8[JC=TOYYF[=MKME_WP)=W'M_Q._?HD53V!_T17.Q< MPV%WL%U--`7^F;;IOVQ'Z);1XZ6GONGANHSZ+@;3/>'?N9;,L79=6"4]E53^ M&<_IO1]MU?=^0VUZC/])DQ==JL?]=;;8Z&7S'!JILUO&!DU0.1ZJ#:=_ZT;H MTE=*C)=7@V>*$)S0N24`)):XVLX0I28GI`]8??OV76@L(%:*THE]9JN@V=&J ML!C/;)1[;L5L'!;.$;R1#C)DDO1B+D<C6["2J0I]N>)ERMUZNT,M%_@5;\6X M_J<S3`:C0+Q5NXH-_^YCO#N__]+2.H&!:48427T:$U`IB'^.A(]PD),\?X6, M?G,K6)AH64<OBTBA2D=+AXN),EEF'YF-H3V3;9B/5WN)J9%KF["?AJ)0)EZO M>B6*>)UZ6LO)E+K/-7`UP(=KRKW64\Z1T8#0VFHTW8S>.C<6<2G.J594IJ:Z MUTX1@YGE9YUTO^C/5K>]6+'#IHZ2I4I$[LD+%K!,'7RTS*'1)I'0I1DG)!W; M*%&?L5L(.68<9I#AN%\<+Q)$I)((,DV-1I4J)0\>O"@A03:4PXW/QVPD^?7, M*5!5R7!#R@$5)$H-*7,(C;;KR%/6RF/56IXB.?)D_C>AL>9AS!I2!55OX")J MG*6P;;JPM`3)5(*1ILPH9'?F*P+0JA"??CWZM>A6V`\PP:S9$KS/WM-5`Y<" M)I=VI+^K1Q_C0GHM;U14@D6R#<R2,N1J-@ZBY(HN--A*G%K%70CJYIM3=+=B M[@%QW<3&BF0!/[W;;$Y]D.@E%EUK\NW*'7O#\AJYT'#2IC5V%JM9M>FQQK\Q MS9X6.A/KF+\S;_55^ER<<^_F=DJ1?FODL1D?=\6Y'42CX;4''5[D+,:7=.#4 M9F!^LBDEV7C@=0>>6UYQI5Q_2+UEF7IH58AA5:*5!!55OKFGDS+K'8:/@K4U M08I<\[U'X5E#3?9;C2;R_F+@:H09XIAJ0+G2W79JC2;@/.=]9V0T'(HC7H<2 MIAAA9\G]J-*")+)WT8-%<8A2/#,M1^!AAEF8U!PU`K&3EE;:TR)H768)(7TI MS?BFDP%*AMYT@+WD$!_"%6C>A#2.>$<Q(KZ958^"=C4EEY0!^I$Q!?F9"Q67 MXC0F:/54)E^3-C;3#QV.$KD6J#@R^1B6EDXSYJ#[!2D)I)[)VJ.AC+Y8*V?> MG2GG-R0ZXF%%.$9UYG^DE;E/<(1>:,1Y`/9AY:TZ+:H0:Q]2$Z*?XV2T74\` M"7M61#SNV:"6():IY*F>4?<DJK_NY^:C\+8)K(Y9,ML5<2ZHR6RFF&K7+YZ9 MP?&+H&NN[9E>E,D%E:J4SBJ8;'6*(4ED40JC2Q0V<1[+HS3OTHO=DK,J:J^9 M\,;4+L/R:H58GG9N9NF_SPZX3+2M5EOI2W\UH]3#16()],O2)@AKL$-^^)L< MK1']3DM+!TJK6*6BUG"J'I\4"\LAB^1UKAP#'3;),D^Z:U(WDTM>?Q@#>?#, M8%\6-#"V_MFQMJ9FO)I<V.KE=*9QCNURB57=ZBC2(:"88(AU$AMEO9YJFS-< 0]L;ZY[6@LL*75&U^40``.^KE ` end
Trumpets, please. "Forced to go to Palestine." How dreadful. Unlike other undesirables/Jews, she wasn't forced to go into a gas chamber, forced under a bulldozer, thrown into a river, forced into a "Medical experiment" like a rat, forced to march until she dropped dead, burned to nothingness in a crematorium. Your mother was "forced to go to Palestine." You have our deepest sympathies. We are pleased to hear of your escape. At least you won't have to suffer the same fate that your mother did. Your homeland, Palestine? Should we assume that you are refering here to Jews who were kicked out of their homes in Jerusalem during the Jordanian Occupation of East Jerusalem? These are the same people who are now being called thieves for re-claiming houses that they once owned and lived in and never sold to anyone? I have never heard of NOT being a Jew as a crime. Certainly in Israel, there is no such crime. In some times and places BEING a Jew is a crime, but NOT being a Jew??!! Our brains do not accept your logic, yet, either. The way you've written this, you seem to accept criticism in the Arab world UNLESS it deflects criticism from Israel, in which case, we have to presume, you no longer support criticism of the Arab world. Look who's taling about discrimination now! Be careful. You are starting to sound like Barfling. Good. Don't call yourself "ARF" or "the Center for Policy Research", either.
After having OpenWindows (Version 3 for SunOS 4.1) or Xwindows running continuously on my machine for 3-4 days, the following message appears when trying to open a new window, or to run any program that needs to open windows. XView error: Cannot open connection to window server: :0.0 (Server package) I would greatly appreciate any suggestions to solve this problem.
Yeah, I'm sure that our lab would love a ride (he's the type that sticks his head out car windows) but I didn't think that he would enjoy being bungee- corded to the gas tank, and 65 lbs or squirming beast is a bit much for a backpack (ok who's done it....).
Has anyone heard of or Played Buzz Aldrin's Race into Space? Does anyone know when it is expected to be released...?
Well, I would go as far as saying that Naturei Karta are definitely Jewish fundamentalists. Other ultra-orthodox Jewish groups might very well be, though I am hesitant of making such a broad generalization.
LBL now offers ethernet support also, although presently it is limited to NE1000/NE2000 style boards. LBL owners can get an update for $8.50.
presented Since her symptoms are only pain she would do weel to seek the advice of a good, multi-disciplinary pain clinic. It is distressing to think that people are stll being told they have to "live with the pain" when many options for pain management (rather than treating MRI findings) are available. A good pain clinic will accept that this lady's problem is her pain and set about finding ways of relieveing that.
No, just a little anger. Normally I don't rip people's lips off, except when my candida has overcolonized and I become: "Fungus Man"! :^) Jon -- Charter Member --->>> INFJ Club.
Can anyone provide information on CS chemical agent--the tear gas used recently in WACO. Just what is it chemically, and what are its effects on the body? dsc@gemini.gsfc.nasa.gov | Regards, | Hughes STX | Code 926.9 GSFC | | Doug Caprette | Lanham, Maryland | Greenbelt, MD 20771 |
Other people have commented on most of this swill, I figured I'd add a few comments of my own. Hong Kong, and Cairo both have higher population densities. There is no fundamental right to work in another country. And the closing of the strip is not a punishment, it is a security measure to stop people from stabbing Israelis. Dozens minus one, since one of them was stabbed to death a few days ago. Adam Adam Shostack adam@das.harvard.edu
My friend brought a subaru SVX recently. I had drove it for couples times and I think its a great car, esp on snow. However when she took it to a local Subaru dealer for a oil change, the bill came out to be about 80 dollars. The dealer told us it is because to change the oil filter on a SVX it is necessary to disassemble a metal cover under the engine and that took an hour of labour. At first, we think we are being ripped off so she phone to a dealer in Toronto but found out the they are charging roughly the same price. So is there any SVX owner out there that has the same problem ? And if the oil change story is true, then the engineer of Subaru looks pretty stubid to me. By the way, the car looks great.
This is a periodic posting intended to answer the Frequently Asked Question: What is the DoD? It is posted the first of each month, with an expiration time of over a month. Thus, unless your site's news software is ill-mannered, this posting should always be available. This WitDoDFAQ is crossposted to all four rec.motorcycles groups in an attempt to catch most new users, and followups are directed to rec.motorcycles. Last changed 9-Feb-93 to add a message from the KotL, and a bit of Halon. VERSION 1.1 This collection was originally assembled by Lissa Shoun, from the original postings. With Lissa's permission, I have usurped the title of KotWitDoDFAQ. Any corrections, additions, bribes, etc. should be aimed at blgardne@javelin.sim.es.com. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Contents: How do I get a DoD number? by Blaine Gardner DoD #46 DoD "Road Rider" article by Bruce Tanner DoD #161 What is the DoD? by John Sloan DoD #11 The DoD Logo by Chuck Rogers DoD #3 The DoD (this started it all) by The Denizen of Doom DoD #1 The DoD Anthem by Jonathan Quist DoD #94 Why you have to be killed by Blaine Gardner DoD #46 The rec.moto.photo.archive courtesy of Bruce Tanner DoD #161 Patches? What patches? by Blaine Gardner DoD #46 Letter from the AMA museum by Jim Rogers, Director DoD #395 The DoD Rules by consensus Other rec.moto resources by various Keepers DoD #misc The rec.moto.reviews.archive courtesy of Loki Jorgenson DoD #1210 Updated stats & rides info by Ed Green (DoD #111) and others ------------------------------------------------------------------------ How do I get a DoD number? If the most Frequently Asked Question in rec.motorcycles is "What is the DoD?", then the second most Frequently Asked Question must be "How do I get a DoD number?" That is as simple as asking the Keeper of the List (KotL, accept no substitue Keepers) for a number. If you're feeling creative, and your favorite number hasn't been taken already, you can make a request, subject to KotL approval. (Warning, non-numeric, non- base-10 number requests are likely to earn a flame from the KotL. Not that you won't get it, but you _will_ pay for it.) Oh, and just one little, tiny suggestion. Ask the KotL in e-mail. You'll just be playing the lightning rod for flames if you post to the whole net, and you'll look like a clueless newbie too. By now you're probably asking "So who's the KotL already?". Well, as John Sloan notes below, that's about the only real "secret" left around here, but a few (un)subtle hints can be divulged. First, it is not myself, nor anyone mentioned by name in this posting (maybe :-), though John was the original KotL. Second, in keeping with the true spirit of Unix, the KotL's first name is only two letters long, and can be spelled entirely with hexadecimal characters. (2.5, the KotL shares his name with a line- oriented text utility.) Third, he has occasionally been seen posting messages bestowing new DoD numbers (mostly to boneheads with "weenie mailers"). Fourth, there is reason to suspect the KotL of being a Dead-Head. ***************** Newsflash: A message from the KotL ****************** Once you have surmounted this intellectual pinnacle and electronically groveled to the KotL, please keep in mind that the KotL does indeed work for a living, and occasionally must pacify its boss by getting something done. Your request may languish in mailer queue for (gasp!) days, perhaps even (horrors!) a week or two. During such times of economic activity on the part of the KotL's employers, sending yet another copy of your request will not speed processing of the queue (it just makes it longer, verification of this phenominon is left as an excersize for the reader). If you suspect mailer problems, at least annotate subsequent requests with an indication that a former request was submitted, lest you be assigned multiple numbers (what, you think the KotL *memorizes* the list?!?). *********************************************************************** One more thing, the KotL says that its telepathic powers aren't what they used to be. So provide some information for the list, will ya? The typical DoD List entry contains number, name, state/country, & e-mail address. For example: 0111:Ed Green:CA:ed.green@East.Sun.COM (PS: While John mentions below that net access and a bike are the only requirements for DoD membership, that's not strictly true these days, as there are a number of Denizens who lack one or both.) Blaine (Dances With Bikers) Gardner blgardne@javelin.sim.es.com ------------------------------------------------------------------------ "Denizens of Doom", by Bruce Tanner (DoD 0161) [Road Rider, August 1991, reprinted with Bruce's permission] There is a group of motorcyclists that gets together and does all the normal things that a bunch of bikers do. They discuss motorcycles and motorcycling, beverages, cleaning fluids, baklavah, balaclava, caltrops, helmets, anti-fog shields, spine protectors, aerodynamics, three-angle valve seats, bird hits, deer whistles, good restaurants, racing philosophy, traffic laws, tickets, corrosion control, personalities, puns, double entendres, culture, absence of culture, first rides and friendship. They argue with each other and plan rides together. The difference between this group and your local motorcycle club is that, although they get together just about everyday, most have never seen each other face to face. The members of this group live all over the known world and communicate with each other electronically via computer. The computers range from laptops to multi-million dollar computer centers; the people range from college and university students to high-tech industry professionals to public-access electronic bulletin-board users. Currently, rec.motorcycles (pronounced "wreck-dot-motorcycles," it's the file name for the group's primary on-line "meeting place") carries about 2250 articles per month; it is read by an estimated 29,000 people. Most of the frequent posters belong to a motorcycle club, the Denizens of Doom, usually referred to as the DoD. The DoD started when motorcyclist John R. Nickerson wrote a couple of parodies designed to poke fun at motorcycle stereotypes. Fellow computer enthusiast Bruce Robinson posted these articles under the pen name, "Denizen of Doom." A while later Chuck Rogers signed off as DoD nr. 0003 Keeper of the Flame. Bruce was then designated DoD nr. 0002, retroactively and, of course, Nickerson, the originator of the parodies, was given DoD nr. 0001. The idea of a motorcycle club with no organization, no meetings and no rules appealed to many, so John Sloan -- DoD nr. 0011 -- became Keeper of the List, issuing DoD numbers to anyone who wanted one. To date there have been almost 400 memberships issued to people all over the United States and Canada, as well as Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway and Finland. Keeper of the List Sloan eventually designed a club patch. The initial run of 300 patches sold out immediately. The profits from this went to the American Motorcycle Heritage Foundation. Another AMHF fund raiser -- selling Denizens of Doom pins to members -- was started by Arnie Skurow a few months later. Again, the project was successful and the profits were donated to the foundation. So far, the Denizens have contributed over $1500 to the AMA museum. A plaque in the name of the Denizens of Doom now hangs in the Motorcycle Heritage Museum. As often as possible, the DoD'ers crawl out from behind their CRTs and go riding together. It turns out that the two largest concentrations of DoD'ers are centered near Denver/Boulder, Colorado, and in California's "Silicon Valley." Consequently, two major events are the annual Assault on Rollins Pass in Colorado, and the Northern versus Southern California "Joust." The Ride-and-Feed is a bike trip over Rollins Pass, followed by a big barbecue dinner. The concept for the Joust is to have riders from Northern California ride south; riders from Southern California to ride north, meeting at a predesignated site somewhere in the middle. An additional plan for 1991 is to hold an official Denizens of Doom homecoming in conjunction with the AMA heritage homecoming in Columbus, Ohio, in July. Though it's a safe bet the the Denizens of Doom and their collective communications hub, rec.motorcycles, will not replace the more traditional motorcycle organizations, for those who prowl the electronic pathways in search of two-wheeled camaraderie, it's a great way for kindred spirits to get together. Long may they flame. "Live to Flame -- Flame to Live" [centerbar] This official motto of the Denizens of Doom refers to the ease with which you can gratuitously insult someone electronically, when you would not do anything like that face to face. These insults are known as "flames"; issuing them is called "flaming." Flames often start when a member disagrees with something another member has posted over the network. A typical, sophisticated, intelligent form of calm, reasoned rebuttal would be something like: "What an incredibly stupid statement, you Spandex-clad poseur!" This will guarantee that five other people will reply in defense of the original poster, describing just what they think of you, your riding ability and your cat. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ _The Denizens of Doom: The Saga Unfolds_ by John Sloan DoD #0011 Periodically the question "What is DoD?" is raised. This is one of those questions in the same class as "Why is the sky blue?", "If there is a God, why is there so much suffering in the world?" and "Why do women inevitably tell you that you're such a nice guy just before they dump you?", the kinds of questions steeped in mysticism, tradition, and philosophy, questions that have inspired research and discussion by philosophers in locker rooms, motorcycle service bays, and in the halls of academe for generations. A long, long time ago (in computer time, where anything over a few minutes is an eternity and the halting problem really is a problem) on a computer far, far away on the net (topologically speaking; two machines in the same room in Atlanta might route mail to one another via a system in Chicago), a chap who wished to remain anonymous (but who was eventually assigned the DoD membership #1) wrote a satire of the various personalities and flame wars of rec.motorcycles, and signed it "The Denizen of Doom". Not wishing to identify himself, he asked that stalwart individual who would in the fullness of time become DoD #2 to post it for him. DoD #2, not really giving a whit about what other people thought and generally being a right thinking individual, did so. Flaming and other amusements followed. He who would become the holder of DoD membership #3 thought this was the funniest thing he'd seen in a while (being the sort that is pretty easily amused), so he claimed membership in the Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club, and started signing his postings with his membership number. Perhaps readers of rec.motorcycles were struck with the vision of a motorcycle club with no dues, no rules, no restrictions as to brand or make or model or national origin of motorcycle, a club organized electronically. It may well be that readers were yearning to become a part of something that would provide them with a greater identity, a gestalt personality, something in which the whole was greater than the sum of its parts. It could also be that we're all computer nerds who wear black socks and sneakers and pocket protectors, who just happen to also love taking risks on machines with awesome power to weight ratios, social outcasts who saw a clique that would finally be open minded enough to accept us as members. In a clear case of self fulfilling prophesy, The Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club was born. A club in which the majority of members have never met one another face to face (and perhaps like it that way), yet feel that they know one another pretty well (or well enough given some of the electronic personalities in the newsgroup). A club organized and run (in the loosest sense of the word) by volunteers through the network via electronic news and mail, with a membership/mailing list (often used to organize group rides amongst members who live in the same region), a motto, a logo, a series of photo albums circulating around the country (organized by DoD #9), club patches (organized by #11), and even an MTV-style music video (produced by #47 and distributed on VHS by #18)! Where will it end? Who knows? Will the DoD start sanctioning races, placing limits on the memory and clock rate of the on-board engine management computers? Will the DoD organize poker runs where each participant collects a hand of hardware and software reference cards? Will the DoD have a rally in which the attendees demand a terminal room and at least a 386-sized UNIX system? Only time will tell. The DoD has no dues, no rules, and no requirements other than net access and a love for motorcycles. To become a member, one need only ask (although we will admit that who you must ask is one of the few really good club secrets). New members will receive via email a membership number and the latest copy of the membership list, which includes name, state, and email address. The Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club will live forever (or at least until next year when we may decided to change the name). Live to Flame - Flame to Live ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The DoD daemon as seen on the patches, pins, etc. by Chuck Rogers, car377@druhi.att.com, DoD #0003 :-( DoD )-: :-( x __ __ x )-: :-( x / / \ \ x )-: :-( x / / -\-----/- \ \ x )-: :-( L | \/ \ / \/ | F )-: :-( I | / \ / \ | L )-: :-( V \/ __ / __ \/ A )-: :-( E / / \ / \ \ M )-: :-( | | \ / | | E )-: :-( T | | . | _ | . | | )-: :-( O | \___// \\___/ | T )-: :-( \ \_/ / O )-: :-( F \___ ___/ )-: :-( L \ \ / / L )-: :-( A \ vvvvv / I )-: :-( M | ( ) | V )-: :-( E | ^^^^^ | E )-: :-( x \_______/ x )-: :-( x x )-: :-( x rec.motorcycles x )-: :-( USENET )-: ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The DoD by the Denizen of Doom DoD #1 Welcome one and all to the flamingest, most wonderfullest newsgroup of all time: wreck.mudder-disciples or is it reak.mudder-disciples? The Names have been changes to protect the Guilty (riders) and Innocent (the bikes) alike. If you think you recognize a contorted version of your name, you don't. It's just your guilt complex working against you. Read 'em and weep. We tune in on a conversation between some of our heros. Terrible Barbarian is extolling the virtues of his Hopalonga Puff-a-cane to Reverend Muck Mudgers and Stompin Fueling-Injection: Terrible: This Hopalonga is the greatest... Beats BMWs dead!! Muck: I don't mean to preach, Terrible, but lighten up on the BMW crowd eh? I mean like I like riding my Yuka-yuka Fudgeo-Jammer 11 but what the heck. Stompin: No way, the BMW is it, complete, that's all man. Terrible: Nahhhh, you're sounding like Heritick Ratatnack! Hey, at least he is selling his BMW and uses a Hopalonga Intercorruptor! Not as good as a Puff-a-cane, should have been called a Woosh-a-stream. Stompin: You mean Wee-Stream. Terrible: Waddya going to do? Call in reinforcements??? Stompin: Yehh man. Here comes Arlow Scarecrow and High Tech. Let's see what they say, eh? Muck: Now men, let's try to be civil about this. High Tech: Hi, I'm a 9 and the BMW is the greatest. Arlow: Other than my B.T. I love my BMW! Terrible: B.T.??? Arlow: Burley Thumpison, the greatest all American ride you can own. Muck: Ahhh, look, you're making Terrible gag. Terrible: What does BMW stand for anyway??? Muck, Arlow, High: Beats Me, Wilhelm. Terrible: Actually, my name is Terrible. Hmmm, I don't know either. Muck: Say, here comes Chunky Bear. Chunky: Hey, Hey, Hey! Smarter than your average bear! Terrible: Hey, didn't you drop your BMW??? Chunky: All right eh, a little BooBoo, but I left him behind. I mean even Villy Ogle flamed me for that! Muck: It's okay, we all makes mistakes. Out of the blue the West coasters arrive, led by Tread Orange with Dill Snorkssy, Heritick Ratatnack, Buck Garnish, Snob Rasseller and the perenial favorite: Hooter Boobin Brush! Heritick: Heya Terrible, how's yer front to back bias? Terrible: Not bad, sold yer BMW? Heritick: Nahhh. Hooter: Hoot, Hoot. Buck: Nice tree Hooter, how'd ya get up there? Hooter: Carbujectors from Hell!!! Muck: What's a carbujector? Hooter: Well, it ain't made of alumican!!! Made by Tilloslert!! Muck: Ahh, come on down, we aren't going to flame ya, honest!! Dill: Well, where do we race? Snob: You know, Chunky, we know about about your drop and well, don't ride! Muck: No! No! Quiet! Tread: BMW's are the greatest in my supreme level headed opinion. They even have luggage made by Sourkraut! High: My 9 too! Terrible, Heritick, Dill, Buck: Nahhhhh!!! Stompin, Tread, High, Chunky, Snob: Yesss Yessssss!!! Before this issue could be resolved the Hopalonga crew called up more cohorts from the local area including Polyanna Stirrup and the infamous Booster Robiksen on his Cavortin! Polyanna: Well, men, the real bikers use stirrups on their bikes like I use on my Hopalonga Evening-Bird Special. Helpful for getting it up on the ole ventral stand! Terrible: Hopalonga's are great like Polyanna says and Yuka-Yuka's and Sumarikis and Kersnapis are good too! Booster: I hate Cavortin. All: WE KNOW, WE KNOW. Booster: I love Cavortin. All: WE KNOW WE KNOW. Muck: Well, what about Mucho Guzlers and Lepurras? Snob, Tread: Nawwwwww. Muck: What about a Tridump? Terrible: Isn't that a chewing gum? Muck: Auggggg, Waddda about a Pluck-a-kity? Heritick: Heyya Muck, you tryin' to call up the demon rider himself? Muck: No, no. There is more to Mudder-Disciples than arguing about make. Two more riders zoom in, in the form of Pill Turret and Phalanx Lifter. Pill: Out with dorsal stands and ventral stands forever. Phalanx: Hey, I don't know about that. And Now even more west coasters pour in. Road O'Noblin: Hopalonga's are the greatest! Maulled Beerstein: May you sit on a bikejector! Suddenly more people arrived from the great dark nurth: Kite Lanolin: Hey, BMW's are great, men. Robo-Nickie: I prefer motorcycle to robot transformers, personally. More riders from the west coast come into the discussion: Aviator Sourgas: Get a Burley-Thumpison with a belted-rigged frame. Guess Gasket: Go with a BMW or Burley-Thumpison. With a roar and a screech the latest mudder-disciple thundered in. It was none other that Clean Bikata on her Hopalonga CaBammerXorn. Clean: Like look, Hopalonga are it but only CaBammerXorns. Muck: Why?? Clean: Well, like it's gotta be a 6-banger or nothin. Muck: But I only have a 4-banger. Clean: No GOOD! Chunky: Sob, some of us only have 2-bangers! Clean: Inferior! Stompin: Hey, look, here's proof BMW's are better. The Bimmer-Boys burst into song: (singing) Beemer Babe, Beemer Babe give me a thrill... Road, Terrible, Polyanna, Maulled, Dill etc.: Wadddoes BMW stand for? Heritick, Stompin, Snob, Chunky, Tread, Kite, High, Arlow: BEAT'S ME, WILHEM! Road, Terrible, Polyanna, Maulled, Dill etc.: Oh, don't you mean BMW? And so the ensuing argument goes until the skies clouded over and the thunder roared and the Greatest Mudder-Disciple (G.M.D.) of them all boomed out. G.M.D.: Enough of your bickering! You are doomed to riding Bigot & Suction powered mini-trikes for your childish actions. All: no, No, NO!!! Puhlease. Does this mean that all of the wreck.mudder-disciples will be riding mini-trikes? Are our arguing heros doomed? Tune in next week for the next gut wretching episode of "The Yearning and Riderless" with its ever increasing cast of characters. Where all technical problems will be flamed over until well done. Next week's episode will answer the question of: "To Helmet or Not to Helmet" will be aired, this is heady material and viewer discretion is advised. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Script for the Denizens of Doom Anthem Video by Jonathan E. Quist DoD #94 [Scene: A sterile engineering office. A lone figure, whom we'll call Chuck, stands by a printer output bin, wearing a white CDC lab coat, with 5 mechanical pencils in a pocket protector.] (editor's note: For some reason a great deal of amusement was had at the First Annual DoD Uni-Coastal Ironhorse Ride & Joust by denizens referring to each other as "Chuck". I guess you had to be there. I wasn't.) Chuck: I didn't want to be a Software Systems Analyst, cow-towing to the whims of a machine, and saying yessir, nosir, may-I-have-another-sir. My mother made me do it. I wanted to live a man's life, [Music slowly builds in background] riding Nortons and Triumphs through the highest mountain passes and the deepest valleys, living the life of a Motorcyclist; doing donuts and evading the police; terrorizing old ladies and raping small children; eating small dogs for tea (and large dogs for dinner). In short, I Want to be A Denizen! [Chuck rips off his lab coat, revealing black leather jacket (with fringe), boots, and cap. Scene simultaneously changes to the top of an obviously assaulted Rollins Pass. A small throng of Hell's Angels sit on their Harleys in the near background, gunning their engines, showering lookers-on with nails as they turn donuts, and leaking oil on the tarmac. Chuck is standing in front of a heavily chromed Fat Boy.] Chuck [Sings to the tune of "The Lumberjack Song"]: I'm a Denizen and I'm okay, I flame all night and I ride all day. [Hell's Angels Echo Chorus, surprisingly heavy on tenors]: He's a Denizen and he's okay, He flames all night and he rides all day. I ride my bike; I eat my lunch; I go to the lavat'ry. On Wednesdays I ride Skyline, Running children down with glee. [Chorus]: He rides his bike; He eats his lunch; He goes to the lavat'ry. On Wednesdays he rides Skyline, Running children down with glee. [Chorus refrain]: 'Cause He's a Denizen... I ride real fast, My name is Chuck, It somehow seems to fit. I over-rate the worst bad f*ck, But like a real good sh*t. Oh, I'm a Denizen and I'm okay! I flame all night and I ride all day. [Chorus refrain]: Oh, He's a Denizen... I wear high heels And bright pink shorts, full leathers and a bra. I wish I rode a Harley, just like my dear mama. [Chorus refrain] ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Why you have to be killed. Well, the first thing you have to understand (just in case you managed to read this far, and still not figure it out) is that the DoD started as a joke. And in the words of one Denizen, it intends to remain one. Sometime in the far distant past, a hapless newbie asked: "What does DoD stand for? It's not the Department of Defense is it?" Naturally, a Denizen who had watched the movie "Top Gun" a few times too many rose to the occasion and replied: "That's classified, we could tell you, but then we'd have to kill you." And the rest is history. A variation on the "security" theme is to supply disinformation about what DoD stands for. Notable contributions (and contributers, where known) include: Daughters of Democracy (DoD 23) Doers of Donuts Dancers of Despair (DoD 9) Debasers of Daughters Dickweeds of Denver Driveway of Death Debauchers of Donuts Dumpers of Dirtbikes Note that this is not a comprehensive list, as variations appear to be limited only by the contents of one's imagination or dictionary file. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The rec.moto.photo archive First a bit of history, this all started with Ilana Stern and Chuck Rogers organizing a rec.motorcycles photo album. Many copies were made, and several sets were sent on tours around the world, only to vanish in unknown locations. Then Bruce Tanner decided that it would be appropriate for an electronic medium to have an electronic photo album. Bruce has not only provided the disk space and ftp & e-mail access, but he has taken the time to scan most of the photos that are available from the archive. Not only can you see what all these folks look like, you can also gawk at their motorcycles. A few non-photo files are available from the server too, they include the DoD membership list, the DoD Yellow Pages, the general rec.motorcycles FAQ, and this FAQ posting. Here are a couple of excerpts from from messages Bruce posted about how to use the archive. ********************************************************** Via ftp: cerritos.edu [130.150.200.21] Via e-mail: The address is server@cerritos.edu. The commands are given in the body of the message. The current commands are DIR and SEND, given one per line. The arguments to the commands are VMS style file specifications. For rec.moto.photo the file spec is [DOD]file. For example, you can send: dir [dod] send [dod]bruce_tanner.gif send [dod]dodframe.ps and you'll get back 5 mail messages; a directory listing, 3 uuencoded parts of bruce_tanner.gif, and the dodframe.ps file in ASCII. Oh, wildcards (*) are allowed, but a maximum of 20 mail messages (rounded up to the next whole file) are send. A 'send [dod]*.gif' would send 150 files of 50K each; not a good idea. -- Bruce Tanner (213) 860-2451 x 596 Tanner@Cerritos.EDU Cerritos College Norwalk, CA cerritos!tanner ********************************************************** A couple of comments: Bruce has put quite a bit of effort into this, so why not drop him a note if you find the rec.moto.photo archive useful? Second, since Bruce has provided the server as a favor, it would be kind of you to access it after normal working hours (California time). ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Patches? What patches? You may have heard mention of various DoD trinkets such as patches & pins. And your reaction was probably: "I want!", or "That's sick!", or perhaps "That's sick! I want!" Well, there's some good news and some bad news. The good news is that there's been an amazing variety of DoD-labeled widgets created. The bad news is that there isn't anywhere you can buy any of them. This isn't because of any "exclusivity" attempt, but simply because there is no "DoD store" that keeps a stock. All of the creations have been done by individual Denizens out of their own pockets. The typical procedure is someone says "I'm thinking of having a DoD frammitz made, they'll cost $xx.xx, with $xx.xx going to the AMA museum. Anyone want one?" Then orders are taken, and a batch of frammitzes large enough to cover the pre-paid orders is produced (and quickly consumed). So if you want a DoD doodad, act quickly the next time somebody decides to do one. Or produce one yourself if you see a void that needs filling, after all this is anarchy in action. Here's a possibly incomplete list of known DoD merchandise (and perpetrators). Patches (DoD#11), pins (DoD#99), stickers (DoD#99), motorcycle license plate frames (DoD#216), t-shirts (DoD#99), polo shirts (DoD#122), Zippo lighters (DoD#99) [LtF FtL], belt buckles (DoD#99), and patches (DoD#99) [a second batch was done (and rapidly consumed) by popular demand]. All "profits" have been donated to the American Motorcyclist Association Motorcycle Heritage Museum. As of June 1992, over $5500 dollars has been contributed to the museum fund by the DoD. If you visit the museum, you'll see a large plaque on the Founders' Wall in the name of "Denizens of Doom, USENET, The World", complete with a DoD pin. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Here's a letter from the AMA to the DoD regarding our contributions. ~Newsgroups: rec.motorcycles ~From: Arnie Skurow <arnie@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu> ~Subject: A letter from the Motorcycle Heritage Museum ~Date: Mon, 13 Apr 1992 11:04:58 GMT I received the following letter from Jim Rogers, director of the Museum, the other day. "Dear Arnie and all members of the Denizens of Doom: Congratulations and expressions of gratitude are in order for you and the Denizens of Doom! With your recent donation, the total amount donated is now $5,500. On behalf of the AMHF, please extend my heartfeld gratitude to all the membership of the Denizens. The club's new plaque is presently being prepared. Of course, everyone is invited to come to the museum to see the plaque that will be installed in our Founders Foyer. By the way, I will personally mount a Denizens club pin on the plaque. Again, thank you for all your support, which means so much to the foundation, the museum, and the fulfillment of its goals. Sincerely, Jim Rogers, D.O.D. #0395 Director P.S. Please post on your computer bulletin board." As you all know, even though the letter was addressed to me personally, it was meant for all of you who purchased DoD goodies that made this amount possible. Arnie ------------------------------------------------------------------------ The Rules, Regulations, & Bylaws of the Denizens of Doom Motorcycle Club From time to time there is some mention, discussion, or flame about the rules of the DoD. In order to fan the flames, here is the complete text of the rules governing the DoD. Rule #1. There are no rules. Rule #0. Go ride. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Other rec.motorcycles information resources. There are several general rec.motorcycles resources that may or may not have anything to do with the DoD. Most are posted on a regular basis, but they can also be obtained from the cerritos ftp/e-mail server (see the info on the photo archive above). A general rec.motorcycles FAQ is maintained by Dave Williams. Cerritos filenames are FAQn.TXT, where n is currently 1-5. The DoD Yellow Pages, a listing of motorcycle industry vendor phone numbers & addresses, is maintained by bob pakser. Cerritos filename is YELLOW_PAGES_Vnn, where n is the rev. number. The List of the DoD membership is maintained by The Keeper of the List. Cerritos filename is DOD.LIST. This WitDoD FAQ (surprise, surprise!) is maintained by yours truly. Cerritos filename is DOD_FAQ.TXT. Additions, corrections, etc. for any of the above should be aimed at the keepers of the respective texts. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Loki Jorgenson loki@Physics.McGill.CA) has provided an archive site for motorcycle and accessory reviews, here's an excerpt from his periodic announcement. ********************************************************** The Rec.Motorcycles.Reviews Archives (and World Famous Llama Emporium) contains a Veritable Plethora (tm) of bike (and accessories) reviews, written by rec.moto readers based on their own experiences. These invaluable gems of opinion (highly valued for their potential to reduce noise on the list) can be accessed via anonymous FTP, Email server or by personal request: Anonymous FTP: ftp.physics.mcgill.ca (132.206.9.13) under ~ftp/pub/DoD Email archive server: rm-reviews@ftp.physics.mcgill.ca Review submissions/questions: rm-reviews@physics.mcgill.ca NOTE: There is a difference in the addresses for review submission and using the Email archive server (ie. an "ftp."). To get started with the Email server, send an Email message with a line containing only "send help". NOTE: If your return address appears like domain!subdomain!host!username in your mail header, include a line like (or something similar) path username@host.subdomain.domain If you are interested in submitting a review of a bike that you already own(ed), PLEASE DO! There is a template of the format that the reviews are kept in (more or less) available at the archive site . For those who have Internet access but are unsure of how anonymous FTP works, an example script is available on request. ********************************************************** Reviews of any motorcycle related accessory or widget are welcome too. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Updated stats & rec.motorcycles rides info Some of the info cited above in various places tends to be a moving target. Rather than trying to catch every occurence, I'm just sticking the latest info down here. Estimated rec.motorcycles readership: 35K [news.groups] Approximate DoD Membership: 975 [KotL] DoD contributions to the American Motorcyclist Association Motorcycle Heritage Museum. Over $5500 [Arnie] Organized (?) Rides: Summer 1992 saw more organized rides, with the Joust in its third year, and the Ride & Feed going strong, but without the Rollins Pass trip due to the collapse of a tunnel. The East Coast Denizens got together for the Right Coast Ride (RCR), with bikers from as far north as NH, and as far south as FL meeting in the Blueridge Mountains of North Carolina. The Pacific Northwest crew organized the first Great Pacific Northwest Dryside Gather (GPNDG), another successful excuse for riding motorcycles, and seeing the faces behind the names we all have come to know so well. [Thanks to Ed Green for the above addition.] Also worth mentioning are: The first rec.moto.dirt ride, held in the Moab/Canyonlands area of southern Utah. Riders from 5 states showed up, riding everything from monster BMWs to itty-bitty XRs to almost-legal 2-strokes. And though it's not an "official" (as if anything could be official with this crowd) rec.moto event, the vintage motorcycle races in Steamboat Springs, Colorado always provides a good excuse for netters to gather. There's also been the occasional Labor Day gather in Utah. European Denizens have staged some gathers too. (Your ad here, reasonable rates!) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- Blaine Gardner @ Evans & Sutherland 580 Arapeen Drive, SLC, Utah 84108 blgardne@javelin.sim.es.com BIX: blaine_g@bix.com FJ1200 Half of my vehicles and all of my computers are Kickstarted. DoD#46
So what are you? I don't think that, you are just making noise. That's true. I try to learn from people who know more than me, not from useless farts. Of course, I have said that more times in this group than anyone else, I'd think. Quite true, that's why I am so careful in selecting quotes. Oh bullshit. Fanatic my bum. Prove your blah or cork it. How would you know what I consider? Read my mind? I looked very closely at a large number of sources. You have no idea what you are talking about. That's true about the accounts of both Irgun and Arab propagandists. Like Begin, for example. No, I never got that feeling. I got rather opposite feelings about people like you, though. Honesty? Perhaps you would explain the testimony from members of the Irgun, to be found in their own handwriting in the Irgun Archives in Tel Aviv, that the wounded Arabs were killed, that a group of 80 prisoners was massacred, that Lehi proposed exterminating everybody at the pre-raid meeting. Exactly what reasons can you propose that this testimony should be rejected in favour of Begin's? This is very funny. You carried on about unsupported evidence, propagandists, axes to grind, and you end up telling us to stick to the account of the leader of the alleged killers. You are obviously a hopeless case, as everyone can plainly see.
Is there anyone out there in NetLand that has/has had one of these? Can someone give me a non-Consumer Reports review (or point me to a source) ??? Thanks Scott ----------------------- sdexter@ucrengr.ucr.edu Computer Science Undergraduate, University of California, Riverside Internet : 138.23.166.21 sdexter@technet1.shl.com Facilities Engineer, SHL SystemHouse, Inc. ,Technology Network Internet : 192.75.61.2
My HP720 workstation uses PseudoColor (id 0x21, 255 colors) as the
There is a guy in NASA Johnson Space Center that might answer your question. I do not have his name right now but if you follow up I can dig that out for you. C.O.Egalon@larc.nasa.gov
I had a catalog with membrane keypads, but I dunno what happened to it, and it was so long ago that I forget the name of the company. Anyway, you could make your own legend and slip it behind the bezel. Really nice and reasonably priced. Can anyone tell me where to get some more of these critters? I've tried several places, but none of them seem to have keypads which allow you to use your own legend. Any suggestion would be appreciated.
You may also want to buy a 'self injector' or something like that. My friend is diabetic. You load the hyperdermic, put it in a plastic case and set a spring to automatically push the needle into the skin and depress the plunger. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Live From New York, It's SATURDAY NIGHT...
No, but I have several other breakdowns of accidental shootings. I've never seen one that specifically provides the info that Davis insists that he has, so I'd love to have a cite. Wrong. There's one gun design where that can happen, and it is supposed to be carried with the hammer over an unloaded chamber. (Cocking the gun turns the cylinder so that a loaded cylinder is under the hammer. In other words, it can be usefully carried in a safe manner.) Other handgun designs don't have that property; if their trigger isn't pulled, the hammer can't hit the firing pin. The breakdowns that I do have include the above category. From them I can safely say that if Davis is right in ALL of his claims, a large negative number of people are killed by animals, because we know that the number of killings by wackos is reasonably large and that the number of accidents due to gun failures (which is a superset of the described circumstance) is near zero. Please do. Include a cite for those of us who like looking at context. Make sure that your source excludes other types of accidents and suicides that are misreported. ("Gun cleaning accident" is police-speak for "the family needs the insurance money.") -andy
: : I believe this raid was ill planned because they only had 2 days to plan it, : and it was continued when failure was obvious because it had a bit part : in the much larger political agenda of President Clinton. I would even : suggest that the loss of 4 ATF agents is inconsequential in this the : context of his political agenda. It MIGHT even be beneficial to his agenda, : as it helps point up just how evil these assualt weapons are. Further proof : might be that the ATF denied their agents (Street Stories report) requests : for sufficient fire power. : : Important dates: : Feb 25th - NJ assembly votes to overturn assault weapon ban. : Feb 28th - Compound in Waco attacked. : : On Feb. 25th the New Jersey assembly voted to overturn the assault weapon : ban in that state. It looked like it might be a tight vote, but the Senate : in N.J. was going to vote to overturn the ban. It would not sit well to have : an Eastern state overturn an assault weapon ban, given Clintons stated : agenda on gun control. I suspect Clinton gave the order to get someone or : some: group with assualt weapons and have the press present (they were : initially : at the incident in Waco) to record the event for the TV audience. The agent : on "Street Stories" reported that a supervisor was urging them all to "get : ready fast", as "they know we are coming". I believe this attack continued, : even tho the probablility of failure was high, because it came from the top : down. After the N.J. assembly vote, the ATF had a limited amount of time to : come up with something, and the Wackos in Waco fit the bill nicely. : : ...rich I don't know Rich. Last year when the congress was debating the Bushmans 'Crime Bill', the incident at Lubys' cafe occured. Most of the anti-gun crap was amended out of the bill anyway. Could a president 'order': go find some 'assault weapons' and bring the media". I hope not. Frankly, the Toon-meister* scares me. Of course having a Democratic majority in congress doesn't help. (Apologies to all Demos' who support RKBA) ( *definition: toon-meister - a characatureic name for the current president of the U.S.: Clinton aka, Clintoon aka Toon-meister.)
I'll go 2 feet, but I draw the line at 3.
From article <C5owCB.n3p@world.std.com>, by tombaker@world.std.com (Tom A Baker): My understanding is that the 'expected errors' are basically known bugs in the warning system software - things are checked that don't have the right values in yet because they aren't set till after launch, and suchlike. Rather than fix the code and possibly introduce new bugs, they just tell the crew 'ok, if you see a warning no. 213 before liftoff, ignore it'.
Please list the names of some of those neutral reporters that were killed in the "O.T.". It is also interesting to note that at the outbreak of the intifada, palestinian parties quickly began orchestrating their demonstrations for the benefit of the media. Having spoken to a Danish reporter who covered the initfada, I know of at least one case where he found out that a "mass demonstration" on the outskirts of Gaza was setup for himself and his colleagues. When I asked whether the footage shot was sent he replied affirmatively, "after all, it did happen." When this became the case, the IDF began closing sensitive trouble spots to reporters.
Right. So all the cops will be buying antique muscle cars for chase cars; otherwise the *police* cars will die too! ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | To get the attention of a large animal, be it an | elephant or a bureaucracy, it helps to know what George Patterson - | part of it feels pain. Be very sure, though, that | you want its full attention. | Kelvin Throop
: : "But Hadas might be a fictitious character invented by the two men for : billing purposes, said Mohammed Mehdi, head of the Arab-American Relations Committee." : : Tim I would remind readers of the fact that the NY Daily News on March 5th reported the arrest of Joise Hadas. Foreign newspapers reported her release shortly afterwards. I can provide copies of the articles upon request.
As a stong self-defense advocate, you're 'statement', does littel but irk me. Of course shooting someone because they throw a rock at your car is out of the question, but what if they disabled your car with their rock and then wanted to come kill/rape/rob/beat/ or otherwise harm you, your wife, kids? I think you would like the power to defend yourself in this situation, wouldn't you? Or is it that you value the lives of such rock throwers more than your own or those of your family? Don't think it couldn't happen to you. From the sounds of it here it has happened to a few people. Please do not misunderstand. The only justification for using deadly force on someone, is that if you don't, it will mean your own death or grave bodily harm. I am far far away from supporting vilante justice or anything like that.. Oh, and if you mean to be funny, please add the appropriate :-) Followups to talk.politics.guns please... we're getting a bit off track here....
Ditto for me..
It seems to me that many readers of this conference are interested who is behind the Center for Polict Research. I will oblige. My name is Elias Davidsson, Icelandic citizen, born in Palestine. My mother was thrown from Germany because she belonged to the 'undesirables' (at that times this group was defined as 'Jews'). She was forced to go to Palestine due to many cynical factors. I have meanwhile settled in Iceland (30 years ago) and met many people who were thrown out from my homeland, Palestine, because of the same reason (they belonged to the 'indesirables'). These people include my neighbors in Jerusalem with the children of whom I played as child. Their crime: Theyare not Jews. My conscience does not accept such injustice, period. My work for justice is done in the name of my principled opposition to racism and racial discrimination. Those who protest against such practices in Arab countries have my support - as long as their protest is based on a principled position, but not as a tactic to deflect criticism from Israel. The struggle against discrimination and racism is universal. The Center for Policy Research is a name I gave to those activities undertaken under my guidance in different domains, and which command the support of many volunteers in Iceland. It is however not a formal institution and works with minimal funds. Professionally I am music teacher and composer. I have published several pieces and my piano music is taught widely in Europe. I would hope that discussion about Israel/Palestine be conducted in a more civilized manner. Calling names is not helpful.
I did the same thing to my drain plug for the same reasons. I was wondering how you filled your crankcase though as I welded my hood shut also out of fear that somebody might steal my air-filter.
I was laughing about the law part. I've driven thru SOHO...manahattan, _I_ know what' you're talking 'bout... :^) Not that Durham, NC is any better... (well, maybe a little bit anyway, but the NC DOT takes more money from road taxes and puts it in their own pockets and into the pockets of the guys building the large condos that need their own roads than they do back into fixing roads, but hey, the local paper did a report of this last summer, and boy, am I glad I don't work for the DOT, 'cause they got SHAT on, bigtime....wonder who lost their jobs? ED? Got any idea?)
Has anyone noticed or commented on the fact that so many of those who were willing, nay demanding, that we wait forever for Mr Hussein and Iraq, that we use tremendously costly "sanctions", to avoid a loss of life, are now at the fore front of those clammoring that we should have smashed those "religious radicals" and we were wasting money allowing this stand off to go on ? How the worm turns when the sect changes.
-- : I want only two things from this world, a 58 Plymouth and a small : : OPEC nation with which to fuel it. This would be a good and just : : thing. Car Smashers can just go home and sulk. : : Jacques Brouillette --- Manufacturing Engineering :
on Date: Sat, 3 Apr 1993 12:38:50 GMT, Paul Dietz <dietz@cs.rochester.edu> /in essence, holding a match under the nozzle, is just *nuts*. One /thing you absolutely must do in such an engine is to guarantee that /the propellants ignite as soon as they mix, within milliseconds. To /do otherwise is to fill your engine with a high explosive mixture /which, when it finally does ignite, blows everything to hell. Definitely! In one of the reports of an early test conducted by Rocketdyne at their Santa Susanna Field Lab ("the Hill" above the San Fernando and Simi Valleys), the result of a hung start was described as "structural failure" of the combustion chamber. The inspection picture showed pumps with nothing below , the CC had vaporized! This was described in a class I took as a "typical engineering understatement" :-)
I have two questions (well probably more...) about how Expose & Configure events are handled. I have an appl. which uses 1 window to draw in. Since I give the user the capability of scaling and zooming as well as allowing the window to be resized, I made a translation table for the Expose & Configure events. The Expose event calls my redraw method while the Configure event calls my rescale method. The rescale method invokes a "fake" Expose event (actually just calls the redraw w/ an appropriate Expose struct) to draw the data. Quest 1. When the appl. is compiled/linked w/ R4 (running in either R4 or R5 env.) I get multiple (>4) redraws when the window gets uncovered or the size is changed. I assume I'm getting cascading events. Is that right? Any suggestions as to how to handle/trap events in a better way? Quest 2. When the appl. is compiled/linked w/ R5 I get no Expose events whatsoever. Do events and/or translation tables act differently in R5? Thanks in advance Steve -- ==========================================================================================
Jeff, If you have time to type it in I'd love to have the reference for that paper! thanks! -- kathleen richards email: karicha@eis.calstate.edu
I have had the exact same problem, but have not figured out a solution. I run a PC with Linux (free-unix) with X11r5 and OpenWindows 3.0, I would appreciate any solutions. ewz --
I attribute my success to several factors: Very low fat. Except when someone else has cooked a meal for me, I only eat fruit, vegetables, and whole grain or bran cereals. I estimate I only get about 5 to 10 percent of my calories from fat. Very little sugar or salt. Very high fiber. Most Americans get about 10 grams. 25 to 35 are recommended. I get between 50 and 150. Sometimes 200. (I've heard of people taking fiber pills. It seems unlikely that pills can contain enough fiber to make a difference. It would be about as likely as someone getting fat by popping fat pills. Tablets are just too small, unless you snarf down hundreds of them daily.) My "clean your plate" conditioning works *for* me. Eating the last 10% takes half my eating time, and gives satiety a chance to catch up, so I don't still feel hungry and go start eating something else. I don't eat when I'm not hungry (unless I'm sure I'll get hungry shortly, and eating won't be practical then). I bike to work, 22 miles a day, year round. Fast. I also bike to stores, movies, and everywhere else, as I've never owned a car. I estimate this burns about 1000 calories a day. It also helps build and maintain muscle mass, prevent insulin resistance (diabetes runs in my family), and increase my metabolism. (Even so, my metabolism is so low that when I'm at rest I'm most comfortable with a temperature in the 90s (F), and usually wear a sweater if it drops to 80.) Cycling also motivates me to avoid every excess ounce. (Cyclists routinely pay a premium for cycling products that weigh slightly less than others. But it's easier and cheaper to trim weight from the rider than from the vehicle.) There's no question in my mind that my metabolism is radically different from that of most people who have never been fat. Fortunately, it isn't different in a way that precludes excellent health. Obviously, I can't swear that every obese person who does what I've done will have the success I did. But I've never yet heard of one who did try it and didn't succeed. I'm sure everyone's weight cycles, whether or not they've ever been fat. I usually eat extremely little salt. When I do eat something salty, my weight can increase overnight by as much as ten pounds. It comes off again over a week or two. -- Keith Lynch, kfl@access.digex.com
Where the hell do you get off calling it "Arab land"? Jews have been living there for a long time. Jews didn't just start arriving in 1900, they've been living there for thousands of years, except for periods when they were expelled but they always returned home. Steve --
Is there no JUSTICE?! If I lost my leg when I was 19, and had to give up motorcycling (assuming David didn't know that it can be done one-legged,) I too would want to get swamped.... maybe even for ten years! I'll admit, I'd probably prefer homebrew to pubbrew, but still... Judge Coterill is in some serious trouble, I can tell you that. Any chance you can get to him and convince him his ruling was backward, Nick? Perhaps the lad deserved something for starting a brawl (bad form... horribly bad form,) but for getting drunk? That, I thought, was ones natural born right! And for spending his own money? My goodness, who cares what one does with one's own moolah, even if one spends it recklessly? I'm ashamed of humanity.
The Apollo astronauts also trained at (in) Meteor Crater in the Flagstaff area (Arizona). There is now a museum with a space shop. Caution: they ease you by 6$. Compared to a KSC visit it's not worth.
The flushing is due to vascular dilation, part of a migraine attack. Some people event get puffy and swollen. As long as you are careful you can see well enough to avoid getting hit in the face or eye by the ball, migraine will not hurt your health. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Hmm. $1 billion, lesse... I can probably launch 100 tons to LEO at $200 million, in five years, which gives about 20 tons to the lunar surface one-way. Say five tons of that is a return vehicle and its fuel, a bigger Mercury or something (might get that as low as two tons), leaving fifteen tons for a one-man habitat and a year's supplies? Gee, with that sort of mass margins I can build the systems off the shelf for about another hundred million tops. That leaves about $700 million profit. I like this idea 8-) Let's see if you guys can push someone to make it happen 8-) 8-) [slightly seriously]
If you're willing to do a little work, you can make DrawnButtons do what you want, more-or-less. One of my colleagues here at GE CRD has done just that in our internal LYMB system. We have a matrix transform class that makes it easy to compute a series of dial positions from a single set of vectors. Each set of vectors is then drawn into a pixmap. Clicking the button advances the knob's state and changes to the next pixmap in the sequence. Using DrawnButtons obviously still constrains you to taking up a rectangular portion of the parent widget, but that's normally not a big shortcoming. You can make things look circular enough.
I have a 86 chevy sprint with a/c and 4doors. It's odometer turned 90k and the sensor light started blinking. I went to the dealer and he said it was a maintenance light saying I need to change the Oxygen sensor. He said, It is to be changed every 30k, but since I bought the car when it had 77k, I don't know if the same thing happened at 30k and 60k. He quoted $198 for the part and $50 to install it. The part cost $30 outside, but the mechanic I went to could not fix it saying the sensor is placed too deep in the engine parts. He suggested I wait till it malfunctions before I do anything. If anyone out there owns a chevy sprint, I want to know how they got their Oxygen sensors changed. Also, did you face any problem with fixing it without the dealer's help. Also, what are the results of the oxygen sensor malfunction. Any help would be greatly apprecisted Thanks Nagesh
impertinent stuff deleted There you go again, you edu-breath poser! "University-ness" indeed! Leave that stuff to us professionals.
I have just started reading the articles in this news group. There seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet other members with scare tactics. I believe one posting said that all postings by one person are being forwarded to his server who keeps a file on him in hope that "Appropriate action might be taken". I don't know where you guys are from but in America such attempts to curtail someones first amendment rights are not appreciated. Here, we let everyone speak their mind regardless of how we feel about it. Take your fascistic repressive ideals back to where you came from.
Choose any or all of the following as an answer to the above:
I have and use xrecplay for X11R5. Does one exist for X11R4??? I have tried to contact one of the developers, Eric Swildens, at ess@hal.com but he is no longer there and has no forwarding email address. Archie is no help either. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks,
Last week I asked for help in getting an old homemade amp working with my Sun CD-ROM drive. It turns out that the channel I was testing with was burned out in the amp. The other channel works fine. So now I need a new amplifier chip. My local Radio Shack no longer carries components! The chip is a 12 pin SIP (?) labelled with BA5406 and then "502 515" below that. Does anyone have a source? Thanks,
}Crazy question: "Anyone ever wonder how birds can drop a load on a car }going over 65 MPH" ? } }I took a non-stop trip, got shitted on FOUR times (every time hitting the }windshield, not even the open sunroof! Guess we have conscientious birds ;) }Was going 75 MPH. } } I used to have a '67 Galaxie convertible, was sitting at a light waiting for it to turn green. It turned green, but I hesitated a little (sleeping I guess) and a bird bombed me, it landed directly in front of me at eye level, I guess the bird miscalculated and thought I was going to take off right away. And I'm still trying to figure out the one I got under my rear bumper as well ?!?!?! Was the bird flying up and doing fancy acrobatics at my car and decided to drop one while executing a perfect loop?? -- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- TT030 |'87 Mustang GT |George Kirkaldie ||| |Pioneer, Audio Control |gkirkaldie@sanity.tdkcs.waterloo.on.ca ||| |Phoenix Gold, Kicker | / | \ |Flowmaster, Motorsport |Cambridge, Ontario, Canada A T A R I | |
Well, it looks like I'm F*cked for insurance. I had a DWI in 91 and for the beemer, as a rec. vehicle, it'll cost me almost $1200 bucks to insure/year. Now what do I do? (I could probably just sell the bike and return my DoD number,... )
I was hoping for something like "The chassis exhibits X degrees of flex when subjected to forces of more than Y units. Forces of more than Y units begin to manifest at Z miles per hour." Not "Well, gee, it wasn't designed to go fast because, uhh, well, gee, it wasn't designed to go fast. It's not a Porsche, you know". Well, as compared to the normal Taurus, the SHO comes with more supportive seats,better brakes,a stiffer suspension, different tires, and a body design that takes advantage of aero effects to keep the car on the ground (or at least I think that's what all that boy-racer plastic is for). You're kidding yourself if you think any car on the road has a passenger compartment made to withstand 130 MPH impacts. Oh, right. Only 120,000 dollar cars should be driven fast. They drive goddamn Rabbits at 120 MPH in Europe, pal, and I reckon a Taurus is at least as capable as a Rabbit. Of course not. "Speeding-is-bad. Speeding-is-illegal. I-will-not-speed. I-love-Big-Brother." You had your mind made up already. It's interesting that lots of the roads out west had *NO* speed limits until 1975.
Not according to the NEC nor the CEC, as explained in the electrical wiring FAQ, which I posted here separately. Note the material under the headings and Of course, as they said -- "Local codes may vary". I'm not sure about this. If the ground connections on the outlets are connected to anything, they should be connected to a wire that runs back to the main panel, where it is bonded to the neutral connector and to the house ground rod. A connection to a local earth ground would not necessarily meet one of the goals of the ground wire, which is that if a short develops from hot to the ground wire, enough current would flow to trip the breaker. Hmmm. How are those orange "isolated ground" outlets (often used in computer rooms) wired?
I bought this chip from Suncoast Technology and tried to build their dtmf decoder circuit. But it's not working... If anyone has the pinouts and possibly the voltage specs I'd sure appreciated it. If someone could fax, email, or snail mail a copy of the spec sheet for this chip that would be even better. :) Please email me if you can help. Thanks in advance, -- Mont Pierce
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ There is a picture in the May 1993 edition of European Car (although, it may not be on the shelf yet). - prototype has front wheel drive (first front drive for Mercedes since the beginning of WWII) - wheelbase 3.15m - 7 seater - they claim that the price will be about the same as a Renault Espace or Chrysler Voyager (DM 50,000) Looking at the picture (slightly disguised) it looks like the Ford Aerostar, to me. . / Larry __/ _______/_ keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov / \ _____ __ _____ \------- === ----------- / ____/ / / /__ __/ \ / ___ / / ___ / / / / ____ | | / \/ /__ / | / /__ __/ /__ / \ / /___ \_______/ /_____/ /______/ ====OO \ / \ / - 1990 2.0 16v - ---------------- FAHRVERGNUGEN FOREVER! -------------------- The fact that I need to explain it to you indicates that you probably wouldn't understand anyway!
If your buying a compact pickup do yourself a favor and wait a few months for the 1994 GMC sonoma. Magazines are saying it is day and night over the current truck. It's georgeous, solid, and fast (200hp Vortec 4.3 V-6). Should whip the Ranger in every area too (accept maybe payload). And always pick a GMC over a Chevy. GMC's are always so much better looking. Man, I miss the Comanche. Marty and Matt Owings '87 250 ninja type rider dudes "It's a feeling that we all wanna know and it's an obsession to some to keep the world in you rearview mirror while you try to run down the sun"
I would be interested in hearing from anyone who knows of good software for antenna simulation, particularly in source form suitable for Unix workstations (though good PC software would also be of interest). I'm aware of the numerous mininec mutations, and have been using MN for some time now. I'm primarily interested in HF, VHF, and low UHF (< 500 MHz) designs, mostly wire antennas, but for thick wires and mesh surfaces as well as for your basic thin wire assumption. Is anything interesting happening with NEC itself? I've seen a version that was mutilated to run (sort of) under Microsoft Fortran, but I'm not sure how many "new and improved" versions of the code might be out there somewhere. I'd also be interested in non-NEC derivatives. The ones I've seen have been aimed at microwave applications, but if there is something out there useful at the lower frequencies, I'd like to know about it. Thanks,
That plastic bodywork is useless. That torque, and an upright riding position is better than a slightly or radically forward riding position combined with a high-rpm low torque motor. To a cruiser-motorcyclist, chrome has some importance. To sport-bike motorcyclists chrome has very little impact on buying choice. Unless motivated solely by price, these are the criteria each rider uses to select the vehicle of choice. To ignore these, as well as other criteria, would be insensitive. In other words, no one motorcycle can fufill the requirements that a sport-bike rider and a cruiser rider may have.(sometimes it's hard for *any* motorcycle to fufill a person's requirements) You're fishing for flames, Dave. This difference of opinion is analogous to the difference between Sports-car owners, and luxury-car owners. This is a moot conversation. -- => Dan DeClerck | EMAIL: declrckd@rtsg.mot.com <= => Motorola Cellular APD | <= =>"Friends don't let friends wear neon"| Phone: (708) 632-4596 <=
Also in pure speculation: Parity errors in memory or previously known conditions that were waivered. "Yes that is an error, but we already knew about it" Any problem where they decided a backup would handle it. Any problem in an area that was not criticality 1,2,3..., that is, any problem in a system they decided they could do without. I'd be curious as to what the real meaning of the quote is.
Although the Hebrew expression LE'UM is used, the ID card specifically states on the 2nd page: EZRACHUT YISREALIT: Israeli citizen. This is true for all Israeli citizens no matter what their ethnicity. In the United States most official forms have RACE (Caucasian, Black, AmerIndian, etc.). Funny, I have a number of maps and ALL of them have fixed borders. Probably yes. So what ? Apart from Mordechai Vanunu who had a trial behind closed doors, there was one other espionage case (the nutty professor at the Nes Ziona Biological Institute who was a K.G.B. mole) who was tried "in camera". I wouldn't exactly call it a state secret. The trial was simply tried behind closed doors. I hate to disappoint you but the United States has tried a number of espionage cases in camera. Not Jews. Israeli citizens. Jordanian law is in effect in the West Bank but the KNESSET passed a law that Israeli law would be binding on Israeli citizens residing in the West Bank. These citizens could be Jews, Israeli Muslims, Druze, or Israeli Christians. It has NOTHING to do with religion. Anyone who was registered (Jew, Muslim, Christian) could return. You might be confusing this with the census taken in June 1967 on the West Bank after the Six Day War. In *this* instance, if the Arab was not physically present he couldn't reside on the West Bank (e.g. if he had been visting Jordan). No. Not even if you drowned him in bourbon, scotch or brandy :-) Not true. Although a minority, there *are* some Israeli Arabs living on kibbutzim. On the other hand, at my age (42) I wouldn't be admitted to a kibbutz nor could the family join me. Not that I would be so thrilled to do so in the first place. The kibbbutz movement places candidates under rigorous membership criteria. Many Israeli Jews are not admitted. The religious status quo in Israel has marriage and divorce handled by the religious courts. The RABBANUT handles marriage and divorce for Jews, the Muslim SHAARIA courts are for Muslims, the Christian denominations have their religious courts, and the Druze have their own courts. The entire religious establishment (Jewish, Muslim, Druze, Christian) wants to keep it that way. I believe it's adjacent to a former Muslim cemetary. From what I heard (and I'd like to get feedback from Muslins on the net) sanctity of cemetaries is not held that sancrosanct as it is held by Jews. The current Israeli Ministry of Trade and Industry on Agron Road in Jerusalem is housed in a former hotel that was built by Arabs in the 1920's on the site of an Arab cemetary. Josh backon@VMS.HUJI.AC.IL
This design will work but I don't think it can take easily take advantage of expose event redraw optimization; that is, the whole window will be redrawn, not just the area with the new item.
How about Jews who were expelled from their homelands in Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Algeria, etc.? Don't they deserve justice, too? Why is your criticism ALWAYS directed against Israel, but never against the Arab states, even when they are so much more guilty of the accusations you make? Is it because you now call yourself a Palestinean? This is why the "land-for-peace" formula is so foolish. Land-for-land or peace-for-peace seems much more just, except that it would cost the Arabs something and so is not under consideration. Let's not forget that about half of Israel's population are refugees from Arab countries. Somehow, THEIR land now being occupied by Arab states and THEIR homes now being lived-in by Arab people are not included in any negotiations. Is this your prescription for peace? Again, you've somehow managed to overlook the fact that the Arab states are much more restrictive on these points. In fact, the officially Judenrein policies of almost all of the Arab states makes them resemble Nazi Germany chillingly closely. There are many states in which Christians can live happily, many which have official religions and Christian majorities and Christian-based laws. There are some 2 dozen Arab and Islamic states. There is only 1 (one) Jewish state. Do you have a problem with this? Is this one Jewish state too many? There are others who might agree with you, you know. Have you just arrived on tpm recently??? Again, the supporters of the Arab and Islamic camps are frequently and massively guilty of "emotional, infantile outbursts" which have weakened their positions dramatically. Somehow, your criticisms are very one-sided and simple-minded. P.S. How's the Fund coming along?
If gamma ray bursters are extragalactic, would absorption from the galaxy be expected? How transparent is the galactic core to gamma rays? How much energy does a burster put out? I know energy depends on distance, which is unknown. An answer of the form _X_ ergs per megaparsec^2 is OK.
The best auto-shifters on the street (AND NOT THE TRACK) are those from Porsche... they wont change if you floor the gas during a turn.... a few years back a was in a 200SX auto (you guys call it a 240SX [without turbo]) and was going round a corner.... I floored it and next thing I know I was pointing backwards! The other drivers seemed quite amused ;-)
Recurrent Volvulus ------------------- This is regarding recurrent volvulus which our little boy has been suffering from ever since he was an infant. He had a surgery when he was one year old. Another surgery had to be performed one year after, when he was two years old. He turned three this February and he is still getting afflicted by this illness, like having to get hospitalised for vomitting and accompanying stomach pain.He managed not having a third surgery so far. * One thing me and my wife noticed is that his affliction peaks around the time he was born, on nearabouts, like in March every year. Any significance to this? * Why does this recur? Me and my family go through severe pain when our little boy have to undergo surgery. Why does surgery not rectify the situation? * Also, which hospital in US or Canada specialize in this malady? * What will be a good book explaining this disease in detail? * Will keeping a particular diet keep down the probability of recurrence? * As time goes on, will the probability of recurrence go down considering he is getting stronger and healthier and probably less prone to attacks? Or is this assumption wrong? * Any help throwing light on these queries will be highly appreciated. Thanks very much!
You probably mean the mass murders of Jews in the West Bank between 1936-1939. Naftaly
Greetings! Situation: I have a phone jack mounted on a wall. I don't know the number of the line. And I don't want to call up the operator to place a trace on it.
I will join the ranks here. If someone has the ability to actually put this thing together and get enough support, I'll also contribute $1000 to the effort. And jeeze, people, I'm a *student*, with *no job* yet, and I will put up my own hard-earned savings if it means we have a shot at getting the truth told on the airwaves. Count me in. Mike Ruff
There was a Volvo owner that had $3000 dollars worth of improvements to the looks of the car by hail :).
*nnnnnnnng* Thank you for playing, I cannot agree with this. I believed this and to put it nicely, it was a piece of junk! I loved this car, I babied it, I pampered it, and after 2 years, it just couldn't stay together, I would say that not everyone will have the problems that I had, but know this, it's not just the car, it is the ability to get the car fixed, which will NOT happen at any chrysler/dodge/take your pick dealer. I don't care if there are going to reform their dealers/service with the intro of the LH cars, I will believe it when I see it. Case and point, the local dodge dealer. You drive up, just looking, you don't even get out of your door, when about 10 (yes 10) salesman all eye you like their next meal, and literally pounce on you, and try to get you to make a deal, on everything your eye wanders towards. Service is about 2 times worse than that. I had an alignment problem, but they tried to tell me that the K frame was bent, and about 2000 dollars of work/parts to fix it. Let me tell you the problems I had, and I took care of this car, I put alot of miles on it in the first couple years, but took it to every checkup it needed, and many that shouldn't have been. 1988 Dodge Shadow ES These were replaced within the 4 years that I owned the car. Engine 4 Alternators Rear Suspension Torsion Bar 2 Water pumps 5 thermostats Hall effect sensor Main computer 4 Batteries These were rebuilt/repaired Radiator Automatic Transmission Power Steering Those are just the things I can remember off the top of my head. For about a year before I sold the car, I said to myself, it's a good car, I just can't find anybody competent enough the fix it. In the end, before I traded it in for a Saturn, the power steering started acting up again. I just stopped putting money into it. I must have put at least $5000-$7000 worth of repairs over it's lifetime. I am sorry but Lee Iacocca can bite me. Bullshit, whoever backs em best, is just afraid the stupid things are going to fall apart, and no one will buy them without assurance, why the hell do you think that LH has been nicknamed Last Hope. You can do better, and I know people will disagree with me here, but Japanese, like Honda, or Toyota, or the only american car company that I feel is a quality product, Saturn. I will not touch another chrysler product again, no way. I don't care how good the LH cars look good, and I will admit they look promising, but not with the support that you get. GM isn't much better, thank god, they don't control Saturn, like they do their divisions, or it would be just another marketing ploy. Don't get me wrong, i will be watching my car (which I do like) like a hawk for the next 4 years. I am much more hesitant to say it (or any) car is really good, until it has proved itself to me. But since someone else pointed out C&D as a source. I will note, because I used to read these magazines, that Car and Driver has never had a good thing to say about most Chrysler products (Shadow for one), always were they moaning about the reguritated K-car, and engine. Whereas Motor Trend always thought they were great cars. No car magazine is really objective. And although there are alot of people who don't like Consumers Reports, I will use them to reinforce my argument (I already know about the big stink with the Saturn crash tests, time will tell how good a car they are), the shadow/sundance rate much worse than average, in fact none of the chrysler's rate a better than average, I think the best one is just average. Excluding the diamond star/mitsubishi stuff and the LH's. You can find bad stuff about the Shadow. Try as I might, when I researched the Saturn, I could not find anything bad about it. There is a great deal of information about this company, just because it is a new american company and it has created quite a stir in the automotive community, for good reason. Much more than the introduction of any new model lines of any established company. I read an article, which had a sub-column, an I think this imprinted on me more than anything else. Some big wig in Toyota said and I quote, "We are watching them very closely." Come on, everybody grow up, the foreign cars, especially the japanese have been kicking our butts, for good reason, the american car companies could not make a good product or support the customer the way they want these days, to set in their ways, which is one of the reasons Saturn was created. They are still struggling because they haven't learned yet. They have the ability, the workers are not inferior, the technology is not out of date, but their attitude is, and they are just finding this out. It's called competition gentleman/women if you don't satisfy the demand of the consumer, well your out.. *asbestos suit on*
Which one? The one yesterday, or has there been another? If it was yester- day, catch up. IMO, 90% of all "conspiracy" charges are easily explained by the simple fact that in these days of instantaneous news transmission, all kinds of stuff gets said when people really just don't know what the hell's going on. Then the story changes once the facts are in and suddenly cries of "its all a whitewash!" start. Naturally, everybody wants to cover his/her ass. Damnfino. I just tend to take issue with absolute statements that are ob- viously wrong on their face and tend to inflame, not inform. The isolation was significant, but not total. semper fi,
Archive-name: space/groups Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:08 $ SPACE ACTIVIST/INTEREST/RESEARCH GROUPS AND SPACE PUBLICATIONS GROUPS AIA -- Aerospace Industry Association. Professional group, with primary membership of major aerospace firms. Headquartered in the DC area. Acts as the "voice of the aerospace industry" -- and it's opinions are usually backed up by reams of analyses and the reputations of the firms in AIA. [address needed] AIAA -- American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Professional association, with somewhere about 30,000-40,000 members. 65 local chapters around the country -- largest chapters are DC area (3000 members), LA (2100 members), San Francisco (2000 members), Seattle/NW (1500), Houston (1200) and Orange County (1200), plus student chapters. Not a union, but acts to represent aviation and space professionals (engineers, managers, financial types) nationwide. Holds over 30 conferences a year on space and aviation topics publishes technical Journals (Aerospace Journal, Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets, etc.), technical reference books and is _THE_ source on current aerospace state of the art through their published papers and proceedings. Also offers continuing education classes on aerospace design. Has over 60 technical committees, and over 30 committees for industry standards. AIAA acts as a professional society -- offers a centralized resume/jobs function, provides classes on job search, offers low-cost health and life insurance, and lobbies for appropriate legislation (AIAA was one of the major organizations pushing for IRAs - Individual Retirement Accounts). Very active public policy arm -- works directly with the media, congress and government agencies as a legislative liaison and clearinghouse for inquiries about aerospace technology technical issues. Reasonably non-partisan, in that they represent the industry as a whole, and not a single company, organization, or viewpoint. Membership $70/yr (student memberships are less). American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics The Aerospace Center 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW Washington, DC 20077-0820 (202)-646-7400 AMSAT - develops small satellites (since the 1960s) for a variety of uses by amateur radio enthusiasts. Has various publications, supplies QuickTrak satellite tracking software for PC/Mac/Amiga etc. Amateur Satellite Corporation (AMSAT) P.O. Box 27 Washington, DC 20044 (301)-589-6062 ASERA - Australian Space Engineering and Research Association. An Australian non-profit organisation to coordinate, promote, and conduct space R&D projects in Australia, involving both Australian and international (primarily university) collaborators. Activities include the development of sounding rockets, small satellites (especially microsatellites), high-altitude research balloons, and appropriate payloads. Provides student projects at all levels, and is open to any person or organisation interested in participating. Publishes a monthly newsletter and a quarterly technical journal. Membership $A100 (dual subscription) Subscriptions $A25 (newsletter only) $A50 (journal only) ASERA Ltd PO Box 184 Ryde, NSW, Australia, 2112 email: lindley@syd.dit.csiro.au BIS - British Interplanetary Society. Probably the oldest pro-space group, BIS publishes two excellent journals: _Spaceflight_, covering current space activities, and the _Journal of the BIS_, containing technical papers on space activities from near-term space probes to interstellar missions. BIS has published a design study for an interstellar probe called _Daedalus_. British Interplanetary Society 27/29 South Lambeth Road London SW8 1SZ ENGLAND No dues information available at present. ISU - International Space University. ISU is a non-profit international graduate-level educational institution dedicated to promoting the peaceful exploration and development of space through multi-cultural and multi-disciplinary space education and research. For further information on ISU's summer session program or Permanent Campus activities please send messages to 'information@isu.isunet.edu' or contact the ISU Executive Offices at: International Space University 955 Massachusetts Avenue 7th Floor Cambridge, MA 02139 (617)-354-1987 (phone) (617)-354-7666 (fax) L-5 Society (defunct). Founded by Keith and Carolyn Henson in 1975 to advocate space colonization. Its major success was in preventing US participation in the UN "Moon Treaty" in the late 1970s. Merged with the National Space Institute in 1987, forming the National Space Society. NSC - National Space Club. Open for general membership, but not well known at all. Primarily comprised of professionals in aerospace industry. Acts as information conduit and social gathering group. Active in DC, with a chapter in LA. Monthly meetings with invited speakers who are "heavy hitters" in the field. Annual "Outlook on Space" conference is _the_ definitive source of data on government annual planning for space programs. Cheap membership (approx $20/yr). [address needed] NSS - the National Space Society. NSS is a pro-space group distinguished by its network of local chapters. Supports a general agenda of space development and man-in-space, including the NASA space station. Publishes _Ad Astra_, a monthly glossy magazine, and runs Shuttle launch tours and Space Hotline telephone services. A major sponsor of the annual space development conference. Associated with Spacecause and Spacepac, political lobbying organizations. Membership $18 (youth/senior) $35 (regular). National Space Society Membership Department 922 Pennsylvania Avenue, S.E. Washington, DC 20003-2140 (202)-543-1900 Planetary Society - founded by Carl Sagan. The largest space advocacy group. Publishes _Planetary Report_, a monthly glossy, and has supported SETI hardware development financially. Agenda is primarily support of space science, recently amended to include an international manned mission to Mars. The Planetary Society 65 North Catalina Avenue Pasadena, CA 91106 Membership $35/year. SSI - the Space Studies Institute, founded by Dr. Gerard O'Neill. Physicist Freeman Dyson took over the Presidency of SSI after O'Neill's death in 1992. Publishes _SSI Update_, a bimonthly newsletter describing work-in-progress. Conducts a research program including mass-drivers, lunar mining processes and simulants, composites from lunar materials, solar power satellites. Runs the biennial Princeton Conference on Space Manufacturing. Membership $25/year. Senior Associates ($100/year and up) fund most SSI research. Space Studies Institute 258 Rosedale Road PO Box 82 Princeton, NJ 08540 SEDS - Students for the Exploration and Development of Space. Founded in 1980 at MIT and Princeton. SEDS is a chapter-based pro-space organization at high schools and universities around the world. Entirely student run. Each chapter is independent and coordinates its own local activities. Nationally, SEDS runs a scholarship competition, design contests, and holds an annual international conference and meeting in late summer. Students for the Exploration and Development of Space MIT Room W20-445 77 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02139 (617)-253-8897 email: odyssey@athena.mit.edu Dues determined by local chapter. SPACECAUSE - A political lobbying organization and part of the NSS Family of Organizations. Publishes a bi-monthly newsletter, Spacecause News. Annual dues is $25. Members also receive a discount on _The Space Activist's Handbook_. Activities to support pro-space legislation include meeting with political leaders and interacting with legislative staff. Spacecause primarily operates in the legislative process. National Office West Coast Office Spacecause Spacecause 922 Pennsylvania Ave. SE 3435 Ocean Park Blvd. Washington, D.C. 20003 Suite 201-S (202)-543-1900 Santa Monica, CA 90405 SPACEPAC - A political action committee and part of the NSS Family of Organizations. Spacepac researches issues, policies, and candidates. Each year, updates _The Space Activist's Handbook_. Current Handbook price is $25. While Spacepac does not have a membership, it does have regional contacts to coordinate local activity. Spacepac primarily operates in the election process, contributing money and volunteers to pro-space candidates. Spacepac 922 Pennsylvania Ave. SE Washington, DC 20003 (202)-543-1900 UNITED STATES SPACE FOUNDATION - a public, non-profit organization supported by member donations and dedicated to promoting international education, understanding and support of space. The group hosts an annual conference for teachers and others interested in education. Other projects include developing lesson plans that use space to teach other basic skills such as reading. Publishes "Spacewatch," a monthly B&W glossy magazine of USSF events and general space news. Annual dues: Charter $50 ($100 first year) Individual $35 Teacher $29 College student $20 HS/Jr. High $10 Elementary $5 Founder & $1000+ Life Member United States Space Foundation PO Box 1838 Colorado Springs, CO 80901 (719)-550-1000 WORLD SPACE FOUNDATION - has been designing and building a solar-sail spacecraft for longer than any similar group; many JPL employees lend their talents to this project. WSF also provides partial funding for the Palomar Sky Survey, an extremely successful search for near-Earth asteroids. Publishes *Foundation News* and *Foundation Astronautics Notebook*, each a quarterly 4-8 page newsletter. Contributing Associate, minimum of $15/year (but more money always welcome to support projects). World Space Foundation Post Office Box Y South Pasadena, California 91301 PUBLICATIONS Aerospace Daily (McGraw-Hill) Very good coverage of aerospace and space issues. Approx. $1400/yr. Air & Space / Smithsonian (bimonthly magazine) Box 53261 Boulder, CO 80332-3261 $18/year US, $24/year international ESA - The European Space Agency publishes a variety of periodicals, generally available free of charge. A document describing them in more detail is in the Ames SPACE archive in pub/SPACE/FAQ/ESAPublications. Final Frontier (mass-market bimonthly magazine) - history, book reviews, general-interest articles (e.g. "The 7 Wonders of the Solar System", "Everything you always wanted to know about military space programs", etc.) Final Frontier Publishing Co. PO Box 534 Mt. Morris, IL 61054-7852 $14.95/year US, $19.95 Canada, $23.95 elsewhere Space News (weekly magazine) - covers US civil and military space programs. Said to have good political and business but spotty technical coverage. Space News Springfield VA 22159-0500 (703)-642-7330 $75/year, may have discounts for NSS/SSI members Journal of the Astronautical Sciences and Space Times - publications of the American Astronautical Society. No details. AAS Business Office 6352 Rolling Mill Place, Suite #102 Springfield, VA 22152 (703)-866-0020 GPS World (semi-monthly) - reports on current and new uses of GPS, news and analysis of the system and policies affecting it, and technical and product issues shaping GPS applications. GPS World 859 Willamette St. P.O. Box 10460 Eugene, OR 97440-2460 (503)-343-1200 Free to qualified individuals; write for free sample copy. Innovation (Space Technology) -- Free. Published by the NASA Office of Advanced Concepts and Technology. A revised version of the NASA Office of Commercial Programs newsletter. Planetary Encounter - in-depth technical coverage of planetary missions, with diagrams, lists of experiments, interviews with people directly involved. World Spaceflight News - in-depth technical coverage of near-Earth spaceflight. Mostly covers the shuttle: payload manifests, activity schedules, and post-mission assessment reports for every mission. Box 98 Sewell, NJ 08080 $30/year US/Canada $45/year elsewhere Space (bi-monthly magazine) British aerospace trade journal. Very good. $75/year. Space Calendar (weekly newsletter) Space Daily/Space Fax Daily (newsletter) Short (1 paragraph) news notes. Available online for a fee (unknown). Space Technology Investor/Commercial Space News -- irregular Internet column on aspects of commercial space business. Free. Also limited fax and paper edition. P.O. Box 2452 Seal Beach, CA 90740-1452. All the following are published by: Phillips Business Information, Inc. 7811 Montrose Road Potomac, MC 20854 Aerospace Financial News - $595/year. Defense Daily - Very good coverage of space and defense issues. $1395/year. Space Business News (bi-weekly) - Very good overview of space business activities. $497/year. Space Exploration Technology (bi-weekly) - $495/year. Space Station News (bi-weekly) - $497/year. UNDOCUMENTED GROUPS Anyone who would care to write up descriptions of the following groups (or others not mentioned) for inclusion in the answer is encouraged to do so. AAS - American Astronautical Society Other groups not mentioned above
Article in this morning's Houston Post...."negotiators send food to rebellious inmates as humanitarian gesture"...speaking about the Ohio prison riot where they have killed at least one of the hostage guards. I know it's not the same "group" but the mindset appears to be common to "those what rule" here lately....they won't give diddley to the BD's in Waco but they treat criminals as deserving of "humanitarian gestures". This is but another indicator that the criminal caste seems to enjoy more priviliges in today's society than their victims or other law abiding citizens. What is it that makes the criminal so precious to the "leaders of the system"? Could it be that the criminal is one of the "tools" the "authorities" are using to "excuse" some of the rights negation they are trying to foist upon the law abiding citizen in the name of crime control....don't solve the crime problem because then the citizen couldn't be held hostage to "our help". If the crime problem were solved in favor of the citizen/victim at the expense of the criminal none of the crap such as RICO and gun banning could be used as excuses to work the agenda of those who would control our every move and thought. --- . OLX 2.2 . If I have to explain, you wouldn't understand.
subscribe min@stella.skku.ac.kr
WASHINGTON - A stark reminder of the Holocaust--a speech by Nazi SS leader Heinrich Himmler that refers to "the extermination of the Jewish race"--went on display Friday at the National Archives. The documents, including handwritten notes by Himmler, are among the best evidence that exists to rebut claims that the Holocaust is a myth, archivists say. "The notes give them their authenticity," said Robert Wolfe, a supervisory archivist for captured German records. "He was supposed to destroy them. Like a lot of bosses, he didn't obey his own rules." The documents, moved out of Berlin to what Himmler hoped would be a safe hiding place, were recovered by Allied forces after World War II from a salt mine near Salzburg, Austria. Himmler spoke on Oct.4, 1943, in Posen, Poland, to more than 100 German secret police generals. "I also want to talk to you, quite frankly, on a very grave matter. Among ourselves it should be mentioned quite frankly, and yet we will never speak of it publicly. I mean the clearing out of the Jew, the extermination of the Jewish race. This is a page of GLORY in our history which has never been written and is never to be written." [Emphasis mine--rje] The German word Himmler uses that is translated as "extermination" is *Ausrottung*. Wolfe said a more precise translation would be "extirpation" or "tearing up by the roots." In his handwritten notes, Himmler used a euphemism, "Judenevakuierung" or "evacuation of the Jews." But archives officials said "extermination" is the word he actually spoke--preserved on an audiotape in the archives. Himmler, who oversaw Adolf Hitler's "final solution of the Jewish question," committed suicide after he was arrested in 1945. The National Archives exhibit, on display through May 16, is a preview of the opening of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum here on April 26. The National Archives exhibit includes a page each of Himmler's handwritten notes, a typed transcript from the speech and an offical translation made for the Nuremberg war crimes trials. ---From p.A10 of Saturday's L.A. Times, 4/17/93 (Associated Press)
Come on! Most if not all Arabs are sympathetic to the Palestinian war against Israel. That is why the ADL monitors Arab organizations. That is the same reason the US monitored communist organizations and Soviet nationals only a few years ago. All of these groups have, in the past, associated with or been a part of anti- Israel activity or propoganda. The ADL is simply monitoring them so that if anything comes up, they won't be caught by surprise. No, that is why World Trade Center bombings don't happen in Israel (aside from the fact that there is no world trade center) and why people like Zein Isa ( Palestinian whose American group planned to bow up the Israeli Embassy and "kill many Jews.") are caught. As Mordechai Levy of the JDL said, Paranoid Jews live longer. They probably do.
They must be shipping that good Eau Clair acid to California now.
Why use a ground launch pad. It is entirely posible to launch from altitude. This was what the Shuttle was originally intended to do! It might be seriously cheaper. Also, what about bio-engineered CO2 absorbing plants instead of many LOX bottles? Stick 'em in a lunar cave and put an airlock on the door.
American, perhaps, but nothing military about it. I learned (mostly) slugs when we talked English units in high school physics and while the teacher was an ex-Navy fighter jock the book certainly wasn't produced by the military. [Poundals were just too flinking small and made the math come out funny; sort of the same reason proponents of SI give for using that.] -- "Insisting on perfect safety is for people who don't have the balls to live in the real world." -- Mary Shafer, NASA Ames Dryden
SSRT ROLLOUT Speech Delivered by Col. Simon P. Worden, The Deputy for Technology, SDIO Mcdonnell Douglas - Huntington Beach April 3,1993 Most of you, as am I, are "children of the 1960's." We grew up in an age of miracles -- Inter-Continental Ballistic Missiles, nuclear energy, computers, flights to the moon. But these were miracles of our parent's doing. For a decade and more the pundits have told us - "you've lost it!" The "me" generation is only living on the accomplishments of the past. You and I have even begun to believe the pessimists. We listen in awe as the past generation tells of its triumphs. Living history they are. We are privileged to hear those who did it tell of it. A few weeks ago some of this very team listened in awe as General Bernie Schriever told of his team's work - and yes struggle - to build this nation's Intercontinental Ballistic Missile. What stories can we tell? Blurry-eyed telescopes? Thousand dollar toilet seats? Even our space launch vehicles hearken only of that past great time. They are and seem destined to remain Gen. Schriever's ICBMs. I find it hard to swell with pride that the best new space-lifter idea is to refurbish old Minuteman and Poseidon ballistic missiles. Well - The pessimists are wrong. The legacy is continuing. This event is proof. To our technological parents: We've listened to your stories. We've caught your enthusiasm and can-do spirit. And we've learned from your achievements - and your mistakes. Let me honor one of you who was part of that history and the impetus behind this history - Max Hunter. You are one of the greatest engineers of the firts great age of space exploration. Your insight and discipline built the Thor ICBM - later incorporated into today's most successful launch vehicle - The Delta. You told us in the 60's that a new form of launch vehicle - a single stage reusable rocket - can and should be built. You advocated this idea tirelessly. It was elegantly simple, as are all great breakthroughs. You showed us how to build it. You convinced us it could be done. You are working by our side to weld its components into place. Most important - you reminded us of a prime engineering principle - undoubtably one you learned from the generation before you - the generation that built transcontinental aviation in the 1920's and 30's - build a little and test a little and Max, you passed all of this on to people like Pat Ladner who started this program for the SDI. Douglas Aircraft didn't start with a DC-10. They didn't even start with a DC-3. Our grandfathers built a little, tested a little - even sold a little and made a little money - before they moved on to the next step. They didn't take a decade or more before putting the first "rubber on the road." Max Hunter - you didn't take ten years to build Thor, and by God we're not going to take ten years to show that low cost, single stage, reusable aerospace transportation is real. We ended the cold war in a few short years. It took the same team here today but a few years to show through the Strategic Defense Initiative that the cold war must end. We - you and us - launched a series of satellites - The Delta experiments - in about a year apiece. This, more than anything else signaled our commitment to end the impasse between ourselves and the Soviet Union. Those who made the decisions on both sides have underscored the importance of our work in bringing about a new international relationship. But it is the same team which is now putting in place the framework for an aerospace expansion that is our legacy for the next generation. We will make space access routine and affordable. We built this magnificent flying machine in two years. This summer a true rocket ship will take off and land on earth for the first time. Then we can and surely will build in the next three years a reusable sub-orbital rocket. It will allow us to use space rapidly, affordably, and efficiently as no other nation can. And yes - we'll make a little money off it too! Then - and only then - we'll spend another three years to build a fully reusable single stage to orbit system. The DC-3 of space will be a reality! We may even be able to use some of the rocket propulsion breakthroughs of our former cold war adversaries. What a wonderful irony if this SDI product and Russian efforts to counter SDI merge to power mankind's next step to the stars! To be sure, we must guard against the temptations to leap to the final answer. Robert Goddard's first rockets weren't Saturn V's! If we succumb to the temptation to ask for just a few extra dollars and a few more years to jump immediately to a full orbital system - we will fail. Max Hunter and his colleagues showed the way. Three years and a cloud of dust - in our case rocket exhausts. There is no short-cut. If we expect to reshape the world again - we must do it one brick at a time. Minds on tasks at hand!
Does anyone know the details of the interface (5 wire din) for the IR remote sensor & (2 wire IR repeater) for the ADCOM GTP-500II preamp? The ADCOM part numbers are the XR-500II, SPM-500II, and IRA-500II. A cursory physical examination of the pre-amp connector indicates that the connector (5 pin din) may provide: (Viewed from connector front) | 5 1 (pin ?) +?v @ ???mA 4 2 (pin ?) +/-?v @ ???mA 3 (pin 3) Signal Ground (pin ?) Demodulated signal ?V-pp, ? polarity, ? mA drive (pin ?) Signal to drive repeater LED (drives through 150ohm resistor) ?V-pp I assume that the repeater connectors (mini-plugs) drive the IR repeater LED's directly. True? Can anyone fill in the ?'s. Thanks.
[reply to mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (Michael Covington)] The guy didn't sound too shy to me. He sounded like a jerk. I say ditch him for someone more knowledgeable and empathetic.
If you recall, a subject was raised some weeks ago that touched upon this. When someone claimed that guerillas were manifestations of popular sentiment, the topic arose:"When does a civilian stop becoming a civilian?". If he houses and shelters guerillas of his own free will, aiding them, has he violated his "civilian" status? But don't you see that the same statement can be made both ways? If Lebanon was interested in peace then it should accept the word of Israel that the attacks were the cause for war and disarming the Hizbollah will remove the cause for its continued occupancy. Afterall, Israel has already staged two parts of the withdrawal from areas it occupied in Lebanon during SLG. That is not exactly true. The Hizbollah and their affiliated groups have made several attempts to infiltrate the border of Israel. True, but the Syrians did allow (until at least 1984) guerillas to operate in the areas that were under their control, provided that those guerillas were attacking Israeli lines. The problem is that Syria is also not as stable a partner for long term peace as others in the area might be.
At one time there was speculation that the first spacewalk (Alexei Leonov ?) was a staged fake. Has any evidence to support or contradict this claim emerged ? Was this claim perhaps another fevered Cold War hallucination ?
Ditto,
Ok, I'll bite. How is this supposed to work?
Tom's right about this. It's only a grantable right if the granter has the will and the ability to stop anyone from taking it away from you. Never mind the legal status. Nick's right about this. It's always easier to obtain forgiveness than permission. Not many people remember that Britain's King George III expressly forbid his american subjects to cross the alleghany/appalachian mountains. Said subjects basically said, "Stop us if you can." He couldn't. That's how the USA started. Of course, that's also how the Bolivarian Republic started (ca. 1800-1820) in central america. It didn't have quite the staying power of the USA. I'm sure there are more examples of going far away and then ignoring authority, but none jump to mind right now. Or do as some whaling nations do: define whatever activities you want to carry out as "scientific research" which just coincidentally requires the recovery of megatonnes of minerals (or whatever), then go at it. Lute Keyser had just this sort of arrangement with Libya (I think) in the late '70's for his commercial space launch project (one of the very earliest). It was killed by Soviet propaganda about NATO cruise missiles in Africa, which made Libya renege on the arrangement.
A friend of mine has a trouble with her ears ringing. The ringing is so loud that she has great difficulty sleeping at night. She says that she hasn't had a normal night's sleep in about 6 months (she looks like it too :-(). This is making her depressed so her doctor has put her on anti-depressants. The ringing started rather suddenly about 6 months ago. She is quickly losing sleep, social life and sanity over this. Does anyone know of any treatments for this? Any experience? Coping mechanisms? Any opinions on the anti-depressant drugs?
Dear Netters I want to send EMG-signals from a running person to a computer. Each signal is 4KHz wide and there is up to 30 of them on each running person. The signal is only to be sent over a few hundred meters. It seems to me that the frequency intended for this use is about 150MHz and about 440MHz. To make the transmitters as light as possible I suppose it will be best the to send the signals in an analog form. As this application is rather specialized I do not expect to be able to buy the exact transmitter- units i need. On the other hand I imagine that I can buy the receiver somewhere. I need a multichannel (up to 30 channels) receiver or 30 complete receivers in some rack system where one can add as many receivers as needed in the particular case. DO ANYBODY KNOW IF THERE IS EXISTING SUCH RECEIVER SYSTEM ON THE MARKET?
Your doctor is right. It is best to do nothing, besides taking some pain medication initially. Some patients don't like this and expect, or demand, to have something done. In these cases some physicians will "tape" the patient (put a lot of heavy adhesive tape around the chest), or prescribe an elastic binder. All this does is make it harder to breath, but the patient doesn't feel cheated, because soemthing is being done about the problem. Either way, the end results are the same. ==================================
We are getting a memory fault and a core dump whenever we end a Motif session under Ultrix 4.3, running on a DEC 5000/240. An examintion of the core file leads us to believe it's from getcons. Does anyone know what this is all about? marc
Oh come on, Silly, all you have to do is cut a hole in your hood and put a tube there so you can get to the oil fill hole. What do you think all those big air intake things are for on those hot-rod cars? They're just for looks only...little does anyone know, they provide access to the oil-fill hole.
Can somebody tell me what all the letter spesifications on motorcycle models really mean. Example: What means the C, the B and the R in Honda CBR. - Or the V, S, G, L and P in Suzuki VS750GLP I wanna distribute this in our club magazine. I want lists of all types, but I already knows about Harley. Thanks in advance! Vidar --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vidar O. Solberg - NORWAY * ROCK HARD * RIDE FREE * "We are the proud, the few and the true Metallibashers!"
:> Surrender your arms. Soon enough, officers will be around to collect :> them. Resistance is useless. : :Don't tell me -- you're the "Borg Warner," right? HAAAAAAAAAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA. Hee, hee. <chuckle> This was absolutely fabulous. I nearly fell out of my chair laughing. Wonderful! Mr. Tavares, my hat is off to you again! Mike Ruff
Nevertheless, DWI is F*ckin serious. Hope you've got some brains now.
I don't think that's a problem. My face is quite oily too. I had a moderate acne problem for many years. I then found that if I vigorously scrub my face with a nail brush and soap (Irish Spring) twice a day the acne was not a problem. I can still leave a pretty health nose print on a mirror after 45 min (don't ask ;->) but acne is not a real problem anymore.
In pure speculation, I would guess cautions based on hazardous pre-launch ops would qualify. Something like "Caution: SRBs have just been armed."
In defense of the drivers, who are in the right lane. Here in the states, people simply do not expect when they are driving to be overtaken at a speed differential of 50+mph. I don't think this is because they are stupid (of course, there are exceptions), they are just programmed because of the 55mph limit. Do you (in the states) when you look in the rear-view ALWAYS calculate future positions of cars based on a 50+ speed differential. Dont get me wrong, I love to drive in the left lane fast but when I overtake cars who are on the right, I slow down a tad bit. If I were to rely on the judgement of the other car, to recognize the speed differential, I would be the stupid one.
C >Hi: C >I have a 486DX2-66MHz computer to use with an A/D board C >for data acquisition on an AT bus...I'm having problems. C >The AT bus runs at 12.5 MHz - correct? So there should C >be no bus speed conflict. But I read somewhere that the C >new 486DX2-66 MHz CPU runs on a 33 MHz bus - is that for C >the local bus or the AT bus also - if so then I have a problem. C >^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ C >When I run on non-turbo-mode the speed goes to 8 MHz and the C >A/D doesn't work. Please mail your views! Thanks. C >Vincent C >cyl5@musica.mcgill.ca C > The STANDARD AT bus (ISA) runs at 8MHz, not 12.5 MHz, but some non-stnadard ISA buses do have higher clock rates, but be careful, since some boards don't work with faster than standard rates. For instance, my 486 has adjustable AT bus speeds, and my PAS16 audio card chokes when I do AD data acquisition with a bus speed faster than 10MHz. The fact that non-turbo-mode speed A/D doesn't work is weird. You may have a motherboard with a hardware 'bug'. 33 MHz bus on the 486DX2 66 does refer to the local bus. FYI: the AT bus operates asynchronously, and is linked to the local bus via a 'bus interface', which is one function that your 'chipset'. -rdd --- . WinQwk 2.0b#0 . Unregistered Evaluation Copy * KMail 2.95d W-NET HQ, hal9k.ann-arbor.mi.us, +1 313 663 4173 or 3959
Here! Here! But any call for responsibility and accountability from police is invariably interpreted as being "soft on crime". Being "tough on crime" and building more prisons and seizing more property is the politically astute thing to do these days. And citizen complacency! Don't forget the politicians that write the laws that make it easy for the police agencies to become corrupt. The War on Some Drugs brought us this corruption and only an end to it (legalization) will stop the corruption.
Carrying a pistol, loaded or unloaded, in the glove compartment, is considered carrying a concealed weapon in Colorado and is illegal without a concealed weapons permit. Unless the law has been changed recently, carrying a weapon openly is legal in Colorado but concealing it is illegal. I read a newspaper account last year where police stopped a car on a traffic infraction and observed a .357 magnum revolver sitting on the seat. The driver could not be cited for possessing or carrying the weapon because it was not concealed. The article stated that if the gun had been discovered in the glove box, it would have been considered a crime.
k Guys, guys, (and gals), let's lay off Jason here. Though he stepped in it, he has been very good so far about admitting he doesn't know what he's talking about, and even more stunning is that he seems
What's the feeling about eating and riding? I went out riding this weekend, and got a little carried away with some pecan pie. The whole ride back I felt sluggish. I was certainly much more alert on the ride in. I'm sure others have the same feeling, but the strangest thing is that eating is usually the turnaround point of weekend rides. From now on, a little snack will do. I'd much rather have a get that full/sluggish feeling closer to home. -Paul
the fancy piggyback shocks on the 550 (and the 750, i think. i don't know about the zr1100) are very nice, 3-way adjustability. the forks are crappy, they dive like MAD. i had progressive springs installed and it made a huge difference. cheap fix, MUCH improvement.
that's okay, he's perfectly welcome to come to Scotland you know ;-)
As I understood it, MSG *is* natural. Isn't it found in tomatoes? Anyway, lots of people are terribly allergic to lots of natural things; peanuts, onions, tomatoes, milk, etc. Just because something is 'natural' doesn't mean it won't cause problems with some folks. As for how foods taste: If I'm not allergic to MSG and I like the taste of it, why shouldn't I use it? Saying I shouldn't use it is like saying I shouldn't eat spicy food because my neighbor has an ulcer. People have long modified the taste of food by additives, whether they be chiles, black pepper, salt, cream sauces, etc. All of these things cloud the flavor of the food. Why do we bother with them? How should food be tasted? Isn't it better left to the diner?
You'll have fun looking for the rear-end gears on an SHO--the Taurus is a front-wheel-drive vehicle... I went back and checked the article again; The SHO Wagon is quicker than the SHO automatic, but significantly slower than the REAL SHO. Why anyone would order an SHO with an automatic transmission is beyond me; if you can't handle a stick, you should stick with a regular Taurus and leave the SHO to real drivers. That is not to say that there aren't real drivers who can't use the stick (eg disabled persons), but they aren't in any position to use an SHO anyway. I would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic transmissions from all "performance-type" cars (like the 5.0l Mustangs, Camaros, and the like) we'd cut down on the number of accidents each year. Autos are fine for sedate little sedans, but they have no business in performance cars, IMHO. James
Bullshit. You've been in Iceland for the past 30 years. You told us so yourself. It had something to do with not wanting to suffer the fate of your mother, who has lived with Jews for a long time or somesuch. Sounded awful. Are you as concerned about peace and justice in Palestine (Jordan)? Let's say that Israel grants the PLO _EVERYTHING THEY EVER ASKED FOR_. That Israel goes back to the 1967 borders. What will the "Palestinean Arabs" in Tel-Aviv call themselves? The Palestineans in West Jerusalem? In Haifa? Will they still claim to be "occupied"? Or do you suggest that Israel expell or kill off any remaining Arabs, much as the Arabs did to their Jews? Indeed, there is much which is not symmetrical about the conflict in the M.E. And most of this lack of symmetry does NOT favor Israel.
Morphine or demerol is about the only effective way of stopping pain that severe. Obviously, she'll need a prescription to get such drugs. Can't she go to the county hospital or something? -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
I was having the same problems compiling X11R5 on a IPC sunos 4.1.3. If you compile with 'make -k World' it will not stop on the ld errors. As was stated in another post the clients with the errors still run correctly.
WHile we are on the subject of the shuttle software. what ever happened to the hypothesis that the shuttle flight software was a major factor in the loss of 51-L. to wit, that during the wind shear event, the Flight control software indicated a series of very violent engine movements that shocked and set upa harmonic resonance leading to an overstress of the struts.
Hi. I've looked in the FAQ and the O-Reilly books and was unable to find (an easy) means of finding out the state of state keys such as CapsLock and NumLock. I can certainly track the events inside of my window and set a boolean there, but what if CapsLock is pressed in another window? I looked at XGrabKey() and decided it was definitely NOT what I wanted to do. I could find no convenience function to tell me that information. My question is this: Is there a means of determining what the state of CapsLock and/or NumLock is? An even more pointed question: Is there an easy means of making an X keyboard act like a PC keyboard? ie, CapsLock is active, and the user presses shift-a, I'd like to get a lowercase 'a' instead of 'A'. Any input is greatly appreciated. Please respond via email. I will repost a summary of my findings.
Dumbest options? Well here in the UK, BMW offer a 'no-smokers' option... It just means they take the fag lighter out.... big deal.... BTW - I just bought a Honda CRX F1..... its neat... did consider an MR2 targa, MX5 (you guys call it Miata?).... but that CRX just one my heart with that body kit and 8-spokes....
I posted this to sci.psychology on April 3, and after seeing your post here on panice disorder thought it would be relevant. ----- My research indicates that two schools of thought exist. the literature promoting medication says it's the superior treatment. Not surprisingly, literature promoting cognitive therapy also claims to be superior. What are the facts? Early in my research I didn't have a bias towards either medication or cognitive therapy. I was interested in a treatment that worked. After reading journals published after 1986, the cognitive therapy camp claims a higher success rate (approx 80%), a lower drop-out rate, and no side effects associated with medication. Lars-Goran Ost published an excellent article titled "Applied Relaxation: Description of a coping technique and a review of controlled studies." This is from Behav. Res. Ther., vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 397-409, 1987. The article provides instructions on how to perform applied relaxation (AR). Briefly, you start with two 15 minute sessions daily, and progress in 8-12 weeks to performing 10-15 thirty second sessions daily. I'll snail mail this article to anyone interested (USA only please; International please pay for postage).
I gues it is Keesler. The others do not ring the bell but they might be involved as well. Sometime ago Keesler was here at Langley teaching a course on space debris and, if my memory does not fai,l I think there was even a reference to a book on the subject. C.O.Egalon@larc.nasa.gov
: >DUCATI3.UUE : >QUUNCD Ver. 1.4, by Theodore A. Kaldis. : >BEGIN--cut here--CUT HERE--Part 3 : >MG@NH)C1M+AV4)I;^**3NYR7,*(.H&"3V'!X12(&E+AFKIN0@APYT;C[#LI2T This GIF was GREAT!! I have it as the backdrop on my Apollo thingy and many people stop by and admire it. Of course I tell them that I did it myself.... It's far too much trouble to contact archive sites to get stuff like this, so if anybody else has any good GIFs, please, please don't hesitate to post them. Is the bra thing still going? -- Nick (the Idiot Biker) DoD 1069 Concise Oxford No Bras M'Lud.
The car might also need a front end alignment, particularly if you're describing wandering.
On Ted Koppel last night, the ubiquitous Australian woman claimed that Koresh trained the women (years ago) how to commit suicide by swallowing cyanide or by putting a gun in their mouth. With cyanide on hand, why choose to roast yourself? There are too many unanswered questions here. --
: I've started to look at some devices doing serial data transmission : over fairly decent distances in fairly noisy environments, and have : seen a variety of schemes for protecting the RS232 transceivers (and : the rest of the circuit) from transients on the serial lines. I'm : left wondering what is the best way of doing this? How necessary is : it? : [stuff deleted] : What is the wisdom on this out there? : : Ta, : : Martin. : : From what I know, protection is necessary, esp. if you plan to route the cables into an unknown environment (out of your control). Things like accidental shorts between the signal lines and power cables, or even lightning strikes are very likely and I don't think you like to see the sight of your computer going up in smoke! [Even ethernet cards are protected. I've looked at the one in my PC and the connector is protected by a gas discharge tube!] {But if you plan to use the serial cables for internal routings (i.e. in controlled environments), it should be reasonably safe not to have them.} Suggestion: look in the RS data book. They have several RS232 transceivers that have overvoltage protection. Among them include the LT1080, LT1081 and MAX250 and MAX251. The Maxims are suppose to be electrically isolated ones but still need opto-isolators to work (don't ask me why. I've never used them before. Another alternative is an RS232 surge protector. Two are listed in the RS catalogue. If you need additional info (i.e. stock nos.), just e-mail me.
Thanks again. One final question. The name Gehrels wasn't known to me before this thread came up, but the May issue of Scientific American has an article about the "Inconstant Cosmos", with a photo of Neil Gehrels, project scientist for NASA's Compton Gamma Ray Observatory. Same person? -- Mark Brader, SoftQuad Inc., Toronto "Information! ... We want information!" utzoo!sq!msb, msb@sq.com -- The Prisoner
fix the table in .../X11R5/mit/server/ddx/sun/ or use xmodmap(1). put stty pass8; setenv LC_CTYPE iso_8859_1; setenv LESSCHARSET latin1 in your .login. the first prevents the stripping of bit 7. the second sets the locale. the third makes less(1) show the character instead of the octal representation. rj
i read about the code you can put in to most applications so that the virtual desktop stuff in tvtwm doesn't confuse them (or is the application confusing the virtual-ness? [chicken & the egg?] but wanted to see if it has been applied to a version of xroach i never could quite get ssetroot to work either? any suggestions. luckily xv -root -quit does the trick for the most part also, i'ld be quite interested in hearing more about the icon region for each virtual window under tvtwm that i read a thread on last week here thanx, fish
]"Get the organization to act on it" is easy to say, but says little ]about what one really can and should do. What the organization ]actually will do is largely determined by the president and directors, ]as far as I can see. That's what makes it so important to vote in an ]election of officers. if I remember right, I heard that in the last election, only 18% of the members actually cast votes. I wonder if the current board and their friends and relatives make up 18% of the membership :-) :-) I certainly plan on staying with the club long enough to vote and to see the results. ]It does strike me that the BMWMOA is a lot less politically active (in ]the state and national arenas, not infighting) than other M/C ]organizations. Should we change this? Or just join the other groups ]that already are in politics? I wouldn't support the MOA becoming politically active in that sense. the AMA already knows how to do that and I'd rather see the MOA support the AMA in a manner that the *AMA* needs. I think that more could be accomplished from one strong front rather than two not neccessarily coordinated ones.
They are news because they are the exceptions. And the 'Islamic Holocaust' is much the topic of the day. The historical evidence proves that during the period of 1914 to 1920, the Armenian Government ordered, incited, assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people because of race, religion and national origin. Armenians perpetrated acts of sabotage, destroyed telephone cables, blew up bridges, blocked passes, set up ambushes, attacked security stations and small Turkish outposts behind the Ottoman Army lines on the one hand, and on the other ruthlessly attacked Turkish and Kurdish villages, slaughtering the Turkish population indiscriminately, women, children, old and young alike. Innocent Muslims were one by one cruelly bayonetted to death, or massacred with axes and swords, or else shut up in mosques or in schools and then burnt alive as can be seen below. Widespread Armenian massacres of innocent Muslims took place in regions of Van, Kars, Sivas, Erzurum, Bitlis, Erzincan, Mus, Diyarbakir and Maras. The Ottoman Army, while fighting to prevent the Russian invasion, also had to deal with Armenian genocide squads who cowardly hit from behind. The Armenian genocide of the Muslims spread to all parts of Eastern Anatolia. Starting from late 1914, Armenians committed widespread massacres and genocide in Eastern Anatolia, because the arena was left to the Armenians. Almost every Turkish town and village from Erzincan up to Azerbaidjan suffered large scale massacres and genocide by Armenians and the Turkish genocide has been documented by Armenian, Russian, American, British, Ottoman, German, Austrian and French journalists and officers who observed the first genocide of this century committed by the blood-thirsty Armenian genocide squads. The Ottoman Army, liberating Trabzon, Bayburt, Erzincan, Erzurum, Kars and other regions from the Russians, saw that the cities and their villages had been destroyed and burnt, people slaughtered, massacred. The massacres conducted by Armenians, which became a black stain for humanity, shocked and disgusted even the Russian, British, German, Austrian, French and American authorities. Almost every Ottoman document is related to Armenian massacres and cruelties. The inhuman treatment, cruelties, atrocities, genocide by Armenian genocide squads perpetrated against innocent Moslem Turkish and Kurdish people, are sufficiently reflected in historical documents. Even today over seventy-five years later, the terrifying screams of the victims of these cruelties can be heard. Source: Documents: Volume I (1919). "Document No: 76," Archive No: 1/2, Cabin No: 109, Drawer No: 3, File No: 346, Section No: 427(1385), Contents No: 3, 52-53. (To Lt. Colonel Seyfi, General Headquarters, Second Section, Istanbul - Dr. Stephan Eshnanie) 'Neues Wiener Tagblatt' - Vienna, 'Pester Lloyd' 'Local Anzliger' - Berlin, 'Algemeen Handelsblat' - Amsterdam, 'Vakit' - Istanbul. "I have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of Russians and Armenians from Turkish territories through Armenia. Although two months have elapsed since the clearing of the territories of Armenian gangs, I have been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the Armenians at almost every step. All the villages from Trabzon to Erzincan and from Erzincan to Erzurum are destroyed. Corpses of Turks brutally and cruelly slain are everywhere. According to accounts by those who were able to save their lives by escaping to mountains, the first horrible and fearful events begun when the Russian forces evacuated the places which were then taken over by Armenian gangs. The Russians usually treated the people well, but the people feared the intervention of the Armenians. Once these places had been taken over by the Armenians, however, the massacres begun. They clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called the Armenian and Kurdish land from the Turks and thus, solve the nationality problem. Today I had the opportunity to meet Austrian and German soldiers who had escaped from Russian prison camps and come from Kars and Alexander Paul (Gumru-Leninakan)...Russian officers tried to save the Turks and there were clashes between Russian officers and Armenian gangs. I am now in Erzurum, and what I see is terrible. Almost the whole city is destroyed. The smell of the corpses still fills the air. Although there are speculations that Armenian gangs murdered Austrian and German prisoners as well, I could not get the supporting evidence in this regard, but there is proof of murdering of Turkish prisoners of war." Dr. Stephan Eshnanie Serdar Argic
The sightings were apparently spurious. There is no planet inside of the orbit of Mercury. The idea of Vulcan came from the differences between Mercury's observed perihelion precession and the value it should have had according to Newtonian physics. Leverrier made an extensive set of observations and calculations during the mid 19th century, and Simon Newcombe later improved on the observations and re-calculated using Leverrier's system of equations. Now Leverrier was one of the co-discoverers of Neptune and since he had predicted its existence based on anomalies in the orbit of Uranus his inclination was to believe the same sort of thing was afoot with Mercury. But alas, 'twere not so. Mercury's perihelion precesses at the rate it does because the space where it resides near the sun is significantly curved due to the sun's mass. This explanation had to wait until 1915 and Albert Einstein's synthesis of his earlier theory of the electrodynamics of moving bodies (commonly called Special Relativity) with Reimanian geometry. The result was the General Theory of Relativity, and one of it's most noteworthy strengths is that it accounts for the precession of Mercury's perihelion almost exactly. (Exactly if you use Newcomb's numbers rather than Leverrier's.) Of course not everybody believes Einstein, and that's fine. But subsequent efforts to find any planets closer to the sun than Mercury using radar have been fruitless. -Bill Gawne "Forgive him, he is a barbarian, who thinks the customs of his tribe are the laws of the universe." - G. J. Caesar
It's worse than that -- there *is* no such thing as a double-blind study on the effects of MSG, by virtue of the fact that MSG changes the taste of food in a characteristic way that is detectable by the subject and that cannot be duplicated by a placebo. Common! You can easily disguise to flavor of MSG by putting it in a capsule. Then, the study becomes a double blind of MSG capsules against control capsules (containing exactly the same contents minus the MSG). --
Hi Brad, I have two comments: Regarding your hope that the "occupation will end... belive that stiff resistance..etc. - how about an untried approach, i.e., peace and cooperation. I can't help but wonder what would happen if all violence against Israelis stopped. Hopefully, violence against Arabs would stop at the same time. If a state of non-violence could be maintained, perhaps a state of cooperation could be achieved, i.e., greater economic opportunities for both peoples living in the "territories". Of course, given the current leadership of Israel, your way may work also - but if that leadership changes, e.g., to someone with Ariel Sharon's mentality, then I would predict a considerable loss of life, i.e., no winners. Secondly, regarding your comment about the U.S. troops responding to "stiff resistance" - the analogy is not quite valid. The U.S. troops could get out of the neighborhood altogether. The Israelis could not. Just my $.02 worth, no offense intended. Respectfully,
I have not seen but I guess would not liked it - to me he represents the worst of both American and Israeli politics - but this is a matter of taste. As for the famous confession, it is currently believed (at least by some people) that all this adultry affair was just invented by him in order to impress the Likkud voters (and poor jealous Hamazah) and appear as a "real" man.
This may be a safety issue; the CSA is more paranoid in certain areas than UL and such. Two caps in series means that you don't have a short if one of them shorts.
You're assuming that "go solar" = "photovoltaic". Solar dynamic power (turbo-alternators) doesn't have this problem. It also has rather less air drag due to its higher efficiency, which is a non-trivial win for big solar plants at low altitude. Now, you might have to replace the *rest* of the electronics fairly often, unless you invest substantial amounts of mass in shielding. References? Such treaties have been *proposed*, but as far as I know, none of them has ever been negotiated or signed.
Or read fixes 9, 10, and 11 to the MIT distribution. This is a known problem - just apply those fixes and set SunPost411FCSLd to YES and OSTeenyVersion in mit/config/sun.cf to 3. In fix-09: In fix-10: In fix-11:
Having read the posted long article by JPFO, I have some observations: 1. This article does NOT claim that the GCA of 1968 is a "verbatim translation" of a Nazi law. What it says is that in another place -- the book they're talking about -- they compare the two things section by section. The implication is that the similarities are devastating. In the next sentence, they talk about how in that book they reproduce the German text of the Nazi law, together with its translation. Not surprisingly, a reader could easily conflate these two things into a single idea: that the American GCA is a literal translation of the Nazi law; and sure enough, that's what the whole thing has mutated into, urban-folklore style. 2. The article goes to great pains to establish that Senator Dodd had a copy of the Nazi law, either from his time on the Nurnberg prosecution team or later. This fact is considered highly incriminating, but I don't understand why. The author repeats several times that he is simply unable to imagine how anyone could come into possession of the original text; and yet in a paragraph towards the end, he explains it perfectly: "If Dodd got his copy of the original German text of the Nazi Weapons Law during his time at Nurnberg, it likely was part of a collection of documents, for example, issues of the Reichsgesetzblatt [the German law registry]." Bingo. Exactly. Dodd had a *book*, with a series of Nazi laws in it, including the one under discussion. All of the stuff about "Why would a U.S. congressman have a copy of a Nazi law?" melts away, by the author's admission. He then continues: "But if he acquired the original German text of the Nazi Weapons Law after his service at Nurnberg, he must have done so for a very specific reason..." But there's absolutely no reason to think that this is the case. In fact, as a "senior member of the U.S. team that helped to prosecute Nazi war criminals", it seems to me that he would have *had* to have a copy. All arguments about whether the Nazi Weapon Law is really of historical interest (as it obviously is, certainly according to the author here), or whether Dodd personally prosecuted the Interior Minister who signed it, can be put aside as red herrings. 3. Having established that Dodd owned a copy of the original German text, the JPFO article then tries to draw sinister implications from the fact that he asked to have it translated. The problem is, in the context of the charge levelled at Dodd, these two things work *against* each other. People ask to have things translated when they *don't know what they mean*. If Dodd took it upon himself to preserve the Nazi law with idea of someday introducing it into American law, surely by 1968 he would have know what it *meant*, wouldn't he? Anyway, this precise charge -- the main one that I questioned in an earlier posting -- is just silly. Why would Dodd need the exact translation for this purpose? Is the idea that the gun controllers, despite being presumably bent on disarming the populace with the goal of eventually destroying all civil liberties, needed a crib sheet? Didn't they have any idea how to do it on their own? Once again, the author provides a perfectly acceptable answer to his own question: "Dodd may have offered his copy of the Nazi Weapons Law to show that the specific proposal did not resemble anything in the Nazi law." In fact, since the law and its translation *were* entered into the Congressional Record, under the heading of documents "concerning the history of Nazism and gun confiscation", Dodd's motivation isn't a mystery: he asked for the translation in order to put it in the CR. 4. Even this article makes it clear that the part of the Nazi law that was added *by* the Nazi regime is only a small part of that law. Registration of guns, for instance, was begun in 1928, and thus NOT a "Nazi-inspired" idea. The parts of the Nazi law that parallel the 1968 GCA include handgun control of some sort, and the identification of certain weapons as sporting weapons. The JPFO then goes on to list other parts of the Nazi law, forbidding ownership of weapons by Jews; of course, there are no such provisions in the American GCA. Nevertheless, in a rhetorical move guaranteed to muddy the waters, immediately after the discussion of the anti-Jewish parts of the law, the JPFO article continues, "Given the parallels between the Nazi Weapons Law and the GCA'68..." -- so as to get maximum emotional mileage out of that aspect of the law.
I told a newbie friend of mine, who was having trouble from the complicated explanations of his rider course, to think of using the handlebars to lean, not to turn. Push the right handlebar "down" (or pull left up or whatever) to lean right. It worked for him, he stopped steering with his tuchus.
Newsgroups: sci.med Path: news.larc.nasa.gov!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!think.com!hsdndev!spdcc!dyer From: dyer@spdcc.com (Steve Dyer) Organization: S.P. Dyer Computer Consulting, Cambridge MA References: <20996.3049.uupcb@factory.com> <79727@cup.portal.com> Date: Sat, 17 Apr 1993 18:43:05 GMT Lines: 18 >I remember hearing a few years back about a new therapy for hyperactivity >which involved aggressively eliminating artificial coloring and flavoring >from the diet. The theory -- which was backed up by interesting anecdotal >results -- is that certain people are just way more sensitive to these >chemicals than other people. I don't remember any connection being made >with seizures, but it certainly couldn't hurt to try an all-natural diet. Yeah, the "Feingold Diet" is a load of crap. Children diagnosed with ADD who are placed on this diet show no improvement in their intellectual and social skills, which in fact continue to decline. Of course, the parents who are enthusiastic about this approach lap it up at the expense of their children's development. So much for the value of "interesting anecdotal results". People will believe anything if they want to. -- Steve Dyer dyer@ursa-major.spdcc.com aka {ima,harvard,rayssd,linus,m2c}!spdcc!dyer Thanks for all the interest in this problem of mine. I don't think it is a reaction to sugar or junk food per se since Kathryn has never shown any signs of hyperactivity or changes in behavior in response to food. She has always been very calm and dare I say, a neat, smart kid. The fact that this happened while eating two sugar coated cereals made by Kellog's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to something in the coating or the cereals. Of the four of us in our immediate family, Kathryn shows the least signs of the hay fever, running nose, itchy eyes, etc. but we have a lot of allergies in our family history including some weird food allergies - nuts, mushrooms. Anyway, our next trip is to an endocrinologist to check out the body chemistry. But so far, no more sugar coated cereals and no more seizures either. Every day that goes by without one makes me heave a sigh of relief. Thanks again.
Ack, what a public relations nightmare just begging happen. "Gun Lobby pays vigilanties." "NRA to shell out dough to gunfighters."
: What is a general rule of thumb for sobriety and cycling? Couple hours after : you "feel" sober? What? Or should I just work with "If I drink tonight, I : don't ride until tomorrow"? It depends on how badly you want to live. The FAA says "eight hours, bottle to throttle" for pilots but recommends twenty-four hours. The FARs specify a blood/alcohol level of 0.4 as legally drunk, I think, which is more than twice as strict as DWI minimums. BTW, alcohol metabolizes in your blood at a fixed rate -- one beer/hour will keep your blood/alcohol level barely street-legal. Coffee, hyperventilation and other bar tricks won't speed it up nor will they fool Mr. Ranger.
:) No...I was one of the lucky ones. Very little acne as a teenager. I didn't have any luck with clearasil. Even though my skin gets oily it really only gets miserable pimples when it's dry. Frequent lukewarm water rinses on the face might help. Getting the scalp thing under control might help (that could be as simple as submerging under the bathwater till it's softened and washing it out). Taking a one a day vitamin/mineral might help. I've heard iodine causes trouble and that it is used in fast food restaurants to sterilize equipment which might be where the belief that greasy foods cause acne came from. I notice grease on my face, not immediately removed will cause acne (even from eating meat). Keeping hair rinse, mousse, dip, and spray off the face will help. Warm water bath soaks or cloths on the face to soften the oil in the pores will help prevent blackheads. Body oil is hydrophilic, loves water and it softens and washes off when it has a chance. That's why hair goes limp with oilyness. Becoming convinced that the best thing to do with a whitehead is leave it alone will save him days of pimple misery. Any prying of black or whiteheads can cause infections, the red spots of pimples. Usually a whitehead will break naturally in a day and there won't be an infection afterwards. Tell him that it's normal to have some pimples but the cosmetic industry makes it's money off of selling people on the idea that they are an incredible defect to be hidden at any cost (even that of causing more pimples).
I had a GE Emerson 13" color TV for about 3 years and one fine day, while we were watching something (I doubt if the program was the cause), we heard a mild explosion. Our screen went blank but there was sound, so we thought, 'oh we have special effects on the program'. But soon the sound stopped and smoke started to appear at the back of the TV. The brilliant EEs we are, we unplugged the TV and called customer service only to be thrown around by please hold, I will transfer u to blah blah.. Finally we abandoned the idea of trying to fix the TV and got a new one (we wanted a bigger one too!). After all the story, what I wanted to know is: Is my problem an isolated incident or a common one? (I recall reading about Russian TVs exploding, but not here, in the US). Why would the picture tube explode or even smoke? I still have the left over TV set, I might dig into it this summer. Any idea where I can get parts for these things? (probably will cost more than TV).
Many X servers supporting graphics accelerators do not allow the creation of pixmaps exeeding the size of the screen. One workaround is to create several smaller pixmaps and add the results.
on wednesday morning, another driver decided to illegally turn left in front of me, doing great damage to my car (Honda Civic). i have yet to pay off the car, and the body shop says the insurance company wants to total the car. i haven't been able to get in touch with the person handling my claim, so i checked on some things: 1) my payout is $3700.00 2) Blue Book retail is $5650.00 3) loan value is $4450.00 4) trade-in value is $4000.00 could anyone give me any advice on what i should/could do if the insurance company does not give me a reasonable amount for the loss of the car. thanks, james baker
Thanks for the resposes as they were all good ideas and I am looking at using a couple of the ideas. I recieved in the mail today the spec sheets on the mil. spec version of Exar's XR-2240 timer/counter chip. It is stable down to -50 C and sucks very little power. They show an application for a ultra-long time delay (up to several years depending on the RC time constant). In this application, they have two of them cascaded together. The reset and trigger pins of both chips are tied together and the timebase of the second chip is disabled. In this configuration, the output is high when the system is reset. When triggered, the output goes low and stays that way for a total of 65,536 x the timing cycle of the first chip. The total timing cycle of the two chips can be programmed from To = 256 x R x C to 65,536 x R x C in 256 steps by selecting any combination of the counter outputs to the timer output. The beauty of it is, the timebase chip would only have to have a 100uF timing cap and a 391K resistor for 39.1 seconds per timing cycle. So I can get a maximum of 2,562,457.6 seconds between timing cycles (39.1 x 65,536 or about 29 days !) Of course, that's much more than I need (14 days). But the counter allows for 256 binary steps that can be selected for the output for the 'pellet puker'. After the first 14 days and it trips, it would reset its self for the next 14 day timing cycle and so forth. Power is still a problem though. A few ideas that you suggested was to bury the electronics in a hole dug in the snow (as an insulator) and put the pellet puker up on a tower above the estimated snow fall with a solar panel on it to keep a charge on a lithium battery pack. I like that idea ;-) This thing has to work for at least six weeks for three samples and the gas valves are 12 volts to spit the pellets out onto the snow. Anyway, I ordered the XR-2240's to see what I can do with them. Should be interesting (as long as I'm not the one that has to go digging up the pellets in the middle of Antartica freezing my buns off ;-) Thanks again everyone...
Yeah. I don't use the clutch all the time either. I've done it with Fords, BMW, Datsun, and Chevy and it works fine. I can't think of any reason that it would damage the tranny. Essentially you are just doing what the synchros do anyhow - match the engine speed with the tranny speed and slip it into gear. Sounds about right. I usually slip it out during throttle-down and then blip the throttle and wait until it feels like things are right (usually about a second) and then slip it into gear... -- -------------------------------------------------------------------- Jon "You obviously don't know who you're dealing with" Gross jong@halcyon.com
The National Air & Space Museum has both the prototype and the film. When I was there, some years ago, they had the prototype on display and the film continuously repeating.
Can someone please remind me who said a well known quotation? He was sitting atop a rocket awaiting liftoff and afterwards, in answer to the question what he had been thinking about, said (approximately) "half a million components, each has to work perfectly, each supplied by the lowest bidder....." Attribution and correction of the quote would be much appreciated.
Just had the opportunity to watch this flick on A&E -- some 15 years since I saw it last. I was very interested in the technology demonstrated in this film for handling infectious diseases (and similar toxic substances). Clearly they "faked" a lot of the computer & robotic technology; certainly at the time it was made most of that was science fiction itself, let alone the idea of a "space germ". Quite coincidentally [actually this is what got me wanted to see the movie again] I watched a segment on the otherwise awful _How'd They Do That?_ dealing with a disease researcher at the CDC's top lab. There was description of the elaborate security measures taken so that building will never be "cracked" so to speak by man or nature (short of deliberate bombing from the air, perhaps). And the researchers used "spacesuits" similar to that in the film. I'm curious what people think about this film -- short of "silly". Is such a facility technically feasible today? As far as the plot, and the crystalline structure that is not Life As We Know It, that's a whole 'nother argument for rec.arts.sf.tech or something.
You're assuming that the low-cost delivery system has to be a separate project. But why? If you are spending hundreds of millions of dollars in hopes of winning a billion-dollar prize, it is *cheaper* to develop your own launch system, charging its entire development cost against your contest entry, than to try to do it with existing launchers. No other demand is necessary. You're assuming that it's going to take a decade to build a new launch system. But why? The Saturn V took less than six years, depending on exactly when you date its start. Pegasus took about three from project start to first flight. Before SDIO chickened out on orbital development, the target date for an orbital DC-Y flight was 1996. If you really want speed, consider that the first prototypes of the Thor missile (still in service as the core of the Delta launcher) shipped to the USAF less than 18 months after the development go-ahead.
export.lcs.mit.edu:/pub/sunkbd..930314.tar.Z /MaF
/ hpcc01:rec.motorcycles / cookson@mbunix.mitre.org (Cookson) / 2:02 pm Apr 2, 1993 / All right people, this inane bug wibbling is just getting to much. I propose we split off a new group. rec.motorcycles.nutrition to deal with the what to do with squashed bugs thread. -- ---------- What?!?!? Haven't you heard about cross-posting??!?!? Leave it intact and simply ignore the basenotes and/or responses which have zero interest for a being of your stature and discriminating taste. ;-) Yesterday, while on Lonoak Rd, a wasp hit my faceshield with just enough force to glue it between my eyes, but not enough to kill it as the legs were frantically wiggling away and I found that rather, shall we say, distracting. I flicked it off and wiped off the residue at the next gas stop in Greenfield. :-) BTW, Lonoak Rd leads from #25 into King City although we took Metz from KC into Greenfield. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Graeme Harrison, Hewlett-Packard Co., Communications Components Division, 350 W Trimble Rd, San Jose, CA 95131 (gharriso@hpcc01.corp.hp.com) DoD#649
...the question is: for how long? Even if the FBI had done nothing, I guess the BDs would have committed suicide, but maybe not until hunger and thirst gave them the choice between sucide or surrender. The BDs was warned in beforehand about the FBI action. They HAD the chance to surrender and get a fair trial. No matter who started the fire, the BDs were responsible for 80+ peole dying. No one else.
To which Mark Ira Kaufman responds: Mark, Were you one of the millions of Americans cheering the slaughter of Iraqi civilians by US forces in 1991? Your comment could also apply to all of them. (By the way, I do not applaud the killing of _any_ human being, including prisoners sentenced to death by our illustrious justice department) Peace. -marc
Subject: Re: NETTEKI BUTUN VATANSEVERLERE DUYURU.... ca (Suat Kiniklioglu) [a.k.a. Kubilay Kultigin] continues... [KK] BUTUN NETTEKI ARKADASLARA DUYURU.... [KK] [KK] (SIYASI PLATFORMUN HANGI "TARAFINDA OLURSANIZ OLUN") [KK] [KK] BUGUNLERDE BU NETTE OLSUN, TALK.POLITICS.MIDEAST VE TALK.POLITICS. [KK] SOVIET'TE OLSUN OLAGAN DAN FAZLA VE "ETKIN" ERMENI VE YUNAN [KK] POSTINGLERI YAZILMAKTADIR. BU YAZILARIN COGU GUNCEL KARABAG [KK] KIBRIS VE BOSNA KONULARINDA YOGUNLASMAKTADIR. BURADAN HAREKETLE [KK] "HEPIMIZIN" BIRAZ DAHA AKTIF OLMASI VE "USENMEYIP" CEVAP YAZMASI [KK] OLDUKCA FAYDALI OLACAKTIR. [KK] [KK] EVET, HERKESIN ISI GUCU VAR...AKADEMIK YILIN YOGUN BIR DONEMI [KK] FAKAT MEYDANI BOS BIRAKMAMANIN VE ULKEMIZIN CIKARLARINI "IDEOLOJIK [KK] PLATFORMDA" GOZETMENIN DE SORUMLULUGU VAR... [KK] [KK] YARINLARIN CAGDAS VE GUCLU TURKIYESI'NI HEP BERABER KURMAK UMUDUYLA, [KK] [KK] SAYGILAR, [KK] Kubilay Kultigin [KK] ***** VATAN SEVGISI RUHLARI KIRDEN KURTARAN EN KUVVETLI RUZGARDIR ***** In translation, as a public service: Subject: AN ANNOUNCEMENT TO ALL PATRIOTS ON THE NET... AN ANNONCEMENT TO ALL FRIENDS ON THE NET... (REGARDLESS OF "WHEREVER YOU STAND" ON THE POLITICAL SPECTRUM) IN RECENT DAYS ARMENIAN AND GREEK POSTINGS OF THAN THE USUAL IN NUMBER AND "EFFECTIVENESS" ARE BEING WRITTEN BOTH ON THIS NET AND THE TALK.POLITICS. MIDEAST AND TALK.POLITICS.SOVIET. MOST OF THESE WRITINGS CONCENTRATE ON THE SUBJECTS OF KARABAGH, CYPRUS AND BOSNIA. DUE TO THIS FACT, IT IS QUITE USEFUL FOR "US ALL" BE MORE ACTIVE AND "NOT FEEL RELUCTANT" TO RESPOND. YES, EVERYBODY HAS HIS/HER OCCUPATION...IT IS A BUSY PERIOD IN THE ACADEMIC YEAR. HOWEVER, [WE MUST] HAVE A RESPONSIBILTY NOT TO LEAVE THE FORUM EMPTY AND WATCH THE INTERESTS OF OUR COUNTRY ON THE "IDEOLOGICAL LEVEL"... IN THE HOPE OF BUILDING TOGETHER A MODERN AND POWERFUL TURKEY OF TOMORRROW. REGARDS, Kubilay Kultigin ***** THE LOVE OF THE FATHERLAND IS THE STRONGEST OF ALL WINDS CLEANSING FILTH OFF SOULS *****
/ iftccu:talk.politics.guns / steiner@jupiter.ca.boeing.com / 12:07 am Apr 15, 1993 / Also, you need to consider our legal system. Since any of these things CAN be lethal, you are going to have a hard time explaining why you applied lethal force when you DIDN'T think it was necessary. (If you thought lethal force was necessary, you wouldn't be using rubber bullets, would you?) Ouch. If you are justified in shooting them at all, you are justified in using the best self defense ammunition you can get your hands on. It might actually IMPROVE the legal outcome. This is why hollow points hold up in court. They are safer for you, safer for innocent by standers, (don't as a rule go through the perp) and actually safer for the perp. If you are using military hard ball, you may have to shoot him 'MANY' times, where one or two hollow points might stop him and do the job. As a rule, the fewer wound channels, the better the chance for his surviving the incident.
I am involved with a Michigan company that has an application requiring wireless data transfer. If you have expertise or information that may assist us in this project, please contact me (INTERNET: leblanc@cvm.msu. edu).
Yeah, make darn sure you cover all the glass, so the driver can't reasonably expect to be able to drive with the things on the car.
[Also posted in misc.forsale.wanted,misc.wanted,ne.wanted,ny.wanted,nj.wanted] WANTED: Optical Shaft Encoders Quantity 2 Single-ended Incremental Needed to encode the movements of a 16" Cassegrain telescope. The telescope is in the observatory of the Univ. of Mass. at Boston. The project is being managed by Mr. George Tucker, a graduate student at UMB. Please call him, or email/call me, if you have one or two of the specified type of encoder. Of course, due to our low funding level we are looking for a price that is sufficiently lower than that given for new encoders. :) George Tucker 617-965-3408 ME:
Wasn't there a "plain" flavor too? They looked more like some kind of extruded industrial product than food -- perfectly smooth cylinders with perfectly smooth ends. Kinda scary. An other post described it as like a "microwaved Tootsie Roll" -- which captures the texture pretty well. As for taste, they were like candy, only not very sweet -- does that make sense? I recall liking them for their texture, not taste. I guess I have well developed texture buds. It was obligatory to eat a few while watching "Captain Scarlet". Does anybody else remember _that_, as long as we're off the topic of space? Shag --
On the back might be tricky, but here in Boulder, there is a guy that can always be seen with his Golden Retriever in the sidecar. Of course, the dog is always wearing WWII style goggles (no joke)
So how much would it cost as a private venture, assuming you could talk the U.S. government into leasing you a couple of pads in Florida?
Better idea for use of NASA Shuttle Astronauts and Crew is have them be found lost in space after a accident with a worm hole or other space/time glitch.. Maybe age Jemison a few years (makeup and such) and have her as the only survivour of a failed shuttle mission that got lost.. Heh of late, they way they have been having shuttle problems in the media, anything can happen.. Imagine a Astronaut/Crew member to find themselves in the 24th Century as the object of interest of an alien civilization, maybe rescued or helped by the ST Enterprise... I know Vegr and such was okay, but this could be better..
TRIAD, the first drag-free satellite, was designed and built by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory and launched 2 Sept 1972. The satellite was in three sections separated by two booms. The central section housed the DISCOS Disturbance Compensation System, which consisted of a proof mass of special non-magnetic alloy housed within a spherical cavity. The proof mass flew a true gravitational orbit, free from drag and radiation pressure. Teflon microthrusters kept the body of the satellite centered around the proof mass, thereby flying the entire satellite drag free. TRIAD was one of the APL-designed Navy Navigation Satellites. The 2nd-generation operational navigation satellites flying today (NOVA) use a single-axis version of DISCOS. TRIAD was also the sixth APL satellite to be powered by an RTG (APL flew the first nuclear power supply in space, in 1961). Further info on TRIAD, DISCOS, etc. can be found in "Spacecraft Design Innovations in the APL Space Department," Johns Hopkins APL Technical Digest, Vol. 13, No. 1 (1992).
A colleague has a bizarre font problem on his new MIPS workstation. When he first logs on (via xdm), he has a single xterm window appear with the mwm window manager running. In this configuration, X windows applications (particularly xdvi) work fine. However, if he opens up a second xterm application, suddenly xdvi cannot start in either window, giving the error: Unable to load ISO 8859-1 font. The only difference between the two xterm windows is that the initial one references a different name in the Xsession file, with prettier colours and other slight changes. Further investigation shows that only opening a default xterm causes this behaviour, and more significant, ALL X applications can no longer load any fonts if they are invoked from the command line in either window. If I start the xterm with a different font (using the -fn option), no problems. It would seem that the default xterm is loading a font which somehow causes the server to lose all of its fonts. Note: xlsfonts in either window shows all of the fonts available, so there doesn't appear to be a problem in the font directories/hash-tables. Other than rewriting the XTerm app-defaults file to use a different font and hope for the best, does anyone have any ideas?
: Experiment: From a Sun openwindows 4.1.3 xterm window log into a : Solaris 2.x machine using rlogin; now do an "ls" and get the first : character of each line display in the last column of the display : with the rest of the line wrapped to the next line of the display. : Log out and the condition persists. Check stty all, try reset : with no effect. The condition happens when the TAB is not set to 8 spaces, set and then check out.
No, the 6551A is able to operate in a 2 MHz system, the 6551 can only take 1 MHz without problems. If you see a 8551 made by MOS or CSG, take it, its a 6551A. I know no fixed version of the 6551. There are different possibilities to work around this bug. The easiest is to tie _CTS to GND and use _DSR or _DCD as _CTS. It should be easy to fix the software, _DSR is bit 6 and DCD ist bit 5 of the Status Register (Read 6551 with RS1 = low and RS0 = high). Using the _CTS-line can lead into big trouble. The 6551 _instantly_ stops transmission if _CTS goes high. This means, that you may get only a half byte... Gerrit
The FDA, I believe. Rules say no blood or blood products donations from anyone who has been in a malarial area for 3 years. I was a platelet donor until my Thailand trip and my blood bank was very disappointed to find out they couldn't use me for 3 years. Not necessarily. The same rules may not apply to organ donation as to blood donation. In fact, I'm sure they don't. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Would anyone out there in DoDland be able to help me out in giving me a contact to purchase a pair of military air-borne combat boots (9 1/2 D in size). These boots (so I have read here on rec.moto) are calf height boots that use only velcro for enclosure. I have phoned around and nobody seems to carry such an item. I admit I have not gone into the deepest bowels of NYC yet for the search but I have made some calls to several of the bigger army/navy type stores with no luck. Anyone out there know of a place that does carry such an item as well as does mail order? Any help would be appreciated.
------------- cut here ----------------- University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona Suggested Reading Tan SL, Royston P, Campbell S, Jacobs HS, Betts J, Mason B, Edwards RG (1992). Cumulative conception and Livebirth rates after in-vitro fertilization. Lancet 339:1390-1394. For further information, call: Physicians' Resource Line 1-800-328-5868 in Tucson: 694-5868 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 28 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Articles :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: LOW LEVELS OF AIRBORNE PARTICLES LINKED TO SERIOUS ASTHMA ATTACKS American Lung Association A new study published by the American Lung Association has shown that surprisingly low concentrations of airborne particles can send people with asthma rushing to emergency rooms for treatment. The Seattle-based study showed that roughly one in eight emergency visits for asthma in that city was linked to exposure to particulate air pollution. The actual exposure levels recorded in the study were far below those deemed unsafe under federal air quality laws. "People with asthma have inflamed airways, and airborne particles tend to exacerbate that inflammation," said Joel Schwartz, Ph.D., of the Environmental Protection Agency, who was the lead author of the study. "When people are on the threshold of having, a serious asthma attack, particles can push them over the edge." The Seattle Study correlated 13 months of asthma emergency room visits with daily levels of PM,,,. or particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 10 microns or less. These finer particles are considered hazardous because they are small enough penetrate into the lung. Cities are considered out of compliance with clean air laws if the 24-hour average concentration of PM10 exceeds 150 micrograms per cubic millimeter of air. In Seattle however, a link between fine particles and asthma was found at levels as low as 30 micrograms. The authors concluded that for every 30 microgram increase in the four-day average of PM10, the odds of someone with asthma needing emergency treatment increased by 12 percent. The findings were published in the April American Review of Respiratory Disease, an official journal of the American Thoracic Society, the Lung Association's medical section. The study is the latest in a series of recent reports to suggest that particulate matter is a greatly under appreciated health threat. A 1992 study by Dr. Schwartz and Douglas Dockery, Ph.D., of Harvard found that particles may be causing roughly 60,000 premature deaths each year in the United States. Other studies have linked particulate matter to increased respiratory symptoms and bronchitis in children. "Government officials and the media are still very focused on ozone," says Dr. Schwartz. "But more and more research is showing that particles are bad actors as well." One problem in setting, standards for particulate air pollution is that PMIO is difficult to study. Unlike other regulated pollutants such as ozone and carbon monoxide, particulate matter is a complex and varying mixture of substances, including carbon, hydrocarbons, dust, and HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 29 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 acid aerosols. "Researchers can't Put people in exposure chambers to study the effects of particulate air pollution," says Dr. Schwartz. "We have no way of duplicating the typical urban mix of particles. " Consequently, most of what is known about particulates has been learned through population-based research like the Seattle study. Given that the EPA's current priority is to review the ozone and sulfur dioxide standards, the agency is unlikely to reexamine the PM10 standard any time soon. Until changes are made, there appears to be little people with asthma can do to protect themselves from airborne particles. "In some areas, you can get reports on air quality, but the reports only cover the pollutant that is closest to violating its standard, and that's rarely particulate matter," says Dr. Schwartz. "However, PM10 doesn't have to be near its violation range to be unhealthy." HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 30 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NIH Consensus Development Conference on Melanoma The National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Conference on Diagnosis and Treatment of Early Melanoma brought together experts in dermatology, pathology, epidemiology, public education, surveillance techniques, and potential new technologies as well as other health care professionals and the public to address (1) the clinical and histological characteristics of early melanoma; (2) the appropriate diagnosis, management, and followup of patients with early melanoma; (3) the role of dysplastic nevi and their significance; and (4) the role of education and screening in preventing melanoma morbidity and mortality. Following 2 days of presentations by experts and discussion by the audience, a consensus panel weighed the scientific evidence and prepared their consensus statement. Among their findings, the panel recommended that (1) melanoma in situ is a distinct entity effectively treated surgically with 0.5 centimeter margins; (2) thin invasive melanoma, less than 1 millimeter thick, has the potential for long-term survival in more than 90 percent of patients after surgical excision with a 1 centimeter margin; (3) elective lymph node dissections and extensive staging evaluations are not recommended in early melanoma; (4) patients with early melanoma are at low risk for relapse but may be at high risk for development of subsequent melanomas and should be followed closely; (5) some family members of patients with melanoma are at increased risk for melanoma and should be enrolled in surveillance programs; and (6) education and screening programs have the potential to decrease morbidity and mortality from melanoma. A copy of the full text of the consensus panel's statement is available by calling the NIH Office of Medical Applications of Research at (301) 496-1143 or by writing to: Office of Medical Applications of Research, National Institutes of Health, Federal Building, Room 618, Bethesda, MD 20892. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 31 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers The Cancer Centers Program is comprised of 55 NCI-designated Cancer Centers actively engaged in multidisciplinary research efforts to reduce cancer incidence, morbidity, and mortality. Within the program, there are four types of cancer centers: basic science cancer centers (14), which engage primarily in basic cancer research; clinical cancer centers (12), which focus on clinical research; "comprehensive" cancer centers (28), which emphasize a multidisciplinary approach to cancer research, patient care, and community outreach; and consortium cancer centers (1), which specialize in cancer prevention and control research. Although some cancer centers existed in the late 1960s and the 1970s, it was the National Cancer Act of 1971 that authorized the establishment of 15 new cancer centers, as well as continuing support for existing ones. The passage of the act also dramatically transformed the centers' structure and broadened the scope of their mission to include all aspects of basic, clinical, and cancer control research. Over the next two decades, the centers' program grew progressively. In 1990, there were 19 comprehensive cancer centers in the nation. Today, there are 28 of these institutions, all of which meet specific NCI criteria for comprehensive status. To attain recognition from the NCI as a comprehensive cancer center, an institution must pass rigorous peer review. Under guidelines newly established in 1990, the eight criteria for "comprehensiveness" include the requirement that a center have a strong core of basic laboratory research in several scientific fields, such as biology and molecular genetics, a strong program of clinical research, and an ability to transfer research findings into clinical practice. Moreover, five of the criteria for comprehensive status go significantly beyond that required for attaining a Cancer Center Support Grant (also referred to as a P30 or core grant), the mechanism of choice for supporting the infrastructure of a cancer center's operations. These criteria encompass strong participation in NCI-designated high-priority clinical trials, significant levels of cancer prevention and control research, and important outreach and educational activities--all of which are funded by a variety of sources. The other types of cancer centers also have special characteristics and capabilities for organizing new programs of research that can exploit important new findings or address timely research questions. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 32 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Of the 55 NCI-designated Cancer Centers, 14 are of the basic science type. These centers engage almost entirely in basic research, although some centers engage in collaborative research with outside clinical research investigators and in cooperative projects with industry to generate medical applications from new discoveries in the laboratory. Clinical cancer centers, in contrast, focus on both basic research and clinical research within the same institutional framework, and frequently incorporate nearby affiliated clinical research institutions into their overall research programs. There are 12 such centers today. Finally, consortium cancer centers, of which there is one, are uniquely structured and concentrate on clinical research and cancer prevention and control research. These centers interface with state and local public health departments for the purpose of achieving the transfer of effective prevention and control techniques from their research findings to those institutions responsible for implementing population-wide public health programs. Consortium centers also are heavily engaged in collaborations with institutions that conduct clinical trial research and coordinate community hospitals within a network of cooperating institutions in clinical trials. Together, the 55 NCI-Designated Cancer Centers continue to work toward creating new and innovative approaches to cancer research, and through interdisciplinary efforts, to effectively move this research from the laboratory into clinical trials and into clinical practice. Comprehensive Cancer Centers (Internet addresses are given where available) University of Alabama at Birmingham Comprehensive Cancer Center Basic Health Sciences Building, Room 108 1918 University Boulevard Birmingham, Alabama 35294 (205) 934-6612 University of Arizona Cancer Center 1501 North Campbell Avenue Tucson, Arizona 85724 (602) 626-6372 Internet: syd@azcc.arizona.edu Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center University of California at Los Angeles 200 Medical Plaza Los Angeles, California 90027 (213) 206-0278 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 33 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Internet: rick@jccc.medsch.ucla.edu Kenneth T. Norris Jr. Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Southern California 1441 Eastlake Avenue Los Angeles, California 90033-0804 (213) 226-2370 Yale University Comprehensive Cancer Center 333 Cedar Street New Haven, Connecticut 06510 (203) 785-6338 Lombardi Cancer Research Center Georgetown University Medical Center 3800 Reservoir Road, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007 (202) 687-2192 Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Miami Medical School 1475 Northwest 12th Avenue Miami, Florida 33136 (305) 548-4800 Internet: hlam@mednet.med.miami.edu Johns Hopkins Oncology Center 600 North Wolfe Street Baltimore, Maryland 21205 (410) 955-8638 Dana-Farber Cancer Institute 44 Binney Street Boston, Massachusetts 02115 (617) 732-3214 Internet: Kristie_Stevenson@macmailgw.dfci.harvard.edu Meyer L. Prentis Comprehensive Cancer Center of Metropolitan Detroit 110 East Warren Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48201 (313) 745-4329 Internet: cummings%oncvx1.dnet@rocdec.roc.wayne.edu University of Michigan Cancer Center HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 34 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 101 Simpson Drive Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-0752 (313) 936-9583 BITNET: kallie.bila.michels@um.cc.umich.edu Mayo Comprehensive Cancer Center 200 First Street Southwest Rochester, Minnesota 55905 (507) 284-3413 Norris Cotton Cancer Center Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center One Medical Center Drive Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756 (603) 646-5505 BITNET: edward.bresnick@dartmouth.edu Roswell Park Cancer Institute Elm and Carlton Streets Buffalo, New York 14263 (716) 845-4400 Columbia University Comprehensive Cancer Center College of Physicians and Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, New York 10032 (212) 305-6905 Internet: janie@cuccfa.ccc.columbia.edu Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center 1275 York Avenue New York, New York 10021 (800) 525-2225 Kaplan Cancer Center New York University Medical Center 462 First Avenue New York, New York 10016-9103 (212) 263-6485 UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center University of North Carolina School of Medicine Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599 (919) 966-4431 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 35 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center P.O. Box 3814 Durham, North Carolina 27710 (919) 286-5515 Cancer Center of Wake Forest University at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine 300 South Hawthorne Road Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27103 (919) 748-4354 Internet: ccwfumail@phs.bgsm.wfu.edu Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center 300 West 10th Avenue Columbus, Ohio 43210 (614) 293-5485 Internet: dyoung@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu Fox Chase Cancer Center 7701 Burholme Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111 (215) 728-2570 Internet: s_davis@fccc.edu University of Pennsylvania Cancer Center 3400 Spruce Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104 (215) 662-6364 Pittsburgh Cancer Institute 200 Meyran Avenue Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213-2592 (800) 537-4063 The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center 1515 Holcombe Boulevard Houston, Texas 77030 (713) 792-3245 Vermont Cancer Center University of Vermont 1 South Prospect Street Burlington, Vermont 05401 (802) 656-4580 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 36 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center 1124 Columbia Street Seattle, Washington 98104 (206) 667-4675 Internet: sedmonds@cclink.fhcrc.org University of Wisconsin Comprehensive Cancer Center 600 Highland Avenue Madison, Wisconsin 53792 (608) 263-8600 BITNET: carbone@uwccc.biostat.wisc.edu Clinical Cancer Centers University of California at San Diego Cancer Center 225 Dickinson Street San Diego, California 92103 (619) 543-6178 Internet: dedavis@ucsd.edu City of Hope National Medical Center Beckman Research Institute 1500 East Duarte Road Duarte, California 91010 (818) 359-8111 ext. 2292 University of Colorado Cancer Center 4200 East 9th Avenue, Box B188 Denver, Colorado 80262 (303) 270-7235 University of Chicago Cancer Research Center 5841 South Maryland Avenue, Box 444 Chicago, Illinois 60637 (312) 702-6180 Internet: judith@delphi.bsd.uchicago.edu Albert Einstein College of Medicine 1300 Morris Park Avenue Bronx, New York 10461 (212) 920-4826 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 37 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 University of Rochester Cancer Center 601 Elmwood Avenue, Box 704 Rochester, New York 14642 (716) 275-4911 Internet: rickb@wotan.medicine.rochester.edu Ireland Cancer Center Case Western Reserve University University Hospitals of Cleveland 2074 Abington Road Cleveland, Ohio 44106 (216) 844-5432 Roger Williams Cancer Center Brown University 825 Chalkstone Avenue Providence, Rhode Island 02908 (401) 456-2071 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital 332 North Lauderdale Street Memphis, Tennessee 38101-0318 (901) 522-0306 Internet: meyer@mbcf.stjude.org Institute for Cancer Research and Care 4450 Medical Drive San Antonio, Texas 78229 (512) 616-5580 Utah Regional Cancer Center University of Utah Health Sciences Center 50 North Medical Drive, Room 2C110 Salt Lake City, Utah 84132 (801) 581-4048 BITNET: hogan@cc.utah.edu Massey Cancer Center Medical College of Virginia Virginia Commonwealth University 1200 East Broad Street Richmond, Virginia 23298 (804) 786-9641 Consortia HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 38 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Drew-Meharry-Morehouse Consortium Cancer Center 1005 D.B. Todd Boulevard Nashville, Tennessee 37208 (615) 327-6927 HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 39 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: General Announcments :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: THE UCI MEDICAL EDUCATION SOFTWARE REPOSITORY This is to announce the establishment of an FTP site at the University of California, for the collection of shareware, public-domain software and other information relating to Medical Education. Specifically, we are interested in establishing this site as a clearinghouse for personally developed software that has been developed for local medical education programs. We welcome all contributions that may be shared with other users. To connect to the UCI Medical Education Software Repository, ftp to: FTP.UCI.EDU The Repository currently offers both MSDOS and Macintosh software, and we hope to support other operating systems (UNIX, MUMPS, AMIGA?). Uploads are welcome. We actively solicit information and software which you have personaly developed or have found useful in your local medical education efforts, either as an instructor or student. Once you have connected to the site via FTP, cd (change directory) to either the med-ed/mac/incoming or the med-ed/msdos/incoming directories, change the mode to binary and "send" or "put" your files. Note that you won't be able to see the files with the "ls" or "dir" commands. Please compress your files as appropriate to the operating system (ZIP for MSDOS; Compactor or something similar for Macintosh) to save disk space. After uploading, please send email to Steve Clancy (slclancy@uci.edu) (for MSDOS) or Albert Saisho (saisho@uci.edu) (for MAC) describing the file(s) you have uploaded and any other information we might need to describe it. Note that we can only accept software or information that has been designated as shareware, public-domain or that may otherwise be distributed freely. Please do not upload commercial software! Doing so may jeopardize the existence of this FTP site. If you wish to upload software for other operating systems, please contact either Steve Clancy, M.L.S. or Albert Saisho, M.D. at the addresses above. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 40 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS News Summaries :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS Daily Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National AIDS Clearinghouse makes available the following information as a public service only. Providing this information does not constitute endorsement by the CDC, the CDC Clearinghouse, or any other organization. Reproduction of this text is encouraged; however, copies may not be sold. Copyright 1993, Information, Inc., Bethesda, MD ================================================================== April 12, 1993 ================================================================== "NIH Set to Test Multiple AIDS Vaccines" Reuters (04/08/93) (Frank, Jacqueline) Washington--The Clinton administration will permit the National Institutes of Health to test multiple AIDS vaccines instead of only allowing the Army to test a single vaccine, administration sources said Thursday. The decision ends the controversy between Army AIDS researchers who had hoped to test a vaccine made by MicroGeneSys Inc. and the National Institutes of Health, which contended that multiple vaccines should be tested. Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said a final announcement on the therapeutic vaccine trials was expected to be made last Friday. Companies including Genentech Inc., Chiron Corp., and Immuno AG have already told NIH that they are prepared to participate in the vaccine tests. The testing is intended to demonstrate whether AIDS vaccines are effective in thwarting the replication of HIV in patients already infected. Shalala refuted last week's reports that the Clinton administration had decided the Army's test of the MicroGeneSys VaxSyn should proceed without tests of others at the same time. "The report was inaccurate, and I expect there to be some announcement in the next 24 hours about that particular AIDS research project," said Shalala. Administration sources subsequently confirmed that NIH director Dr. Bernadine Healy and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler had convinced the White House that multiple vaccines should be tested simultaneously. But MicroGeneSys president Frank Volvovitz said a test of multiple vaccines could triple the cost of the trial and delay it by two years. ================================================================== HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 41 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 "The Limits of AZT's Impact on HIV" U.S. News & World Report (04/12/93) Vol. 114, No. 14, P. 18 AZT has become the most widely used drug to fight AIDS since it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1987. Burroughs Wellcome, the manufacturer of AZT, made $338 million last year alone from sales of the drug. However, a team of European researchers recently reported that although HIV-positive patients taking AZT demonstrated a slightly lower risk of developing AIDS within the first year of treatment, that benefit disappeared two years later. The Lancet published preliminary findings of the three-year study, which could give more reason for critics to argue the drug's cost, side effects, and general efficacy. Even though U.S. researchers concede the study was more comprehensive than American trials, many argue the European researchers' suggestion that HIV-positive patients experience little improvement in their illness before the development of AIDS symptoms. In addition, researchers have long been familiar with the --------- end of part 3 ------------
Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Right Violations in Azerbaijan #008 Part B Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh (Part B of #008) +------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | | "Oh, yes, I just remembered. While they were raping me they | | repeated quite frequently, "Let the Armenian women have babies | | for us, Muslim babies, let them bear Azerbaijanis for the | | struggle against the Armenians." Then they said, "Those | | Muslims can carry on our holy cause. Heroes!" They repeated | | it very often." | | | +------------------------------------------------------------------+ ...continued from PART A: The six of them left. They left and I had an attack. I realized that the dan- ger was past, and stopped controlling myself. I relaxed for a moment and the physical pain immediately made itself felt. My heart and kidneys hurt. I had an awful kidney attack. I rolled back and forth on top of those Christmas ornaments, howling and howling. I didn't know where I was or how long this went on. When we figured out the time, later it turned out that I howled and was in pain for around an hour. Then all my strength was gone and I burst into tears, I started feeling sorry for myself, and so on and so forth . . . Then someone came into the room. I think I hear someone calling my name. I want to respond and restrain myself, I think that I'm hallucinating. I am silent, and then it continues: it seems that first a man's voice is calling me, then a woman's. Later I found out that Mamma had sent our neighbor, the one whose apartment she was hiding in, Uncle Sabir Kasumov, to our place, telling him, "I know that they've killed Lyuda. Go there and at least bring her corpse to me so they don't violate her corpse." He went and returned empty handed, but Mamma thought he just didn't want to carry the corpse into his apartment. She sent him another time, and then sent his wife, and they were walking through the rooms looking for me, but I didn't answer their calls. There was no light, they had smashed the chandeliers and lamps. They started the pogrom in our apartment around five o'clock, and at 9:30 I went down to the Kasumovs'. I went down the stairs myself. I walked out of the apartment: how long can you wait for your own death, how long can you be cowardly, afraid? Come what will. I walked out and started knocking on the doors one after the next. No one, not on the fifth floor, not on the fourth, opened the door. On the third floor, on the landing of the stairway, Uncle Sabir's son started to shout, "Aunt Roza, don't cry, Lyuda's alive!" He knocked on his own door and out came Aunt Tanya, Igor, and after them, Mamma. Aunt Tanya, Uncle Sabir's wife, is an Urdmurt. All of us were in their apartment. I didn't see Karina, but she was in their home, too, Lying delirious, she had a fever. Marina was there too, and my father and mother. All of my family had gathered there. At the door I lost consciousness. Igor and Aunt Tanya carried me into the apartment. Later I found out what they had done to our Karina. Mamma said, "Lyuda, Karina's in really serious condition, she's probably dying. If she recognizes you, don't cry, don't tell her that her face looks so awful." It was as though her whole face was paralyzed, you know, everything was pushed over to one side, her eye was all swollen, and everything flowed together, her lips, her cheeks . . . It was as though they had dragged her right side around the whole microdistrict, that's how disfigured her face was. I said, "Fine." Mamma was afraid to go into the room, because she went in and hugged Karina and started to cry. I went in. As soon as I saw her my legs gave way. I fell down near the bed, hugged her legs and started kissing them and crying. She opened the eye that was intact, looked at me, and said, "Who is it?" But I could barely talk, my whole face was so badly beaten. I didn't say, but rather muttered something tender, something incomprehensible, but tender, "My Karochka, my Karina, my little golden one . . . " She understood me. Then Igor brought me some water, I drank it down and moistened Karina's lips. She started to groan. She was saying something to me, but I couldn't understand it. Then I made out, "It hurts, I hurt all over." Her hair was glued down with blood. I stroked her forehead, her head, she had grit on her forehead, and on her lips . . . She was groaning again, and I don't know how to help her. She calls me over with her hand, come closer. I go to her. She's saying something to me, but I can't understand her. Igor brings her a pencil and paper and says, "Write it down." She shakes her head as if to say, no, I can't write. I can't understand what she's saying. She wanted to tell me something, but she couldn't. I say, "Karina, just lie there a little while, then maybe you'll feel better and you can tell me then." And then she says, "Maybe it'll be too late." And I completely . . . just broke down, I couldn't control myself. Then I moistened my hand in the water and wiped her forehead and eye. I dipped a handkerchief into the water and squeezed a little water onto her lips. She says, "Lyuda, we're not saved yet, we have to go somewhere else. Out of this damned house. They want to kill us, I know. They'll find us here, too. We need to call Urshan." She repeated this to me for almost a whole hour, Until I understood her every word. I ask, "What's his number?" Urshan Feyruzovich, that's the head of the administration where she works. "We have to call him." But I didn't know his home number. I say, "Karina, what's his number?" She says, "I can't remember." I say, "Who knows his number? Who can I call?" She says, "I don't know anything, leave me alone." I went out of the room. Igor stayed to watch over her and sat there, he was crying, too. I say, "Mamma, Karina says that we have to call Urshan. How can we call him? Who knows his telephone number?" I tell Marina, "Think, think, who can we call to find out?" She started calling; several people didn't answer. She called a girlfriend, her girlfriend called another girlfriend and found out the number and called us back. The boss's wife answered and said he was at the dacha. My voice keeps cracking, I can't talk normally. She says, "Lyuda, don't panic, get a hold of yourself, go out to those hooligans and tell them that they just can't do that." She still didn't know what was really going on. I said, "It's easy for you to say that, you don't understand what's happening. They are killing people here. I don't think there is a single Armenian left in the building, they've cut them all up. I'm even surprised that we managed to save ourselves. "She says, "Well, OK, if it's that serious . . . " And all the same she's thinking that my emotions are all churned up and that I'm fearing for my life, that in fact it's not all that bad. "OK, fine, fine," she says, "if you're afraid, OK, as soon as Urshan comes back I'll send him over." We called again because they had just started robbing the apartment directly under Aunt Tanya's, on the second floor, Asya Dallakian's apartment. She wasn't home, she was staying with her daughter in Karabagh. They destroyed everything there . . . We realized that they still might come back. We kept on trying to get through to Aunt Tanya--Urshan's wife is named Tanya too and finally we get through. She says, "Yes, he's come home, he's leaving for your place now." He came. Of course he didn't know what was happening, either, because he brought two of his daughters with him. He came over in his jeep with his two daughters, like he was going on an outing. He came and saw what shape we were in and what was going on in town and got frightened. He has grown up daughters, they're almost my age. The three of us carried out Karina, tossed a coat on her and a warm scarf, and went down to his car. He took Karina and me to the Maternity Home. . . No, first they took us to the po]ice precinct. They had stretchers ready. As soon as we got out of the car they put Karina and me on stretchers and said that we were in serious condition and that we mustn't move, we might have fractures. From the stretcher I saw about 30 soldiers sitting and lying on the first floor, bandaged, on the concrete floor, groaning . . . This was around eleven o'clock at night. We had left the house somewhere around 1:30. When I saw those soldiers I realized that a war was going on: soldiers, enemies . . . everything just like a war. They carried me into some office on the stretcher. The emergency medical people from Baku were there. The medical attendant there was an older Armenian. Urshan told him what they had done to Karina because she's so proud she would never have told. And this aging Armenian . . . his name was Uncle Arkady, I think, because someone said "Arkady, get an injection ready," he started to fill a syringe, and turned around so as to give Karina a shot. But when he looked at her face he became ill. And he was an old man, in his sixties, his hair was all grey, and his moustache, too. He hugged Karina and started to cry: "What have they done to you?!" He was speaking Armenian. "What have they done to you?!" Karina didn't say anything. Mamma came in then, and she started to cry, too. The man tried to calm her. "I'll give you a shot." Mamma tells him, "I don't need any shot. Where is the government? Just what are they doing? Look what they've done to my children! They're killing people, and you're just sitting here!" Some teacups were standing on the table in there. "You're sitting here drinking tea! Look what they've done to my daughters! Look what they've turned them into!" They gave her something to drink, some heart medicine, I think. They gave Karina an injection and the doctor said that she had to be taken to the Maternity Home immediately. Papa and Urshan, I think, even though Papa was in bad shape, helped carry Karina out. When they put her on the stretcher, none of the medics got near her. I don't know, maybe there weren't any orderlies. Then they came to me: "What's the matter with you?" Their tone was so official that I wrapped myself tighter in the half-length coat. I had a blanket on, too, an orange one, Aunt Tanya's. I said, "I'm fine." Uncle Arkady came over and was soothing me, and then told the doctor, "You leave, let a woman examine her." A woman came, an Azerbaijani, I believe, and said, "What's wrong with you?" I was wearing my sister Lyuda's nightshirt, the sister who at this time was in Yerevan. When she was nursing her infant she had cut out a big hole in it so that it would be easier to breast feed the baby. I tore the night shirt some more and showed her. I took it off my shoulders and turned my back to her. There was a huge wound, about the size of a hand, on my back, from the Indian vase. She said something to them and they gave me two shots. She said that it should be dressed with something, but that they'd do that in the hospital. They put me on a stretcher, too. They started looking for people to carry me. I raised up my head a little and wanted to sit up, and this woman, I don't know if she was a doctor or a nurse, said, "Lie still, you mustn't move." When I was lying back down I saw two policemen leading a man. His profile seemed very familiar to me. I shouted, "Stop!" One of the policemen turned and says, "What do you want?" I say, "Bring him to me, I want to look at him." They brought him over and I said, "That person was just in our apartment and he just raped me and my sister. I recognize him, note it down." They said, "Fine," but didn't write it down and led him on. I don't know where they were taking him. Then they put my stretcher near where the injured and beaten soldiers were sitting. They went to look for the ambulance driver so he would bring the car up closer. One of the soldiers started talking to me, "Sister . . . " I don't remember the conversation exactly, but he asked me were we lived and what they did to us. I asked him, "Where are you from?" He said that he was from Ufa. Apparently they were the first that were brought in. The Ufa police. Later I learned that they suffered most of all. He says, "OK, you're Armenians, they didn't get along with you, but I'm a Russian," he says, "what are they trying to kill me for?" Oh, I remembered something else. When I went out onto the balcony with Kuliyev for a hammer and nails I looked out the window and saw two Azerbaijanis beating a soldier near the kindergarten. He was pressed against the fence and he covered his head with his arms, they were beating him with his own club. The way he cried "Mamma" made my skin crawl. I don't know what they did to him, if he's still alive or not. And something else. Before he attack on our house we saw sheets, clothes, and some dishes flying from the third or fourth floor of the neighboring building, but I didn't think it was Azerbaijanis attacking Armenians. I thought that something was on fire or they were throwing something they didn't need out, or someone was fighting with someone. It was only later, when they were burning a passenger car in the yard, when the neighbors said that they were doing that to the Armenians, that I realized that this was serious, that it was anti-Armenian. They took Karina and me to the Sumgait Maternity Home. Mamma went to them too and said, "I've been beaten too, help me." But they just ignored her. My father went to them and said in a guilty voice, as though it was his fault that he'd been beaten, and says, "My ribs hurt so much, those creeps have probably broken my ribs. Please look at them." The doctor says, "That's not my job." Urshan said, "Fine, I'll take you to my place and if we need a doctor, I'll find you one. I'll bring one and have him look at you. And he drove them to his apartment. Marina and I stayed there. They examined us. I was more struck by what the doctor said than by what those Azerbaijanis in our apartment did to us. I wasn't surprised when they beat us they wanted to beat us, but I was very surprised that in a Soviet medical facility a woman who had taken the Hippocratic Oath could talk to victims like that. By happy--or unhappy-- coincidence we were seen by the doctor that had delivered our Karina. And she, having examined Karina, said, "No problem, you got off pretty good. Not like they did in Kafan, when you Armenians were killing and raping our women. "Karina was in such terrible condition that she couldn't say anything--she would certainly have had something to say! Then they examined me. The same story. They put us in a separate ward. No shots, no medicinal powders, no drugs. Absolutely none! They didn't even give us tea. All the women there soon found out that in ward such and such were Armenians who had been raped. And they started coming and peering through the keyhole, the way people look at zoo animals. Karina didn't see this, she was lying there, and I kept her from seeing it. They put Ira B. in our ward. She had also been raped. True, she didn't have any serious bodily injuries, but when she told me what had happened at their place, I felt worse for them than I did for us. Because when they raped Ira her daughter was in the room, she was under the bed on which it happened. And Ira was holding her daughter's hand, the one who was hiding under the bed. When they were beating Ira or taking her earrings off, gold, when she involuntarily let go of her daughter's hand, her daughter took her hand again. Her daughter is in the fourth grade, she's 11 years old. I felt really awful when I heard that. Ira asked them not to harm her daughter, she said, "Do what you want with me, just leave my daughter alone." Well, they did what they wanted. They threatened to kill her daughter if she got in their way. Now I would be surprised if the criminals had behaved any other way that night. It was simply Bartholomew's Night, I say, they did what they would love to do every day: steal, kill, rape . . . Many are surprised that those animals didn't harm the children. The beasts explained it like this: this would be repeated in 15 to 20 years, and those children would be grown, and then, as they put it, "we'll come take the pleasure out of their lives, those children." This was about the girls that would be young women in 15 years. They were thinking about their tomorrow because they were sure that there would be no trial and no investigation, just as there was no trial or investigation in 1915, and that those girls could be of some use in 15 years. This I heard from the investigators; one of the victims testified to it. That's how they described their own natures, that they would still be bloodthirsty in 15 to 20 years, and in 100 years--they themselves said that. And this, too. Everyone is surprised that they didn't harm our Marina. Many people say that they either were drunk or had smoked too much. I don't know why their eyes were red. Maybe because they hadn't slept the night before, maybe for some other reason, I don't know. But they hadn't been smoking and they weren't drunk, I'm positive, because someone who has smoked will stop at nothing he has the urge to do. And they spoke in a cultured fashion with Marina: "Little sister, don't be afraid, we won't harm you, don't look over there [where I was], you might be frightened. You're a Muslim, a Muslim woman shouldn't see such things." So they were really quite sober . . . So we came out of that story alive. Each every day we have lived since it all happened bears the mark of that day. It wasn't even a day, of those several hours. Father still can't look us in the eyes. He still feels guilty for what happened to Karina, Mother, and me. Because of his nerves he's started talk- ing to himself, I've heard him argue with himself several times when he thought no one is listening: "Listen," he'll say, "what could I do? What could I do alone, how could I protect them?" I don't know where to find the words, it's not that I'm happy, but I am glad that he didn't see it all happen. That's the only thing they spared us . . . or maybe it happened by chance. Of course he knows it all, but there's no way you could imagine every last detail of what happened. And there were so many conversations: Karina and I spoke together in private, and we talked with Mamma, too. But Father was never present at those conversations. We spare him that, if you can say that. And when the investigator comes to the house, we don't speak with Father present. On February 29, the next clay, Karina and I were discharged from the hospital. First they released me, but since martial law had been declared in the city, the soldiers took me to the police precinct in an armored personnel carrier. There were many people there, Armenian victims. I met the Tovmasian family there. From them I learned that Rafik and their Uncle Grant had died. They were sure that both had died. They were talking to me and Raya, Rafik's wife and Grant's daughter, and her mother, were both crying. Then they took us all out of the office on the first floor into the yard. There's a little one-room house outside there, a recreation and reading area. They took us in there. The women were afraid to go because they thought that they were shooing us out of the police precinct because it had become so dangerous that even the people working at the precinct wanted to hide. The women were shouting. They explained to them: "We want to hide you better because it's possible there will be an attack on the police precinct." We went into the little house. There were no chairs or tables in there. We had children with us and they were hungry; we even had infants who needed to have their diapers changed. No one had anything with them. It was just awful. They kept us there for 24 hours. From the window of the one room house you could see that there were Azerbaijanis standing on the fences around the police precinct, as though they were spying on us. The police precinct is surrounded by a wall, like a fence, and it's electrified, but if they were standing on the wall, it means the electricity was shut off. This brought great psychological pressure to bear on us, particularly on those who hadn't just walked out of their apartments, but who hadn't slept for 24 hours, or 48, or those who had suffered physically and spiritually, the ones who had lost family members. For us it was another ordeal. We were especially frightened when all the precinct employees suddenly disappeared. We couldn't see a single person, not in the courtyard and not in the windows. We thought that they must have already been hiding under the building, that they must have some secret room down there. People were panicking: they started throwing themselves at one another . . . That's the way it is on a sinking ship. We heard those people, mainly young people, whistling and whopping on the walls. We felt that the end was approaching. I was completely terrified: I had left Karina in the hospital and didn't know where my parents were. I was sort of calm about my parents, I was thinking only about Karina, if, Heaven forbid, they should attack the hospital, they would immediately tell them that there was an Armenian in there, and something terrible would happen to Karina again, and she wouldn't be able to take it. Then soldiers with dogs appeared. When they saw the dogs some of the people climbed down off the fence. Then they brought in about another 30 soldiers. They all had machine guns in readiness, their fingers on the triggers. We calmed down a little. They brought us chairs and brought the children some little cots and showed us where we could wash our hands, and took the children to the toilet. But we all sat there hungry, but to be honest, it would never have occurred to any of us that we hadn't eaten for two days and that people do eat. Then, closer to nightfall, they brought a group of detained criminals. They were being watched by soldiers with guard dogs. One of the men came back from the courtyard and told us about it. Raya Tovmasian . . . it was like a different woman had been substituted. Earlier she had been crying, wailing, and calling out: "Oh, Rafik!," but when she heard about this such a rage came over her! She jumped up, she had a coat on, and she started to roll up her sleeves like she was getting ready to beat someone. And suddenly there were soldiers, and dogs, and lots of people. She ran over to them. The bandits were standing there with their hands above their heads facing the wall. She went up to one of them and grabbed him by the collar and started to shake and thrash him! Then, on to a second, and a third. Everyone was rooted to the spot. Not one of the soldiers moved, no one went up to help or made her stop her from doing it. And the bandits fell down and covered their heads with their hands, muttering something. She came back and sat down, and something akin to a smile appeared on her face. She became so quiet: no tears, no cries. Then that round was over and she went back to beat them again. She was walking and cursing terribly: take that, and that, they killed my husband, the bastards, the creeps, and so on. Then she came back again and sat down. She probably did this the whole night through, well, it wasn't really night, no one slept. She went five or six times and beat them and returned. And she told the women, "What are you sitting there for? They killed your husbands and children, they raped, and you're just sitting there. You're sitting and talking as though nothing had happened. Aren't you Armenians?" She appealed to everyone, but no one got up. I was just numb, I didn't have the strength to beat anyone, I could barely hold myself up, all the more so since I had been standing for so many hours--I was released at eleven o'clock in the morning and it was already after ten at night because there weren't enough chairs, really it was the elderly and women with children who sat. I was on my feet the whole time. There was nothing to breathe, the door was closed, and the men were smoking. The situation was deplorable. At eleven o'clock at night policemen came for us, local policemen, Azerbaijanis. They said, "Get up. They've brought mattresses, you can wash up and put the children to bed." Now the women didn't want to leave this place, either. The place had become like home, it was safe, there were soldiers with dogs. If anyone went outside, the soldiers would say, "Oh, it's our little family," and things like that. The soldiers felt this love, and probably, for the first time in their lives perceived themselves as defenders. Everyone spoke from the heart, cried, and hugged them and they, with their loaded machine guns in their hands, said, "Grandmother, you mustn't approach me, I'm on guard." Our people would say, "Oh, that's all right." They hugged them, one woman even kissed one of the machine guns. This was all terribly moving for me. And the small children kept wanting to pet the dogs. They took us up to the second floor and said, "You can undress and sleep in here. Don't be afraid, the precinct is on guard, and it's quiet in the city." This was the 29th, when the killing was going on in block 41A and in other places. Then we were told that all the Armenians were being gathered at the SK club and at the City Party Committee. They took us there. On the way I asked them to stop at the Maternity Home: I wanted to take Karina with me. I didn't know what was happening there. They told me, "Don't worry, the Maternity Home is full of soldiers, more than mothers-to-be. So you can rest assured. I say, "Well, I won't rest assured regardless, because the staff in there is capable of anything." When I arrived at the City Party Committee it turned out that Karina had already been brought there. They had seen fit to release her from the hospi- tal, deciding that she felt fine and was no longer in need of any care. Once we were in the City Party Committee we gave free reign to our tears. We met acquaintances, but everyone was somehow divided into two groups, those who hadn't been injured, who were clothed, who had brought a pot of food with them, and so on, and those, like me, like Raya, who were wearing whatever had come their way. There were even people who were all made up, dolled up like they had come from a wedding. There were people without shoes, naked people, hungry people, those who were crying, and those who had lost someone. And of course the stories and the talk were flying: "Oh, I heard that they killed him!" "What do you mean they killed him!" "He stayed at work!" "Do you know what's happening at this and such a plant? Talk like that. And then I met Aleksandr Mikhailovich Gukasian, the teacher. I know him very well and respect him highly. I've known him for a long time. They had a small room, well really it was more like a study-room. We spent a whole night talking in that study once. On March 1 we heard that Bagirov [First Secretary of the Communist Party of Azerbaijan SSR] had arrived. Everyone ran to see Bagirov, what news he had brought with him and how this was all being viewed from outside. He arrived and everyone went up to him to talk to him and ask him things. Everyone was in a tremendous rage. But he was protected by soldiers, and he went up to the second floor and didn't deign to speak with the people. Apparently he had more important things to do. Several hours passed. Gukasian called me and says, "Lyudochka, find another two or three. We're going to make up lists, they asked for them upstairs, lists of the dead, those whose whereabouts are unknown, and lists of people who had pogroms of their apartments and of those whose cars were burned." I had about 50 people in my list when they called me and said, "Lyuda, your Mamma has arrived, she's looking for you, she doesn't believe that you are alive and well and that you're here." I gave the lists to someone and asked them to continue what I was doing and went off. The list was imprecise, of course. It included Grant Adamian, Raya Tovmasian's father, who was alive, but at the time they thought him dead. There was Engels Grigorian's father and aunt, Cherkez and Maria. The list also included the name of my girlfriend and neighbor, Zhanna Agabekian. One of the guys said that he had been told that they chopped her head off in the courtyard in front of the Kosmos movie theater. We put her on the list too, and cried, but later it turned out that that was just a rumor, that in fact an hour earlier she had somehow left Sumgait for the marina and from there had set sail for Krasnovodsk, where, thank God, she was alive and well. I should also say that in addition to those who died that list contained people who were rumored missing or who were so badly wounded that they were given up for dead. 3 All the lists were taken to Bagirov. I don't remember how many dead were contained in the list, but it's a fact that when Gukasian came in a couple of minutes later he was cursing and was terribly irate. I asked, "What's going on?" He said, "Lyuda, can you imagine what animals, what scoundrels they are! They say that they lost the list of the dead. Piotr Demichev [Member of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the USSR] has just arrived, and we were supposed to submit the list to him, so that he'd see the scope of the slaughter, of the tragedy, whether it was one or fifty." They told him that the list had disappeared and they should ask everyone who hadn't left for the Khimik boarding house all over again. There were 26 people on our second list. I think that the number 26 was the one that got into the press and onto television and the radio, because that's the list that Demichev got. I remember exactly that there were 26 people on the list, I had even told Aleksandr Mikhailovich that that was only a half of those that were on the first list. He said, "Lyuda, please, try to remember at least one more." But I couldn't remember anyone else. But there were more than 30 dead. Of that I am certain. The government and the Procuracy don't count the people who died of fright, like sick people and old people whose lives are threatened by any shock. They weren't registered as victims of the Sumgait tragedy. And then there may be people we didn't know. So many people left Sumgait between March 1 and 8! Most of them left for smaller towns in Russia, and especially to the Northern Caucasus, to Stavropol, and the Krasnodarsk Territory. We don't have any information on them. I know that there are people who set out for parts around Moscow. In the periodical Krestyanka [Woman Farmer] there was a call for people who know how to milk cows, and for mechanics, and drivers, and I know a whole group of people went to help out. Also clearly not on our list are those people who died entering the city, who were burned in their cars. No one knows about them, except the Azerbaijanis, who are hardly likely to say anything about it. And there's more. A great many of the people who were raped were not included in the list drawn up at the Procuracy. I know of three instances for sure, and I of course don't know them all. I'm thinking of three women whose parents chose not to publicize what had happened, that is, they didn't take the matter to court, they simply left. But in so doing they didn't cease being victims. One of them is the first cousin of my classmate Kocharian. She lived in Microdistrict No. 8, on the fifth floor. I can't tell you the building number and I don't know her name. Then comes the neighbor of one of my relatives, she lived in Microdistrict 1 near the gift shop. I don't know her name, she lives on the same landing as the Sumgait procurator. They beat her father, he was holding the door while his daughter hid, but he couldn't hold the door forever, and when she climbed over the balcony to the neighbors' they seized her by her braid. Like the Azerbaijanis were saying, it was a very cultured mob, because they didn't kill anyone, they only raped them and left. And the third one . . . I don't remember who the third one was anymore. They transferred us on March 1. Karina still wasn't herself. Yes, we lived for days in the SK, in the cultural facility, and at the Khimik. They lived there and I lived at the City Party Committee because I couldn't stay with Karina; it was too difficult for me, but I was at peace: she had survived. I could already walk, but really it was honest words that held me up. Thanks to the social work I did there, I managed to persevere. Aleksandr Mikhailovich said, "If it weren't for the work I would go insane." He and I put ourselves in gear and took everything upon ourselves: someone had an infant and needed diapers and free food, and we went to get them. The first days we bought everything, although we should have received it for free. They were supposed to have been dispensed free of charge, and they sold it to us. Then, when we found out it was free, we went to Krayev. At the time, fortunately, you could still drop by to see him like a neighbor, all the more so since everything was still clearly visible on our faces. Krayev sent a captain down and he resolved the issue. On March 2 they sent two investigators to see us: Andrei Shirokov and Vladimir Fedorovich Bibishev. The way it worked out, in our family they had considered only Karina and me victims, maybe because she and I wound up in the hospital. Mother and Father are considered witnesses, but not victims. Shirokov was involved with Karina's case, and Bibishev, with mine. After I told him everything, he and I planned to sit down with the identikit and record everyone I could remember while everything was still fresh in my mind. We didn't work with the identikit until the very last day because the conditions weren't there. The investigative group worked slowly and did poor quality work solely because the situation wasn't conducive to working: there weren't enough automobiles, especially during the time when there was a curfew, and there were no typewriters for typing transcripts, and no still or video cameras. I think that this was done on purpose. We're not so poor that we can't supply our investigators with all that stuff. It was done especially to draw out the investigation, all the more so since the local authorities saw that the Armenians were leaving at the speed of light, never to return to Sumgait. And the Armenians had a lot to say I came to an agreement with Bibishev, I told him myself, "Don't you worry, if it takes us a month or two months, I'll be here. I'm not afraid, I looked death in the eyes five times in those two days, I'll help you conduct the investigation." He and I worked together a great deal, and I used this to shelter Karina, I gave them so much to do that for a while they didn't have the time to get to her, so that she would at least have a week or two to get back to being her- self. She was having difficulty breathing so we looked for a doctor to take x- rays. She couldn't eat or drink for nine days, she was nauseous. I didn't eat and drank virtually nothing for five days. Then, on the fifth day, when we were in Baku already, the investigator told me, "How long can you go on like this? Well fine, so you don't want to eat, you don't love yourself, you're not taking care of yourself, but you gave your word that you would see this investigation through. We need you." Then I started eating, because in fact I was exhausted. It wasn't enough that I kept seeing those faces in our apart- ment in my mind, every day I went to the investigative solitary confinement cells and prisons. I don't know . . . we were just everywhere! Probably in every prison in the city of Baku and in all the solitary confinement cells of Sumgait. At that time they had even turned the drunk tank into solitary confinement. Thus far I have identified 31 of the people who were in our apartment. Mamma identified three, and Karina, two. The total is 36. Marina didn't identify anyone, she remembers the faces of two or three, But they weren't among the photographs of those detained. I told of the neighbor I recognized. The one who went after the axe. He still hasn't been detained, he's still on the loose. He's gone, and it's not clear if he will be found or not. I don't know his first or last name. I know which building he lived in and I know his sisters' faces. But he's not in the city. The investigators informed me that even if the investigation is closed and even if the trial is over they will continue looking for him. The 31 people I identified are largely blue-collar workers from various plants, without education, and of the very lowest level in every respect. Mostly their ages range from 20 to 30 years; there was one who was 48. Only one of them was a student. He was attending the Azerbaijan Petroleum and Chemical Institute in Sumgait, his mother kept trying to bribe the investiga- tor. Once, thinking that I was an employee and not a victim, she said in front of me "I'll set you up a restaurant worth 500 rubles and give you 600 in cash simply for keeping him out of Armenia," that is, to keep him from landing in a prison on Armenian soil. They're all terribly afraid of that, because if the investigator is talking with a criminal and the criminal doesn't confess even though we identified him, they tell him--in order to apply psychological pressure--they say, "Fine, don't confess, just keep silent. When you're in an Armenian prison, when they find out who you are, they'll take care of you in short order." That somehow gets to them. Many give in and start to talk. The investigators and I were in our apartment and videotaped the entire pogrom of our apartment, as an investigative experiment. It was only then that I saw the way they had left our apartment. Even without knowing who was in our apartment, you could guess. They stole, for example, all the money and all the valuables, but didn't take a single book. They tore them up, burned them, poured water on them, and hacked them with axes. Only the Materials from the 27th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and James Fenimore Cooper's Last of the Mohigans. Oh yes, lunch was ready, we were boiling a chicken, and there were lemons for tea on the table. After they had been in our apartment, both the chicken and the lemons were gone. That's enough to tell you what kind of people were in our apartment, people who don't even know anything about books. They didn't take a single book, but they did take worn clothing, food, and even the cheapest of the cheap, worn-out slippers. Of those whom I identified, four were Kafan Azerbaijanis living in Sumgait. Basically, the group that went seeking "revenge"--let's use their word for it--was joined by people seeking easy gain and thrill-seekers. I talked with one of them. He had gray eyes, and somehow against the back-drop of all that black I remembered him specifically because of his of his eyes. Besides taking part in the pogrom of our apartment, he was also involved in the murder of Tamara Mekhtiyeva from Building 16. She was an older Armenian who had recently arrived from Georgia, she lived alone and did not have anyone in Sumgait. I don't know why she had a last name like that, maybe she was married to an Azerbaijani. I had laid eyes on this woman only once or twice, and know nothing about her. I do know that they murdered her in her apartment with an axe. Murdering her wasn't enough for them. They hacked her into pieces and threw them into the tub with water. I remember another guy really well too, he was also rather fair-skinned. You know, all the people who were in our apartment were darker than dark, both their hair and their skin. And in contrast with them, in addition to the grey- eyed one, I remember this one fellow, the one l took to be a Lezgin. I identified him. As it turned out he was Eduard Robertovich Grigorian, born in the city of Sumgait, and he had been convicted twice. One of our own. How did I remember him? The name Rita was tattooed on his left or right hand. I kept thinking, is that Rita or "puma," which it would be if you read the word as Latin characters instead of Cyrillic, because the Cyrillic "T" was the one that looks like a Latin "M." When they led him in he sat with his hands behind his back. This was at the confrontation. He swore on every holy book, tried to put in an Armenian word here and there to try and spark my compassion, and told me that I was making a mistake, and called me "dear sister." He said, "You're wrong, how could I, an Armenian, raise my hand against my own, an Armenian," and so on. He spoke so convincingly that even the investigator asked me, "Lyuda, are you sure it was he?" I told him, "I'll tell you one more identifying mark. If I'm wrong I shall apologize and say I was mistaken. The name Rita is tattooed on his left or right hand." He went rigid and became pale. They told him, "Put your hands on the table." He put his hands on the table with the palms up. I said, "Now turn your hands over," but he didn't turn his hands over. Now this infuriated me. If he had from the very start acknowledged his guilt and said that he hadn't wanted to do it, that they forced him or something else, I would have treated him somewhat differently. But he insolently stuck to his story, "No, I did not do anything, it wasn't me." When they turned his hands over the name Rita was in fact tattooed on his hand. His face distorted and he whispered something wicked. I immediately flew into a rage. There was an ashtray on the table, a really heavy one, made out of granite or something, very large, and it had ashes and butts in it. Catching myself quite by surprise, I hurled that ashtray at him. But he ducked and the ashtray hit the wall, and ashes and butts rained down on his head and back. And he smiled. When he smiled it provoked me further. I don't know how, but I jumped over the table between us and started either pounding him or strangling him; I no longer remember which. When I jumped I caught the microphone cord. The investigator was there, Tolya . . .I no longer recall his last name, and he says, "Lyudochka, it's a Japanese microphone! Please . . . " And shut off all the equipment on the spot, it was all being video taped. They took him away. I stayed, and they talked to me a little to calm me down, because we needed to go on working, I only remember Tolya telling me, "You're some actress! What a performance!" I said, "Tolya, honestly . . . " Beforehand they would always tell me, "Lyuda, more emotion. You speak as calmly as if nothing had happened to you." I say, "I don't have any more strength or emotion. All my emotions are behind me now, I no longer have the strength . . . I don't have the strength to do anything." And he says, "Lyuda, how were you able to do that?" And when I returned to normal, drinking tea and watching the tape, I said, "Can I really have jumped over that table? I never jumped that high in gym class." So you could say the gang that took over our apartment was international. Of the 36 we identified there was an Armenian, a Russian, Vadim Vorobyev, who beat Mamma, and 34 Azerbaijanis. At the second meeting with Grigorian, when he had completely confessed his guilt, he told of how on February 27 the Azerbaijanis had come knocking. Among them were guys--if you can call them guys--he knew from prison. They said, "Tomorrow we're going after the Armenians. Meet us at the bus station at three o'clock." He said, "No, I'm not coming." They told him, "If you don't come we'll kill you." He said, "Alright, I'll come." And he went. They also went to visit my classmate from our microdistrict, Kamo Pogosian. He had also been in prison; I think that together they had either stolen a motorcycle or dismantled one to get some parts they needed. They called him out of his apartment and told him the same thing: "Tomorrow we're going to get the Armenians. Be there." He said, "No." They pulled a knife on him. He said, "I'm not going all the same." And in the courtyard on the 27th they stabbed him several times, in the stomach. He was taken to the hospital. I know he was in the hospital in Baku, in the Republic hospital. If we had known about that we would have had some idea of what was to come on the 28th. I'll return to Grigorian, what he did in our apartment. I remember that he beat me along with all the rest. He spoke Azerbaijani extremely well. But he was very fair-skinned, maybe that led me to think that they had it out for him, too. But later it was proved that he took part in the beating and burning of Shagen Sargisian. I don't know if he participated in the rapes in our apartment; I didn't see, I don't remember. But the people who were in our apartment who didn't yet know that he was an Armenian said that he did. I don't know if he confessed or not, and I myself don't recall because I blacked out very often. But I think that he didn't participate in the rape of Karina because he was in the apartment the whole time. When they carried her into the courtyard, he remained in the apartment. At one point I was talking with an acquaintance about Edik Grigorian. From her I learned that his wife was a dressmaker, his mother is Russian, he doesn't have a father, and that he's been convicted twice. Well this will be his third and, I hope, last sentence. He beat his wife, she was eternally coming to work with bruises. His wife was an Armenian by the name of Rita. The others who were detained . . . well they're little beasts. You really can't call them beasts, they're just little beasts. They were robots carrying out someone else's will, because at the investigation they all said, "I don't understand how I could have done that, I was out of my head." But we know that they were won around to it and prepared for it, that's why they did it. In the name of Allah, in the name of the Koran, in the name of propagating Islam-- that's holy to them--that's why they did everything they were commanded to do. Because I saw they didn't have minds of their own, I'm not talking about their level of cultural sophistication or any higher values. No education, they work, have a slew of children without the means to raise them properly, they crowd them in, like at the temporary housing, and apparently, they were promised that if they slaughtered the Armenians they would receive apartments. So off they went. Many of them explained their participation saying, "they promised us apartments." Among them was one who genuinely repented. I am sure that he repented from the heart and that he just despised himself after the incident. He worked at a children's home, an Azerbaijani, he has two children, and his wife works at the children's home too. Everything that they acquired, everything that they have they earned by their own labor, and wasn't inherited from parents or grandparents. And he said, "I didn't need anything I just don't know . . . how I ended up in that; it was like some hand was guiding me. I had no will of my own, I had no strength, no masculine dignity, nothing." And the whole time I kept repeating, "Now you imagine that someone did the same to your young wife right before your own eyes." He sat there and just wailed. But that leader in the Eskimo dogskin coat was not detained. He performed a marvelous disappearing act, but I think that they'll get onto him, they just have to work a little, because that Vadim, that boy, according to his grandfather, is in touch with the young person who taught him what to do, how to cover his tracks. He was constantly exchanging jackets with other boys he knew and those he didn't, either, and other things as well, and changed himself like a chameleon so they wouldn't get onto him, but he was detained. That one in the Eskimo dogskin coat was at the Gambarians' after Aleksandr Gambarian was murdered. He came in and said, "Let's go, enough, you've spilled enough blood here." Maybe Karina doesn't know this but the reason they didn't finish her off was that they were hoping to take her home with them. I heard this from Aunt Tanya and her sons, the Kasumovs, who were in the courtyard near the entryway. They liked her very much, and they had decided to take her to home with them. When Karina came to at one point--she doesn't remember this yet, this the neighbors old me--and she saw that there was no one around her, she started crawling to the entryway. They saw that she was still alive and came back, they were already at the third entryway, on their way to the Gambarians'. They came back and started beating her to finish her. If she had not come to she would have sustained lesser bodily injuries, they would have beat her less. An older woman from our building, Aunt Nazan, an Azerbaijani, all but lay on top of Karina, crying and pleading that they leave her alone, but they flung her off. The woman's grown sons were right nearby; they picked her up in their hands and led her home. She howled and cried out loudly and swore: God is on Earth, he sees everything, and He won't forgive this. There was another woman, too, Aunt Fatima, a sick, aging woman from the first floor, she's already retired. Mountain dwellers, and Azerbaijanis, too, have a custom: If men are fighting, they throw a scarf under their feet to stop them. But they trampled her scarf and sent her home. To trample a scarf is tantamount to trampling a woman's honor. Now that the investigation is going on, now that a lot is behind us and we have gotten back to being ourselves a little, I think about how could these events that are now called the Sumgait tragedy happen? How did they come about? How did it start? Could it have been avoided? Well, it's clear that without a signal, without permission from the top leadership, it would not have happened. All the same, I'm not afraid to say this, the Azerbaijanis, let other worthy people take no offense, the better representatives of their nations, let them take no offense, but the Azerbaijanis in their majority are a people who are kept in line only by fear of the law, fear of retribution for what they have done. And when the law said that they could do all that, like unleashed dogs who were afraid they wouldn't have time to do everything, they threw themselves from one thing to the next so as to be able to get more done, to snatch a bit more. The smell of the danger was already in the air on February 27. You could tell that something was going to happen. And everyone who had figured it out took steps to avoid running into those gangs. Many left for their dachas, got plane tickets for the other end of the country, just got as far away as their legs would carry them. February 27 was a Saturday. I was teaching my third class. The director came into my classroom and said that I should let the children out, that there had been a call from the City Party Committee asking that all teachers gather for a meeting at Lenin Square. Well, I excused the children, and there were few teachers left at school, altogether three women, the director, and six or seven men. The rest had already gone home. We got to Lenin Square and there were a great many people there. This was around five-thirty or six in the evening, no later. They were saying all kinds of rubbish up on the podium and the crowd below was supporting them stormily, roaring. They spoke over the microphone about what had happened in Kafan a few days earlier and that the driver of a bus going to some district had recently thrown a small Azerbaijani child off the bus. The speaker affirmed that he was an eyewitness, that he had seen it himself..The crowd started to rage: "Death to the Armenians! They must be killed!" Then a woman went up on stage. I didn't see the woman because people were clinging to the podium like flies. I could only hear her. The woman introduced herself as coming from Kafan, and said that the Armenians cut her daughters' breasts off, and called, "Sons, avenge my daughters!" That was enough. A portion of the people on the square took off running in the direction of the factories, toward the beginning of Lenin Street. We stood there about an hour. Then the director of School 25 spoke, he gave a very nationalist speech. He said, "Brother Muslims, kill the Armenians!" This he repeated every other sentence. When he said this the crowd supported him stormily, whistling and shouting "Karabagh!" He said, "Karabagh has been our territory my whole life long, Karabagh is my soul. How can you tear out my heart?" As though an Azerbaijani would die without Karabagh. "It's our territory, the Armenians will never see it. The Armenians must be eliminated. From time immemorial Muslims have cleansed the land of infidel Armenians, from time immemorial, that's the way nature created it, that every 20 to 30 years the Azerbaijanis should cleanse the land of filth." By filth he meant Armenians. I heard this. Before that I hadn't been listening to the speeches closely. Many people spoke and I stood with my back to the podium, talking shop with the other teachers, and somehow it all went right by, it didn't penetrate, that in fact something serious was taking place. Then, when one of our teachers said, "Listen to what he's saying, listen to what idiocy he's spouting," we listened. That was the speech of that director. Before that we listened to the woman's speech. Right then in our group--there were nine of us--the mood changed, and the subject of conversation and all school matters were forgotten. Our director of studies, for whom I had great respect, he's an Azerbaijani . . . Before that I had considered him an upstanding and worthy person, if there was a need to obtain leave we had asked him, he seemed like a good person. So he tells me, "Lyuda, you know that besides you there are no Armenians on the square? If they find out that you're an Armenian they'll tear you to pieces. Should I tell them you're an Armenian? Should I tell them you're an Armenian?" When he said it the first time I pretended not to hear it, and then he asked me a second time. I turned to the director, Khudurova, and said that it was already after eight, I was expected at home, and I should be leaving. She answered, "No, they said that women should stay here until ten o'clock,.and men, until twelve. Stay here." There was a young teacher with us, her children were in kindergarten and her husband worked shifts. She asked to leave: "I left my children at the kindergarten." The director excused her. When she let her go I turned around, said, "Good-bye," and left with the young teacher, the Azerbaijani. I didn't see them after that. When we were walking the buses weren't running, and a crowd from the rally ran nearby us. They had apparently gotten all fired up. It must have become too much for them, and they wanted to seek vengeance immediately, so they rushed off. I wasn't afraid this time because I was sure that the other teacher wouldn't say that I was an Armenian. To make it short, we reached home. Then Karina told of how they had been at the movies and what had happened there. I started telling of my experience and again my parents didn't understand that we were in danger. We watched television as usual, and didn't even imagine that tomorrow would be our last day. That's how it all was. At the City Party Committee I met an acquaintance, we went to school together, Zhanna, I don't remember her last name, she lives above the housewares store on Narimanov Street. She was there with her father, for some reason she doesn't have a mother. The two of them were at home alone. While her father held the door she jumped from the third floor, and she was lucky that the ground was wet and that there wasn't anyone behind the building when she went out on the balcony, there was no one there, they were all standing near the entryway. That building was also a lucky one in that there were no murders there. She jumped. She jumped and didn't feel any pain in the heat of the moment. A few days later I found out that she couldn't stand up, she had been injured somehow. That's how people in Sumgait saved their lives, their honor, and their children: any way they could. Where it was possible, the Armenians fought back. My father's first cousin, Armen M., lives in Block 30. They found out by phone from one of the victims what was going on in town. The Armenians in that building all called one another immediately and all of them armed themselves with axes, knives, even with muskets and went up to the roof. They took their infants with them, and their old women who had been in bed for God knows how many months, they got them right out of their beds and took everyone upstairs. They hooked electricity up to the trap door to the roof and waited, ready to fight. Then they took the daughter of the school board director hostage, she's an Azerbaijani who lived in their building. They called the school board director and told her that if she didn't help them, the 17 Armenians on the roof, to escape alive and unharmed, she'd never see her daughter again. I'm sure, of course, that Armenians would never lay a hand on a woman, it was just the only thing that could have saved them at the time. She called the police. The Armenians made a deal with the local police to go into town. Two armored personnel carriers and soldiers were summoned They surrounded the entryway and led everyone down from the roof, and off to the side from the armored personnel carriers was a crowd that was on its way to the building at that very moment, into Block 30. That's how they defended themselves. I heard that our neighbors, Roman and Sasha Gambarian, resisted. They're big, strong guys. Their father was killed. And I heard that the brothers put up a strong defense and lost their father, but were able to save their mother. One of the neighbors told me that after it happened, when they were looking for the criminals on March 1 to 2 and detaining everyone they suspected, people hid people in our entryway, maybe people who were injured or perhaps dead. The neighbors themselves were afraid to go there, and when they went with the soldiers into our basement they are supposed to have found Azerbaijani corpses. I don't know how many. Even if they had been wounded and put down there, after two days they would have died from loss of blood or infection--that basement was filled with water. I heard this from the neighbors. And later when I was talking with the investigators the subject came up and they confirmed it. I know, too, that for several hours the basement was used to store objects stolen from our apartment. And our neighbor carried out our carpet, along with the rest: he stole it for himself, posing as one of the criminals. Everyone was taking his own share, and the neighbor took his, too, and carried it home. And when we came back, when everything seemed to have calmed down, he returned it, saying that it was the only thing of ours he had managed to "save." Raya's husband and father defended themselves. The Trdatovs defended themselves, and so did other Armenian families. To be sure there were Azerbaijani victims, although we'll never hear anything about them. For some reason our government doesn't want to say that the Armenians were not just victims, but that they defended the honor of their sisters and mothers, too. In the TV show "Pozitsiya" [Viewpoint] a military man, an officer, said that the Armenians did virtually nothing to defend themselves. But that's not important, the truth will come out regardless. So that's the price we paid those three days. For three days our courage, our bravery, and our humanity was tested. It was those three days, and not the years and dozens of years we had lived before them, that showed what we've become, what we grew up to be. Those three days showed who was who. On that I will conclude my narrative on the Sumgait tragedy. It should be said that it's not over yet, the trials are still ahead of us, and the punishments received by those who so violated us, who wanted to make us into nonhumans will depend on our position and on the work of the investigators, the Procuracy, and literally of every person who lent his hand to the investiga- tion. That's the price we paid to live in Armenia, to not fear going out on the street at night, to not be afraid to say we're Armenians, and to not fear speaking our native tongue. October 15,1988 Yerevan - - - reference for #008 - - - [1] _The Sumgait Tragedy; Pogroms against Armenians in Soviet Azerbaijan, Volume I, Eyewitness Accounts_, edited by Samuel Shahmuradian, forward by Yelena Bonner, 1990, published by Aristide D. Caratzas, NY, pages 118-145
Henrik (?), Your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. I'm not going to spend time to review with you the recent history of Cyprus. If you are really interested, I can provide you with a number of references on the issue. Just send me EMail for that. Relax! You're swinging fists into open air... I was *agreeing* with you, assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state! You may not be very much used to it, to be agreed with - that is, but take it more easily. !:-) No, Henrik, believe me: You don't hope that. Was that after or before one French plane changed its route to avoid inspection??? -- Onur Yalcin oyalcin@iastate.edu
This is not good advice. A couple of years I was involved in a low-speed getoff in which I landed on my back on the pavement. My head (helmeted) hit the pavement with a "clunk", leaving a couple of dings and chips in the paint at the point of impact, but no other visible damage. I called the helmet manufacturer and inquired about damage. They said that the way a fiberglass shell works is to first give, then delaminate, then crack. This is the way fiberglass serves to spread the force of the impact over a wider area. After the fiberglass has done its thing, the crushable foam liner takes care of absorbing (hopefully) the remaining impact force. They told me that the second stage of fiberglass functionality (delamination of the glass/resin layers) can occur with NO visible signs, either inside or outside of the helmet. They suggested that I send them the helmet and they would inspect it (including X-raying). I did so. They sent back the helmet with a letter stating that that they could find no damage that would compromise the ability of the helmet to provide maximum protection. (I suspect that this letter would eliminate their being able to claim prior damage to the helmet in the event I were to sue them.) The bottom line, though, is that it appears that a helmets integrity can be compromised with no visible signs. The only way to know for sure is to send it back and have it inspected. Note that some helmet manufacturers provide inspections services and some do not. Another point to consider when purchasing a lid.
I would like to keep track of X development on: - A/UX - ULTRIX - OpenWindows Currently I cannot use the newsgroup comp.windows.x and would like to use the Email based info. Thanks, Folkert Boonstra
What's your favorite body part? :-)
True enough. I put it on the ground if it's free of spooge, or directly on my head otherwise. Not exactly. The helmet has a lot less energy if your head isn't in it, and there's no lump inside to compress the liner against the shell. Is a drop off the seat enough to crack the shell? I doubt it, but you can always send it to be inspected.
Aryans who do not base their reasoning on Nazi ideology are racists... Thus spoke an American citizen in the name of Judaism. If this is Judaism, I think Judaism should be combatted as any extremist and dangerous philosophy. I suspect however that Martin Buber, Albert Einstein and other Jewish scholars would have rather converted to Christianity than stay Jews, if they would have perceived Judaism as such a perverted philosophy.
I guess it either had the top down, or the hail ripped through the top, as you could not do $10k worth of hail damage to a Miata body.
I have also been trying to complete my collection. I have an extra CCI # 16 (Communications) and a # 12 (Applications in the Arts), both in mint condition. I would like to trade for (or buy) the following: # 1, 3, 22, 23, 25, 26, 30, and 31. Thanks -David
Hey tough guy, freedom necessitates responsibility, and no freedom is absolute. BTW, to anyone who defends Arafat, read on: "Open fire on the new Jewish immigrants, be they from the Soviet Union, Ethiopia or anywhere else....I give you my instructions to use violence against the immigrants. I willjail anyone who refuses to do this." Yassir Arafat, Al-Muharar, 4/10/90 At least he's not racist! Just anti-Jewish
Well here in Australia you dial 11544 to get the number read back to you if you live in the country include the area code of the nearest capital city eg for wa 09 11544 Yours Mark
The restriction could have to do with the car being a convertible. A lot of paronoid laws were passed concerning convertibles in the 80's. These states may require greater rollover protection than the Capri affords. Thatch Harvey
Bingo. Nothing evil at all. There's no actual harm in what they're doing, only how they represent it. ----------------------------------------------------------------- .sig files are like strings ... every yo-yo's got one.
The idea of the U.S, or any other nation, taking action, i.e., military intervention, in Bosnia has not been well thought out by those who advocate such action. After the belligerants are subdued, it would require an occupation force for one or two generations. If you will stop and think about it, you will realize that these people have never forgotten a single slight or injury, they have imbibed hatred with their mother's milk. If we stop the fighting, seize and destroy all weapons, they will simply go back to killing each other with clubs. And the price for this futility will be the lives of the young men and women we send there to die. A price I am unwilling to even consider. There is no valid comparison to the Holocaust. All of the Jewish people that I have known as friends were not brought up to hate. To be wary of others, most certainly, but not to hate. And except for the Warsaw uprising, they were unarmed (and even in Warsaw badly out-gunned). It is very easy to speak of muscle when they are someone else's muscles. Suppose we do this thing, what will you tell the parents, wives, children, lovers of those we are sending to die? That they gave their lives in some noble cause? Noble cause, separating some mad dogs who will turn on them. Well, I will offer you some muscle. Suppose we tell them that they have one week (this will give foreign nationals time to leave) to cease their bloodshed. At the end of that week, bring in the Tomahawk firing ships and destroy Belgrade as they destroyed the Bosnian cities. Perhaps when some of their cities are reduced to rubble they will have a sudden attack of brains. Send in missiles by all means, but do not send in troops. By all means lift the embargo. Which killers? Do you honestly believe they are all on one side?
I have a line on a Ducati 900GTS 1978 model with 17k on the clock. Runs very well, paint is the bronze/brown/orange faded out, leaks a bit of oil and pops out of 1st with hard accel. The shop will fix trans and oil leak. They sold the bike to the 1 and only owner. They want $3495, and I am thinking more like $3K. Any opinions out there? Please email me. Thanks. It would be a nice stable mate to the Beemer. Then I'll get a jap bike and call myself Axis Motors! -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- "Tuba" (Irwin) "I honk therefore I am" CompuTrac-Richardson,Tx irwin@cmptrc.lonestar.org DoD #0826 (R75/6)
: Ford and his automobile. I need information on whether Ford is : partially responsible for all of the car accidents and the depletion of : the ozone layer. Also, any other additional information will be greatly : appreciated. Thanks. : SSSSSoooooooooooo!!!!! Its all HIS fault!! Thank God Louis Chevrolet is innocent! and that guy Diesel, HE otto feel guilty!
}start her up and rev to about 3000 rpm....I FAIL cuz I register 120 DB, }and the max allowed is 110! If I fail with these pipes, there are gonna Next time make the numbers more believable -- this is poor flamebait. 120 DB is getting close to the sound of a jumbo jet engine at takeoff revs from some small number of yards away. It is certainly right around the pain threshold for humans. No way in hell the state permits 110 DB if they have any standard at all.
Does XDM work with DECnet? I have an Ultrix machine running both TCP/IP and DECnet. I have a number of X-terminals hanging off the Ultrix host also running TCP/IP and DECnet. Presently I am using XDM for the login procedure on the X-terminals using TCP/IP. Since XDM is basically just an X-windows client, shouldn't I be able to run XDM on the DECnet protocol tower as well?
It could be one of the leukodystrophies (not adrenal, only boys get that). Surely you've been to a university pediatric neurology department. If not that is the next step. Biopsies might help, especially if peripheral nerves are also affected. There are so many of these diseases that would fit the symptoms you gave that more can't be said at this time. I agree with your surmise that it is an autosomal recessive. If so, your normal children won't have to worry too much unless they marry near relatives. Most recessive genes are rare except in inbred communities (e.g. Lithuanian Jews). -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
Yip, we had the same problem; the only fix we found was to link static some of the clients, ( btw, we used cc). :-(.
At Robert Gordon University, programming was the main (most time-consuming) start of the course. The first two years consisted of five subjects: Software Engineering (Pascal/C/UNIX), Computer Engineering (6502/6809/68000 assembler), Computer Theory (LISP/Prolog), Mathematics/Statistics and Communication Skills (How to pass interviews/intelligence tests and group discussions e.g. How to survive a helicopter crash in the North Sea). The third year (Industrial placement) was spent working for a computer company for a year. The company could be anywhere in Europe (there was a special Travel Allowance Scheme to cover the visiting costs of professors). The fourth year included Operating Systems(C/Modula-2), Software Engineering (C/8086 assembler), Real Time Laboratory (C/68000 assembler) and Computing Theory (LISP). There were also Group Projects in 2nd and 4th Years, where students worked in teams to select their own project or decide to work for an outside company (the only disadvantage being that specifications would change suddenly). In the first four years, there was a 50%:50% weighting between courseworks and exams for most subjects. However in the Honours year, this was reduced to a 30%:70% split between an Individual Project and final exams (no coursework assessment) - are all Computer Science courses like this? BTW - we started off with 22 students in our first year and were left with 8 by Honours year. Also, every course is tutored separately. Not easy trying to sleep when you are in 8 student class :-). Cheers, Michael
If you want info claiming that blacks were brought to earth 60 trillion years ago by Aliens from the plante Shabazz, I can send you literature from the Nation of Islam (Farrakhan's group) who believe this. If you want info claiming that the Holocaust never happened, I can send you info from IHR (Institute for Historical Review - David Irving's group), or just read Dan Gannon's posts on alt.revisionism. I just wanted to put Steve's post in with the company that it deserves.
Does anyone have any Russian Contacts (Space or other) or contacts in the old USSR/SU or Eastern Europe? Post them here so we all can talk to them and ask questions.. I think the cost of email is high, so we would have to keep the content to specific topics and such.. Basically if we want to save Russia and such, then we need to make contacts, contacts are a form of info, so lets get informing. == Michael Adams, nsmca@acad3.alaska.edu -- I'm not high, just jacked
IMHO, the original poster has no business soliciting diagnoses off the net, nor does Dr./Mr. O'Donnell have any business supplying same. This is one major reason real physicians avoid this newsgroup like the plague. It is also another example of the double standard: if I as a physician offered to diagnose and treat on the net, I can be sued. But people without qualifications are free to do whatever they want and disclaim it all with "I'm not a doctor." Get and keep this crap off the net. Period.
Ahem!!! Hrumph!!!! You have encurred the wrath of Glock owners. We will beat you with our hammers. Oooops, don't have any :-) Seriously. There is no difference in the safeties betweena Glock and any DA revolver. Intellectually, think of the Glock as a very high cap revolver. Ignoring stove pipes, misfeeds and all the other bonus exercises that autoloaders give you, that is. Every gun has its safe moment and its dangerous moment. If you just learn how to handle it, it becomes a lot less dangerous (to you).
test
Yes. Look up XV_DEPTH. Also, you might want to try using XView colormap segments instead of Xlib for your colormap stuff. They will probably be easier for you to use, and since you are using a TrueColor visual, you won't be losing anything compared to straight Xlib.
I'll probably get flamed for this, but when I was a kid we would go to my uncles cabin on Middle Bass Island on Lake Erie. We always came home with a nasty case of jiggers (large red bumps where the buggers had burrowed into the skin). My mother would paint the bumps with clear finger nail polish. This was repeated daily for about a week or so. The application of the polish is supposed to suffocate them as it seals of the skin. All I can say is it worked for us. One word of caution though. Putting finger nail polish on a jigger bite stings like hell. (If I do get flamed for this just put jam in my pockets and call me toast.:)
These circuits abound in most electronic project books. If you're more inclined to buy something, try Radio Shack. I think they still have a device that is designed to disconnect an answering machine when an extension line is lifted. It has LED indicators also.
You may find it useful. (This is a repost. The original sender is at the bottom.) -------------------cut here-------------------------------------------------- Article 39994 of rec.motorcycles: Path: scrumpy!bnrgate!corpgate!news.utdallas.edu!hermes.chpc.utexas.edu!cs.ute exas.edu!swrinde!mips!pacbell.com!iggy.GW.Vitalink.COM!widener!eff!ibmpc cug!pipex!unipalm!uknet!cf-cm!cybaswan!eeharvey From: eeharvey@cybaswan.UUCP (i t harvey) Newsgroups: rec.motorcycles Subject: Re: Best way to lock a bike ? Message-ID: <861@cybaswan.UUCP> Date: 15 Jul 92 09:47:10 GMT References: <1992Jul14.165538.9789@usenet.ins.cwru.edu> Lines: 84 These are the figures from the Performance Bikes lock test, taken without permission of course. The price is for comparison. All the cable locks have some sort of armour, the chain locks are padlock and chain. Each lock was tested for a maximum of ten minutes (600 secs) for each test: BJ Bottle jack CD Cutting disc BC Bolt croppers GAS Gas flame The table should really be split into immoblisers (for-a-while) and lock-to-somethings (for-a-short-while) to make comparisons. Type Weight BJ CD BC GAS Total Price (kg) (sec) (sec) (sec) (sec) (sec) (Pounds) ======================================================================== ========= 3-arm Folding .8 53 5 13 18 89 26 Cyclelok bar Abus Steel-o- Cable 1.4 103 4 20 26 153 54 flex Oxford Cable 2.0 360 4 32 82 478 38 Revolver Abus Diskus Chain 2.8 600 7 40 26 675 77 6-arm Folding 1.8 44 10 600 22 676 51 Cyclelok bar Abus Extra U-lock 1.2 600 10 120 52 782 44 Cobra Cable 6.0(!) 382 10 600 22 1014 150 (6ft) Abus closed Chain 4.0 600 11 600 33 1244 100 shackle Kryptonite U-lock 2.5 600 22 600 27 1249 100 K10 Oxford U-lock 2.0 600 7 600 49 1256 38 Magnum Disclock Disc .7 n/a 44 n/a 38 1282 43 lock Abus 58HB U-lock 2.5 600 26 600 64 1290 100 Mini Block Disc .65 n/a 51 n/a 84 1335 50 lock ======================================================================== ========= Pretty depressing reading. I think a good lock and some common sense about where and when you park your bike is the only answer. I've spent all my spare time over the last two weeks landscaping (trashing) the garden of my (and two friends with bikes) new house to accommodate our three bikes in relative security (never underestimate how much room a bike requires to manouver in a walled area :( ). Anyway, since the weekend there are only two bikes :( and no, he didn't use his Abus closed shackle lock, it was too much hassle to take with him when visiting his parents. A minimum wait of 8 weeks (if they don't decide to investigate) for the insurance company to make an offer and for the real haggling to begin. Abus are a German company and it would seem not well represented in the US but very common in the UK. The UK distributor, given in the above article is: Michael Brandon Ltd, 15/17 Oliver Crescent, Hawick, Roxburgh TD9 9BJ. Tel. 0450 73333 The UK distributors for the other locks can also given if required. Don't lose it Ian
Remember the good old days, when Hexadecimals, and even Binaries were still legal? Sure, they smoked a little blue stuff out the pipes, but I had a hex 7 that could slaughter any decimal 10 on the road. Sigh, such nostalgia! Regards, Charles DoD0,001 RZ350
Well, one reason for getting conflicting answers is that it depends on what you want the ground plane to do. A continuous conductor is a good electrostatic shield. Do you have signals on your board that need shielding rom other things? This shielding won't do much good for magnetic fields, unless you make it continuous around the circuit to be shielded, like a Faraday cage.
Your suggestion to learn something about "the perversion of Judaism" from someone you claim has experience in Israeli intelligence and the PLO is like a suggestion to learn something about the conspiracy of Sesame Street from someone with experience in fashion design and pizza-making. "Judeo-Nazism"? CPR, you're in a league with Barf Shmidling himself. You can take that as a compliment, if you see it that way.
For goodness sake if they had fired a cruise missile at the compound more people would have come out alive. It was obvious to anyone with the remotest contact with reality that such an outcome was likely (not just possible) however the fire started. As, Mr Lawnmower, you seem to have already entered your own little virtual reality I guess you can't be expected to understand things in the real universe.
: >> : >I'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons, but I would ask you if : >you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your : >alarm? I can think of worse things in the world. Glad you got out of there : >before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. : I think people have a right to kill to defend their property. Why not? Be honest: do you really care more about scum than about your car?
Hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. It is very unlikely, however, that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. Ham rigs for cars put out around 100 watts. It is possible that a 100 watt radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet away. Most TVs, stereos, and VCRs have very poor RF shielding. If you experience the problem frequently, it may be caused by a ham, CBer, or other radio operator in a base station nearby. The interference may have been caused by a radio transmitter used for other purposes, such as police, fire, etc. If you heard voices over your stereo, I think you are correct in assuming that the source is an RF transmitter. If you have frequent trouble, you may want to try the RF ferrite chokes available at Radio Shack. The interference is probably being picked up by your speaker wires, and those chokes can be installed on the wires very easily (without cutting them). Good instructions are included with the chokes. If that does not solve the problem, you may want to search your neighborhood for a radio operator. Look for antennas on the roof or car. Talk to him/her about your problem. There are things a radio operator can do to reduce interference. --
Is there some difference between the purposes behind amniocentesis and chorionic villi sampling? They sound similar to me, but are intended to detect different things?
Well, I didn't bother writing to Boxer, Feinstein or Eshoo, the terrible trio who allegly represent me. Instead, I wrote to Bentsen. My letter was not exactly strongly-worded; I simply stated that the BATF approach was immoral (military-style assault, firing into a house where they knew there were kids). Aparently, Bentsen forwarded my letter to the BATF and they responded to me directly. It follows the text of your reply pretty closely. However, I intend to send another letter directly to them, in return. This section is not in the letter that I received. The parts about ATF logo and steenking badges or their loss of the element of surprise were not included, either. The same guy with the bad handwriting apparently signed my letter, "for Richard L. Garner; Chief, Special Operations Division".
>Anyway, over the weekend, I was resting on the sofa (in between chores), >and noticed that I briefly picked up what sounded like ham radio traffic >over my stereo and television, even though both were off. Also, all the >touch sensitive lights in my house start going wacko, cycling through >their four brightness states. >I presume that some ham operator with an illegal amplifier drove past >my house (I live on a busy thoroughfare); would this be a correct presumption? >What kind of power must he be putting out to cause the effects? >The affected equipment is about 100 feet from the road... Hams are unlikely to have an illegal amp, and are also unlikely to have a "dirty" amp. Hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. It is very unlikely, however, that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. Ham rigs Not possible either. You'd need about a 300 amp alternator for just the amplifier. I can just see it. You need to slow down on a downgrade, so you hit the push to talk button. for cars put out around 100 watts. It is possible that a 100 watt radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet away. Most TVs, stereos, and VCRs have very poor RF shielding. If you experience the problem frequently, it may be caused by a ham, CBer, or other radio operator in a base station nearby. The interference may have been caused by a radio transmitter used for other purposes, such as police, fire, etc. If you heard voices over your stereo, I think you are correct in assuming that the source is an RF transmitter. If you have frequent trouble, you may want to try the RF ferrite chokes available at Radio Shack. The interference is probably being picked up by your speaker wires, and those chokes can be installed on the wires very easily (without cutting them). Good instructions are included with the chokes. If that does not solve the problem, you may want to search your neighborhood for a radio operator. Look for antennas on the roof or car. Talk to him/her about your problem. There are things a radio operator can do to reduce interference. And please remember to be friendly when approaching your local radio operator. This person may or may not be the cause of your troubles, and you'll get better cooperation and help if you assume that he is going to be helpful (most are). It was amazing the accusations that we sometimes dealt with as I grew up. We were blamed for skip (ghost pictures on the TV that occur at sunspot peaks), c.b. interferance, dead grass :), you name it. BTW, the local operator should try and help you whether or not he or she is directly responsible. It is part of being a good neighbor and that is how the FCC views it. Too bad they don't require the consumer equipment makers to take any precautions. Last, you can usually tell ham radio vs. CB. Ham operators are required to declare their call (sign) every so many minutes (no more than 10). So if you hear "This is WA1QT" or some other call starting with A, W or K and no more than 6 total characters, you heard a ham. CB'ers probably won't sign (I don't know that they're even required to) and fire/police have other private ids.
The problem with Commercial Titan is that MM has made little or no attempt to market it. They're basically happy with their government business and don't want to have to learn how to sell commercially. A secondary problem is that it is a bit big. They'd need to go after multi-satellite launches, a la Ariane, and that complicates the marketing task quite significantly. They also had some problems with launch facilities at just the wrong time to get them started properly. If memory serves, the pad used for the Mars Observer launch had just come out of heavy refurbishment work that had prevented launches from it for a year or so. There have been a few CT launches. Mars Observer was one of them. So was that stranded Intelsat, and at least one of its brothers that reached orbit properly.
As I won't be able to make the Joust this summer (Job related time conflict :'^{ ), I plan instead on going to the Rider Rally in Knoxville. I'll be leaving from Chicago. and generally plan on going down along the Indiana/Illinois border into Kentucky and then Tennessee. I would be very interested in hearing suggestions of roads/routes/areas that you would consider "must ride" while on the way to Knoxville. I can leave as early as 5/22 and need to arrive in Knoxville by 6PM on 5/25. That leaves me a pretty good stretch of time to explore on the way. By the way if anyone else is going, and would like to partner for the ride down, let me know. I'll be heading east afterward to visit family, but sure don't mind company on the ride down to the Rally. Depending on weather et al. my plan is motelling/tenting thru the trip. From the Rally I'll be heading up the Blue Ridge Parkway, then jogging into West Va (I-77) to run up 219 -> Marlington, 28 -> Petersburg, 55E -> I-81/I-66E. After this point the route is presently undetermined into Pennsylvania, New York?, and back to Chicago (by 6/6). Suggestions for these areas would be of great interest also. Many thanks for your ideas, Enjoy,
I want to connect a very small "home-made" speaker up to the headphone jack on my macintosh LC for an experiment. The dc resistance of the speaker is 1 ohm. Any ideas how I can do this safely? I think I need some kind of an impedance transformer or something.? -tony wayne@uva386.school.virginia.edu
I need help binding some value to the HOME and END keys on my keyboard. I have an rs/6000 w/ aix3.2.3ext running X11R5pl19 mit dist. I'm using a PC running eXceed for windows as my xterminal. The HOME and END keys do not send a value, and my application needs them to be defined. I used this in my Xdefaults to define the keys: varnet*VT100.Translations: #override \ <Key>Home: string("\033[8~") \n\ <Key>End: string("\033[7~") Then I xterm -name varnet. This works perfect, however the 7 and the 1 key on my keypad are also defined as \033[8~ and \033[7~. Any ideas? Help please. Thanks.
Distribution: usa Reply-To: lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu While I'm on the net bugging everyone, is there such a thing as a chip or chipset to decode Code 39 barcode? I ask for a couple of reasons -- mainly I want a reasonably compact encoding scheme to write information on magstripe cards and Code 39 appears to be about right. (If the 'right' way to do it is something else, and it's reasonably easy, can someone let me know?) I might not get a chance to reply too quickly to this or my earlier post, but I'll get to them within a couple days, I think ..
Does anyone know what causes the ever-growing black border around the edges of my computer screen? The growth has been gradual so I don't know how long it's taken to get this bad. I have a 19" DEC (?) color monitor, maybe five years old, and the black border is about 1.1 inches on the left and right sides, about 1.75 inches on the bottom and negligible at the top of the screen. The only controls are brightness knob, contrast knob, deGauss switch, and power switch. Is there anything to be done, or are the monitor's days numbered?
Anyone know how an application can retrieve the name of the font from an application given an XFontStruct *? Would XGetFontProperty work if I passed XA_FONT_NAME? anyone know details of this? Thanks in advance. Brian
Great, the first advantage of cheap coax, I've ever heard. Cheers Robert (HB9NBY)
Surprise surprise, different people react differently to different things. One slightly off the subject case in point. My brother got stung by a bee. I know he is allergic to bee stings, but that his reaction is severe localized swelling, not anaphylactic shock. I could not convince the doctors of that, however, because that's not written in their little rule book. I would not be surprised in the least to find out the SOME people have bad reactions to MSG, including headaches, stomachaches and even vomiting. Not that the stuff is BAD or POISON and needs to be banned, but people need to be aware that it can have a bad effect on SOME people. Lone Wolf
Or little children at the market. (Or is that the Irish? Hard to keep all you not-really-English types straight.) --
Steve Dyer points out that Sharen was probably thinking of Sulfites. But the question still stands.
As I heard the story, before Albert came up the the theory o'relativity and warped space, nobody could account for Mercury's orbit. It ran a little fast (I think) for simple Newtonian physics. With the success in finding Neptune to explain the odd movments of Uranus, it was postulated that there might be another inner planet to explain Mercury's orbit. It's unlikely anything bigger than an asteroid is closer to the sun than Mercury. I'm sure we would have spotted it by now. Perhaps some professionals can confirm that.
If a 'dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the sky. Did you know that the word 'Karabag' itself is a 'Turkish' name? Before 1827, before the Russians and their 'zavalli kole' Armenians, drove all the Turks/Muslims out, it was a Turkish majority town. Well, anyway, it is not surprising that Armenians also collaborated with the Nazis. "Wholly opportunistic the Dashnaktzoutun have been variously pro-Nazi, pro-Russia, pro-Soviet Armenia, pro-Arab, pro-Jewish, as well as anti-Jewish, anti-Zionist, anti-Communist, and anti-Soviet - whichever was expedient."[1] [1] John Roy Carlson (Arthur Derounian), 'Cairo to Damascus,' Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1951, p. 438. As a dear friend put it, the Tzeghagrons (Armenian Racial Patriots) was the youth organization of the Dashnaktzoutun. It was based in Boston (where ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism Triangle is located) but had followers in Armenian colonies all over the world. Literally Tzeghagron means 'to make a religion of one's race.' The architect of the Armenian Racial Patriots was Garegin Nezhdeh, a Nazi Armenian who became a key leader of collaboration with Hitler in World War II. In 1933, he had been invited to the United States by the Central Committee of the Dashnaktzoutun to inspire and organize the American-Armenian youth. Nezhdeh succeeded in unifying many local Armenian youth groups in the Tzeghagrons. Starting with 20 chapters in the initial year, the Tzeghagrons grew to 60 chapters and became the largest and most powerful Nazi Armenian organization. Nezhdeh also provided the Tzeghagrons with a philosophy: "The Racial Religious beliefs in his racial blood as a deity. Race above everything and before everything. Race comes first."[1] [1] Quoted in John Roy Carlson (real name Arthur Derounian), "The Armenian Displaced Persons," in 'Armenian Affairs,' Winter, 1949-50, p. 19, footnote. Now wait, there is more. THE GRUESOME extent of February's killings of Azeris by Armenians in the town of Hojali is at last emerging in Azerbaijan - about 600 men, women and children dead in the worst outrage of the four-year war over Nagorny Karabakh. The figure is drawn from Azeri investigators, Hojali officials and casualty lists published in the Baku press. Diplomats and aid workers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates. The 25 February attack on Hojali by Armenian forces was one of the last moves in their four-year campaign to take full control of Nagorny Karabakh, the subject of a new round of negotiations in Rome on Monday. The bloodshed was something between a fighting retreat and a massacre, but investigators say that most of the dead were civilians. The awful number of people killed was first suppressed by the fearful former Communist government in Baku. Later it was blurred by Armenian denials and grief-stricken Azerbaijan's wild and contradictory allegations of up to 2,000 dead. The State Prosecuter, Aydin Rasulov, the cheif investigator of a 15-man team looking into what Azerbaijan calls the "Hojali Disaster", said his figure of 600 people dead was a minimum on preliminary findings. A similar estimate was given by Elman Memmedov, the mayor of Hojali. An even higher one was printed in the Baku newspaper Ordu in May - 479 dead people named and more than 200 bodies reported unidentified. This figure of nearly 700 dead is quoted as official by Leila Yunusova, the new spokeswoman of the Azeri Ministry of Defence. FranCois Zen Ruffinen, head of delegation of the International Red Cross in Baku, said the Muslim imam of the nearby city of Agdam had reported a figure of 580 bodies received at his mosque from Hojali, most of them civilians. "We did not count the bodies. But the figure seems reasonable. It is no fantasy," Mr Zen Ruffinen said. "We have some idea since we gave the body bags and products to wash the dead." Mr Rasulov endeavours to give an unemotional estimate of the number of dead in the massacre. "Don't get worked up. It will take several months to get a final figure," the 43-year-old lawyer said at his small office. Mr Rasulov knows about these things. It took him two years to reach a firm conclusion that 131 people were killed and 714 wounded when Soviet troops and tanks crushed a nationalist uprising in Baku in January 1990. Those nationalists, the Popular Front, finally came to power three weeks ago and are applying pressure to find out exactly what happened when Hojali, an Azeri town which lies about 70 miles from the border with Armenia, fell to the Armenians. Officially, 184 people have so far been certified as dead, being the number of people that could be medically examined by the republic's forensic department. "This is just a small percentage of the dead," said Rafiq Youssifov, the republic's chief forensic scientist. "They were the only bodies brought to us. Remember the chaos and the fact that we are Muslims and have to wash and bury our dead within 24 hours." Of these 184 people, 51 were women, and 13 were children under 14 years old. Gunshots killed 151 people, shrapnel killed 20 and axes or blunt instruments killed 10. Exposure in the highland snows killed the last three. Thirty-three people showed signs of deliberate mutilation, including ears, noses, breasts or penises cut off and eyes gouged out, according to Professor Youssifov's report. Those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of those believed to have been killed, Mr Rasulov said. Files from Mr Rasulov's investigative commission are still disorganised - lists of 44 Azeri militiamen are dead here, six policemen there, and in handwriting of a mosque attendant, the names of 111 corpses brought to be washed in just one day. The most heartbreaking account from 850 witnesses interviewed so far comes from Towfiq Manafov, an Azeri investigator who took a helicopter flight over the escape route from Hojali on 27 February. "There were too many bodies of dead and wounded on the ground to count properly: 470-500 in Hojali, 650-700 people by the stream and the road and 85-100 visible around Nakhchivanik village," Mr Manafov wrote in a statement countersigned by the helicopter pilot. "People waved up to us for help. We saw three dead children and one two-year-old alive by one dead woman. The live one was pulling at her arm for the mother to get up. We tried to land but Armenians started a barrage against our helicopter and we had to return." There has been no consolidation of the lists and figures in circulation because of the political upheavals of the last few months and the fact that nobody knows exactly who was in Hojali at the time - many inhabitants were displaced from other villages taken over by Armenian forces. THE INDEPENDENT, London, 12/6/'92 Serdar Argic
Well, it's not an FTP site, but I got an 800 number for Signetics BBS. The Signetics BBS contain some pretty good items for the 8051. I am currently using the following files which I downloaded from them: ml-asm51.zip MetaLink's 8051 family macro assembler bootstrp.zip Hex file Load-and-Go using 8051 uart (allows you to download your program into a RAM and then execute from RAM. Works great. Tell me if you want more details). tutor51.zip TSR for 8051 feature help screens They have lots of coding examples, assemblers, and misc. tools. Signetics BBS numbers are: (800) 451-6644 (408) 991-2406 Have fun, -- Mont Pierce
This might a real wierd idea or maybe not.. I have seen where people have blown up ballons then sprayed material into them that then drys and makes hard walls... Why not do the same thing for a space station.. Fly up the docking rings and baloon materials and such, blow up the baloons, spin then around (I know a problem in micro gravity) let them dry/cure/harden? and cut a hole for the docking/attaching ring and bingo a space station.. Of course the ballons would have to be foil covered or someother radiation protective covering/heat shield(?) and the material used to make the wals would have to meet the out gasing and other specs or atleast the paint/covering of the inner wall would have to be human safe.. Maybe a special congrete or maybe the same material as makes caplets but with some changes (saw where someone instea dof water put beer in the caplet mixture, got a mix that was just as strong as congret but easier to carry around and such..) Sorry for any spelling errors, I missed school today.. (grin).. Why musta space station be so difficult?? why must we have girders? why be confined to earth based ideas, lets think new ideas, after all space is not earth, why be limited by earth based ideas??
> most of their leaders are stupid, and/or not independent, and/or It's not relevant whether I agree with you or not, there is some reasonable thought in what you say here an I appreciate your point. However, I would make 2 remarks: - you forgot about hate, and this is not only at government level. - It's not only 'arab' governments. Now, about taugh talk and arrogance, we are adults, aren't we ? Do you listen to tough talk of american politicians ? or switch the channel ? I would rather be 'intimidated' by some dummy 'talking tough' then by a bomb ready to blow under my seat in B747.
Hi! Sorry, it's german, but I hope you understand it. Uebertragung der Schaltplan-Daten (*.SCH) in die Board-Daten (*.JOB): PADS-LOGIC: In/Out Reports Net List Select PADS-PCB Net List Output file name -> filename angeben PADS-PCB: In/Out Ascii In Ascii input file name -> filename angeben Errors aoutput file name -> filename angeben, nicht CR Jetzt sind alle Bauteile auf einem Haufen und muessen mit Move verteilt werden. Viele Gruesse
} The vast majority get through life without ever having to } own, use or display a firearm. } ... } } Given society } as we now experience it - it seems safer to get rid of } as many guns as possible. Considering that the uses include self defense, hunting, target shooting and collecting, I don't buy the notion that the vast majority of people don't "own, use or display a firearm". But let's say your contention is true. What's the point of "get[ting] rid of as many guns as possible", if they weren't being used anyway?
Or, how about the Clint Eastwood line in "Pink Cadillac" - "I believe in gun control. If there's a gun around, I wanna be the one controlling it."
Almost all window managers (twm, mwm, olwm and their derivates) support escape sequences for it. For your purpose put following into your .login (if you're using csh or tcsh), for sh you have to modify it. if ( "$term" == "xterm" ) then echo "^[]2;${LOGNAME}@${HOST}^G^[]1;${HOST}^G" endif Note, ^[ stands for <Esc>, in vi you can enter it by pressing Ctrl-V and the <Esc>. Same for ^G, it means Ctrl-G. In vi: press Ctrl-V and then Ctrl-G. The first sequence puts the string into the title bar the second in the icon. BTW, you can also put the current working directory in the title bar if you make an alias for cd: alias cd 'cd \!* ; echo "^[]2;${LOGNAME}@${HOST}: ${cwd}^G"' greetings, Thomas
What in blazes is going on with Wayne Matson and gang down in Alabama? I also heard an unconfirmed rumor that Aerospace Ambassadors have disappeared. Can anyone else confirm??
I don't understand this last statement about the '90Vanagon...Our '90Vanagon Owner's Manual RECOMMENDS 20W50 !!
Sorry, ARF - you dog, That news was suppressed because the Israeli national volleyball team repeatedly spiked it. Let this be a lesson to others not to invoke the wrath of sports nuts. (Brits lead the way in this regard, with ~220 casualties in the last 2 years.) Anyway, Yigal would never sue. His life is (presumably) so pristine that its most intimate details could be revealed without harm to anyone. Might even be good instruction for some people I can think of.
Hi boys and girls. I just bought a Beemer R80GS and realized abruptly that I am a grad student. I first sold my truck yesterday but I need to sell my Zephyr too. If I can sell it this month, great ... insurance and tags both run out in a couple of weeks. Otherwise I'll tag and insure it and see what happens. It's a very sweet bike. 6100 miles, almost all highway (AZ-WY-CO last summer, plus some great rides between here and the Border. Purchased new exactly one year ago (Apr '92), it's a '90 model. It has a good fairing and a luggage rack. Red; very clean. Perfect maintenance, no bullshit. I'll spare any further details other than to say (1) I want to keep it, and (2) somebody 5'7" +/- 5" will fit it like a charm. Not a bike for big people, but not a small bike. Standard, upright positioning and good-looking. Smooth power, great brakes, good Karma. - Erik
It sounds like you got the cam timing off..........
Well, I dropped by the library yesterday, and picked up back copies of the National Crime Survey (1986-1990) in an effort to examine what it said about self-defense with a firearm. I haven't ground through much in the way of numbers yet, but a couple of things jumped out at me. First only 1986 and 1987 specify the type of weapon used in self defense. 1988, 1989, and 1990 refer only to "weapon." The second is that while assaults rose about 3% from 1986 to 1987, w/gun defenses reported *fell* by almost 25%. Unless there's an explanation for this, I'm tempted to mark it as a reporting problem, and as such going ahead with any examination of the numbers would be a waste of time. Anybody have an idea what might have cause a real difference, and not just a reporting difference? The survey doesn't appear to have changed significantly between 1986 and 1987.
Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Right Violations in Azerbaijan #014 Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh +----------------------------------------------------------+ | | | I asked, "What's going on?" He says, "What's the matter, | | can't you see, they've overturned a car and they're | | killing Armenians!" | | | +----------------------------------------------------------+ DEPOSITION OF ZAVEN ARMENAKOVICH BADASIAN Born 1942 Employed Sumgait Bulk Yarn Plant Resident at Building 34, Apartment 33 Microdistrict No. 12 Sumgait [Azerbaijan] On February 27 my wife and I went to Baku to go shopping and returned to Sumgait at around five in the evening. We ran into one of my relatives at the bus station and got to talking. A lot of people had gathered not far away, near the store. Well at first we didn't know what was happening, and then a fellow I know comes up to me, an Azerbaijani guy, and says, "What are you standing here for? Go home immediately!" I asked, "What's going on?" He says, "What's the matter, can't you see, they've overturned a car and they're killing Armenians!" He helped me catch a cab and we got home safely. We sat at home for two days. During that time a gang of bandits came into our courtyard. But the neighbors wouldn't let them in the building. There were about 80 of them. They had sticks and pieces of armatures in their hands. They were shouting something, but you couldn't understand it. It wasn't one voice or two, all of them were shouting in a chorus. They turned toward Building 35. They went up to the third _floor, and we see that they're breaking glass and throwing things out the window. After a while they come out the entryway: one has a pair of jeans in his hands, another has a tape recorder, and a third a guitar. They went on toward the auto parts store. We had to save ourselves. After midnight on March 1 we went to hide at School No. 33, which is in Microdistrict 13. There were two other Armenian families there with us. There were 13 of us altogether. Out of all of them I had only known Ernest before, he had moved to Sumgait from Kirovabad. The Azerbaijani guard at the school let us in. At first he didn't want to, but there was nowhere else for us to go. We had to plead with him and talk him into it. We were told that on that day, the 1st, there would be an attack on our microdistrict. We went upstairs to a classroom on the second floor. On the city radio station they announced three telephone numbers that could be used to summon assistance or communicate anything important. I called one of them and the First Secretary of the Sumgait City Party Committee answered. I asked him for assistance. I say, "We're in School No. 33, we need to be evacuated." Well he says, "Got it, wait there, I'm sending out help now." I know his voice. The First Secretary had been to our plant, I had spoken with him personally. When I called he said, "Muslimzade here." About two hours after the call we heard shouts near the school. We looked out the window and about 100 to 120 people were outside saying, "Armenians, come out, we're here to get you." They have clubs, axes, and armature shafts in their hands. The guard sat there with us, and asked, "Where should I go?" I say, "If your life is of any value to you you'll go down there and say that the Armenians were here and that they left." That's what he did. He went down there and said, "The Armenians were here," he said, "I let them out the back door, they went that way." And pointed with his hand. And with shouts and noise the mob set off in the direction he had pointed. So the assistance we had been promised did come. They sent us help, all right! Instead of sending real soldiers he had sent his own. I am positive that Muslimzade did that. No one had seen us entering the school, no one knew that we were there. In any case, we stayed at the school until seven in the morning, and no soldiers of any sort came to our aid. In the morning we went to my relative's in Microdistrict 1, and the soldiers took us to the SK club from there. The club was jammed with people, and there were lots of people ahead of us--there was no space available. One small boy, about three months old, died right in my arms. There wasn't a single doctor, nothing. The boy was uninjured, there were no wounds or bruises on him. He was just very ill. They gave him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, they did everything they could under the circumstances, but were unable to save him. And his mother and father, a young Armenian couple, were right there, on the floor ... I searched for a spot for us in the SK, we have a small child of our own, I wanted to find a room or something to put my family in. I went up to the third floor, there were a lot of soldiers up there, bandaged, with canes, limping, with their heads broken open. They were a terrible sight. Young guys, all of them. There were a lot of bandaged Armenians, too. Everyone had been beaten, everyone was crying, wailing, and calling for help. I think that the City Party Committee ignored us completely. True, there was a snack bar: a sausage was 30 kopeks or 40 kopeks, a package of cookies that cost 26 kopeks was being sold for 50, a bottled soft drink cost a ruble . . . But there was no way to get the things any cheaper. I met my old uncle, Aram Mikhailovich, there. He saw me and tears welled up in his eyes. My whole life he had told me that we were friendly peoples, that we worked together, he always had Azerbaijanis over at his house. And now he saw me and there was nothing he could say, he just cried. You can understand his feelings, of course. April 8, 1988 Yerevan - - - reference - - - [1] _The Sumgait Tragedy; Pogroms against Armenians in Soviet Azerbaijan, Volume I, Eyewitness Accounts_, edited by Samuel Shahmuradian, forward by Yelena Bonner, 1990, published by Aristide D. Caratzas, NY, pages 185-186
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: conf:mideast.levant Rights of children violated by the State of Israel (selected articles of the IV Geneva Convention of 1949) ------------------------------------------------------------- Article 31: No physical or moral coercion shall be exercised against protected persons, in particular to obtain information from them or from third parties. Article 32: The High Contracting Parties specifically agree that each of them is prohibited from taking any measure of such a character as to cause the physical suffering or extermination of protected persons in their hands. This prohibition applies not only to murder, torture, corporal punishment (...) but also to any other measures of brutality whether applied by civilian or military agents. Article 33: No protected person may be punished for an offence he or she has not personally committed. Collective penalties and likewise measures of intimidation or of terrorism are prohibited. Article 34: Taking of hostages is prohibited. Article 49: Individual or mass forcible transfers, as well as deportations of protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the Occupying Power or to that of any other country, occupied or not, are prohibited, regardless of their motive. Article 50: The Occupying Power shall, with the cooperation of the national and local authorities, facilitate the proper working of all institutions devoted to the care and education of children. Article 53: Any destruction by the Occupying Power of real or personal property belonging individually or collectively to private persons, or to the State, or to other public authorities, or to social or cooperative organizations, is prohibited, except where such destruction is rendered absolutely necessary by military operations.
There's only one car that really fits your needs. It's spelled:
Well, I've now been working on this DAMNED stepper controller board since 9pm. It's now 6am... I'm pissed off. Period. Alright, I can drive the steppers through the 3479P's; no problem (that's with the 6-wire steppers, 2 to +, and the other 4 are the phase lines). Problem 1: I've got some 4 wire steppers. I put the darkest line to + and the other 3 to the 3479P... worked, kinda. Tried it with a printer stepper (moves the head back and forth, 4 wires), didn't work too well. It would shift back and forth (use something like a 4017 instead?) Also I've been trying to get a bunch of NPN's to work with it... NO LUCK... tried PNP's, still NO LUCK!!! I don't know if I'm cursed on this or what, but I feel my brain slowly frying with the thought of STEPPER ... ARGGG!!! I don't know what's wrong with the transistor hook-up (to-220 pkg type), also tryed the 2n2222-pkg type... no luck. I'm going to try getting some z's, and I hope you can help me with this problem. If someone can please help me with this soon, it would be greatly appreciated... Thanks. _________________________________________________ Inspiration | ___ | comes to | \ o baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca | those who | ( ^ ) baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca | seek the | /-\ =] Baden de Bari [= | unknown. | | -------------------------------------------------
So? Look in the trunk some time. Heck - look at the dash. That funny thing attached with a quick-release is a gun. The ones in the trunk are "better". (I don't have numbers for Chicago, but Philadelphia police cars carried multiple automatic weapons and thousands of rounds as standard issue in the 60s.) What is the nature of this disadvantage? If the cop can shoot, 6 rounds will do the job against a single opponent (especially since the cop has guaranteed backup). If the "gang member" can shoot, the extra rounds don't help. The only time this difference can matter is if neither can shoot, and cops aren't supposed to be throwing lead around like that. BTW - most cops carry multiple guns. You're not supposed to know about the second, third, and so on. How do "we" know that they were gang members and not undercover cops or even law-abiding menacing minorities. BTW - Why the sneer quotes? They were actually practicing Then the extra rounds won't make any difference, so why is it an issue? -andy
The xgolf program was an April Fool's joke <sigh>.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ I've heard many Turks say this and it surpises me that they don't read about it.Remember the Treaty of Sevres-as a consequence of being in the Axis powers in WWI.The Turks UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW were supposed to look after their minorities ie. Greeks,Armenians,Kurds(I must say Turk-Kurd relations are improving slightly with time) and not pose a threat to Turkey's neighbours. The Turks blatantly rejected this treaty(the Germans grudgingly accepted Versailles which was a million times worse for the health and pride of the German people).The Greeks who had an army there,were there with BRITISH and FRENCH backing to enforce Sevres. In possibly the first example of appeasement the Young Turk government managed screwed the Treaty of Laussane out of the weak allies,this was after the Greek forces were were destroyed at Smyrna.When this occurred incidently, FRENCH warships were in the harbour and many Greeks trying escape swam to the FRENCH warships and climbed aboard only to get their arms cut off by the FRENCH as they clawed they're way up the sides of the ships. Libertae,egalitae,fraternatae.
assuming yours is a non turbo MR2, the gruffness is characteristic of a large inline 4 that doesn't have balance shafts. i guess toyota didn't care about "little" details like that when they can brag about the mid engine configuration and the flashy styling. myself, i automatically cross out any car from consideration (or recommendation) which has an inline 4 larger than 2 liters and no balance shafts.. it is a good rule of thumb to keep in mind if you ever want a halfway decent engine. if the noise really bugs you, there is nothing else that you can do except to sell it and get a V6.
Zero to very fast very quickly... lastest rumor is 115 hp at the rear wheel, handles like a dream in a straight line to 80-100, and then gets a tad upset according to a review in Cycle World... cornering, er well, you can't have everything... Seriously, handling is probably as good as the big standards of the early 80's but not compareable to whats state of the art these days. All this gleemed from reviews and discussions with owners. I too lust after this bike.
Hi Folks, I recently bought a 1981 Mercury Capri (my first car ever!). I have noticed a few problems with the car : 1. It gives very low gas mileage (something like 11 miles / gallon ; I hear other car owners speak of gas-mileage figures like 25 miles/gallon (wow!) etc.). 2. When I start the car, it goes into high idling (something like 1500 (or is it 15000 ?) rpm. After driving 4 or 5 miles, it comes down to 300 (or 3000?) rpm. I would like to know if there is any way by which I can fix these problems. Or is it natural for an old car like this ? (it has done about 117,000 miles). Someone suggested that I change/rebuild/ recondition the carburettor. I am not prepared to do it unless I am sure it will fix the problem. And yes, I got the car tuned-up recently (within the last 200 miles or so). Please let me know if you have any suggestions. Please respond by email since I don't scan this newsgroup regularly. Thanks. Regards, --Sudhi. -- Sira Gopinath Sudhindranath. email : sudhi@ucs.usl.edu.
Hello everybody, I am searching for (business) information of Motif applications, to create a TOP-30 of most used WordProcessors, Spreadsheets, Drawing programs, Schedulers and Fax programs, etc.. Please mail me all your information or references. I will summaries the results on this media. Thank you in advance, Anton de Ruiter.
I have the ARRL Handbook for the Radio AMateur, and I'm getting the Solid STate Design for the Radio Amateur.
This is REALLY STUPID nitpicking. Capitalization rules in the late 18th century were quite different from today, and what was posted matches current capitalization rules. We also don't make 's' look like 'f' and other such things done in the late seventeen hundreds. In the original Constitution, "militia", "arms", etc. were capitalized simply because they were nouns. This is also done currently in German. There is no special significance to these words simply because they are capitalized. The capitalization denotes no special emphasis. -Pete Zakel (phz@cadence.com or ..!uunet!cadence!phz)
[This is a co-authored report from two of us who were there.] Gun Owners Action League, our state rifle association, started the day with a rally in the secluded courtyard behind the statehouse at 9:30. It was looking sparse (about 40 people) until the speaker began, whereupon about 120 more people followed the loudspeakers from wherever they had been lost, and filled out the area something proud. Mike Yacino of GOAL spoke. One of his best throwaway lines was to remind us that all of us holders of carry permits there had been checked and certified clear of all crimes by the state; while the people in the Statehouse behind us only had to be certified clean of "election fraud" to hold their jobs. Nancy Snow and Amos Hamburger were busy handing out ID buttons and sheets describing all the bills to be presented at the hearings, and telling people where to find their own representatives (and in too many cases, who they were). Mike warned us that the committee was going to suspend its rules and discuss a bill that hadn't made it onto the official list. It seems a delegation of students from Simon's Rock of Bard College (alma mater of Wayne Lo, who shot up the place with an SKS late last year) was being bussed in to testify for a bill to ban all sales of firearms or ammo to anyone who is not a state resident. The hearings were originally scheduled in the (large) Gardner Auditorium at 10:30, but that had been pre-empted by the Governor's hearings on the Framingham Eight (women in prison for killing abusive husbands, and seeking release). So we had until 1:30 to buttonhole our representatives, after which we would be squashed into an inadequate hearing room. One of my representatives' staffers was somewhat offensively smarmy. He said, "Oh, it must be gun hearings day again! The gun lobby is always so organized every year." I got a little pissed, and replied, "I'm not from the gun lobby -- I'm from your district." At 12:30, your second reporter arrived in time to notice a demonstration going on in front of the statehouse (where the pro-gunners weren't). Randy Price from the TV News was there, in his mirror reflective shades, talking to one of the anti-gun types, and several Simon's Rock anti-gun "close-the-loophole" protestors. (Earlier, Randy had covered the GOAL rally.) The room we had been assigned seated about 50. Remember, there were about 160 gun owners there, plus another 20-30 students and teachers from Bard. One of us had already reserved a seat; the other never got closer than the atrium outside -- and there was a crowd behind HIM. A cop took up station at the entrance and prevented the rest of the crowd from coming in. Soon after the debate started, a loudspeaker was set up outside in the hall for the benefit of everyone else. Everyone who was there (inside and outside) got to sign up on a sheet saying what their position was on which bills. Most of us signed up to "support GOAL's position" on "all bills." First, because of their time constraints, public officials got to testify. And first up was the bill that nobody had seen (the students had some curfew, I guess). Currently, Massachusetts law allows a non-resident to purchase long guns or ammo from a local dealer provided he complies with the laws of his own state. Previously, the law was similar, but applied only to non-residents from states adjoining Massachusetts. The Simon's Rock folks called the current law a "loophole" and wanted it closed. Two of their reps spoke about Wayne Lo and his "SKS assault rifle." The second one, Hodgekiss, a co-sponsor, had done his homework so well that he kept confusing Montana (Wayne Lo's home state) with Missouri, and became belligerent when about five gun owners in the gallery corrected him after his second muff. Carr, from Gloucester, claimed that the new bill would put the law back the way it was, but he was lying: the new bill allows purchases by non-residents of adjoining states ONLY if they have licensing in their own state "as strong as" that in Massachusetts. Since none of them do, that's that. Some of the things these two said were really offensive. "In some of these other states, anyone can buy a gun as long as he's breathing!" (Oooooo!) "We have some very, very good gun laws in Massachusetts; if only the other states would adopt the same type of laws, we wouldn't be having this situation -- but they won't." (Naughty, naughty!) Next up was Boston city councilman Albert "Dapper" O'Neill. He was there to testify pro-gun, but in some ways he was a liability. He's reasonably elderly and tends to wander and repeat himself, plus he's almost a caricature of a law-n-order politician. He badmouthed the ACLU, said violent criminals should be executed, and that if he were judge, he'd give arrestees their "last rights" (pun intended) on the spot (at which many of the gun owners applauded, which bothered me.) He said that all the proposed gun restrictions were a step in the right direction -- for the criminals. He said this FOUR times :-( Two of the bills under consideration would allow police to rescind a CCW or FID, and confiscate all your guns, if someone had filed a restraining order against you. (Note that the filing of a restraining order requires no warrant, no hearing, no evidence, and no conviction -- just an accusation.) Senator Barrett of Reading testified in favor of it, and patronized the pro-gunners there several times by saying, "I'm sure all the gun owners here will agree with me that we have to get these weapons out of the hands of people that our courts have convicted." I haven't seen such a disgustingly disingenuous performance since Nixon whined that he wasn't a crook. Barrett also spoke in favor of the bill making the FID card renewable every five years, instead of permanent as it is now. The stated purpose is to remove FID cards from those who have become ineligible. "Revenue has nothing to do with it." (Yeah, right.) Apparently, some congressmen think we're stupid enough to swallow the argument that it's preferable to process 1.6 million renewals every cycle in the vague hope of catching a recent felon than to simply take the goddamn card away from a criminal at conviction time. As usual, hassle the law-abiding instead of the crook. The two co-chairs of the committee were Rep. Caron and Sen. Jujuga. Jujuga didn't say much (he was a co-sponsor of both "restraining order" bills) but Caron struck me as a sharp guy that wouldn't let any bad logic or lies on the part of either side to go unchallenged. (He was a co-sponsor of one of the "restraining order" bills as well.) One of the younger reps on the committee (forgot his name) was vociferously pro-gun, somewhat embarrassingly so. His heart was in the right place, but his arguments seemed to be confined to, "every year it's the same damn thing, you come in here with this crap..." It's nice to have a friend on the committee, but he could have been more effective. At about 3:00, it was clear that the hall-jam couldn't continue. Someone came out of another meeting hall and yelled at the cop because the loudspeaker was disturbing their meeting, so the loudspeaker was disconnected. So they found a bigger hall upstairs. One of us had to leave to catch his charter bus, and so missed the "public" testimony; the other got a seat this time. Caron began by talking about how he got his FID 16 years ago, left the state, and then returned without notifying them of his address change. He complained that the state record system was not up-to-date and that his PD back in his city of birth still thought he lived there. Great quote: "If you purchase a gun today, it will not get into the state computer system until 1999." (This was also an argument he used against the renewable FID card.) Testimony was heard from several "battered women," one of whom had been attacked by some guy in his 20's who had an FID card because he got it when he was 15 or thereabouts. They used a lot of emotion and said how they were scared of these men. A staffer of Attorney General Harshbarger testified in favor of this anti-gun bill, saying how 50,000 restraining orders were granted last year, and how these women needed to be protected. Caron noted that a restraining order was granted for 10 days, and then a hearing was held to determine whether the order would be extended to a year. He asked whether she would be satisfied if the FID were revoked at the time of this hearing rather than after the initial issuance of the FID. She gave some long rambling circumlocution in response. Then testimony against the bill was heard. Mike Yacino (who looks something like Einstein) got up and made the point that restraining orders were issued on too little evidence, that judges like to issue restraining orders just to let things cool off no matter who they think is right (man or woman), and that the hearings for restraining orders are lightning sessions with little time to consider facts. Atty. Karen McNutt spoke with him a few times during his testimony. Other pro-gunners got up to testify. One said he had had to file a restraining order against a tenant to clear her out, and that she countered by filing one against him! He noted that this would have allowed the state to confiscate his guns if the new bill became law. One of the junior reps noted that "this is America" and we have to be certain that individual rights are respected. Senator Jujuga reiterated this, saying that "people who abuse smaller people can go to Hell as far as I care, but we have to be careful about equating conviction with a restraining order." (Point and match, Senator.) Another pro-gunner got up and testified that he didn't know his citizenship "expired every 5 years," and that a driver's license was a privilege, not a right like the right to keep and bear arms. A third got up and said the problem was with the criminal justice system, and argued in favor of a death penalty bill and public hangings. Senator Jujuga said he had himself tried to get a death penalty bill passed, and joking responded that he, too, favored public hangings. The speaker then responded, "I'll make you a deal. You get me the rope, and I'll tie the noose." Next came public testimony on the Simon's Rock bill. A teacher testified that she had been the teacher of Wayne Lo, and that "he wouldn't have been able to shoot people inside a building while he was outside" without his evil gun. She said that the "loophole" should be closed to prevent something like this from "ever happening again". Four or five other kids testified in favor of this bill, one of spilling tears for the good legislators. One of the students actually shot by Wayne Lo was also there. Many of them had T shirts on, saying, "As long as one person can buy a gun in anger, none of us are safe -- support gun control." The committee was reluctant to grill or correct the kids, except for Caron, who corrected one student who had claimed that anyone could apply for an FID. "Only residents can get FID's," he said. (How much do you want to bet that this kid had no idea he had been conned into testifying for a bill that would cut out-of-staters completely off?) Yacino and McNutt spoke again, this time noting that the bill as written would affect both ammo AND ALL guns possessed by out-of-staters. Karen also noted that hunters in CT, NH, and VT could be put away for a year if they wandered across the MA boundary somewhere in the woods and got challenged by game wardens. Yacino underscored the fact that Lo COULD have gotten an FID as a resident student -- and, hell, even an CCW, as he had NO criminal or mental record. One junior rep was upset that it would take MA residents longer to buy a gun than out-of-staters, and thought it was "elitist". Another (Caron?) said that we need the protection of preventing non-residents from buying without an FID because only two other states in the union had "FID-type" cards, so complying with all the laws of one's home state was "not enough." One pro-gun speaker replied that this resembled a mother watching her son in a marching band and exclaiming, "Everyone's out of step but Johnny!" All the Bard College people were filing out as the pro-gun testimony for this bill was made, and thus only pro-gunners were around when the other bills came under consideration. The main bills remaining (and GOAL's position) were: o H.4375 and four others: Notify police chiefs so they can pull licenses when a holder is convicted (strongly supported) o H.1732: Require trigger locks on all handguns sold (opposed) o H.962: Require trigger locks on all loaded firearms (strongly opposed) o H.1350: Allow every municipality to enact their own gun laws (opposed) o H.1731: Fund bullet-proof vests for municipal police (supported) o S.1097: State Constitutional Amendment for the RKBA (supported) o Several on police discretion in the issuance of FID cards (opposed) o Several altering non-resident license conditions (supported) o H.1135: Ban damn near all guns everywhere in the state (guess!) Some of these took only 30 seconds to consider, as the remaining pro-gunners raised hands in unison either for or against them. Mike Yacino noted that, besides the danger in screwing with a trigger lock on a loaded gun, that bill would make it illegal for a licensee to carry his concealed handgun unless it were locked. Caron blew right through H.1350 when he saw that we opposed it. Again, he brought up the state's archaic records capability and said, "This would create hundreds of different licensing systems." The session ran late -- since it was the last scheduled hearing, it could not be adjourned until everyone who wanted to had testified. It ended at about 6:30. --
I was having a look through a couple of components catalogues when I came across a range of Peltier Effect heat pumps intended for cooling components. For those who have not heard of this effect, you put a current through one of these devices, and it pumps heat from one side to the other. Reverse the current and you reverse the effect. I think a temperature difference can give you an EMF as well. Anyway, it struck me that you could make a nice cool/hot box for picnics with one of these, a power regulator, a thermostat and a couple of heat sinks. The biggest device can shift 60W with an efficiency of 80-90%, which ain't bad (although it would flatten my car battery in about half an hour). Unfortunately the catalogue didn't list anything more than the basic specs as a heat pump. I imagine that you would get a back-EMF as the temperature gradient across the device increases. If so, presumably its power decreases as the back-EMF increases, until eventually we have a steady state with no current being consumed (assuming no leakage). If so, then the final temperature difference between the two sides could be set by the supply voltage and nothing more (although that would be a lousy way to control it). What I would like to know is: 1: Are the above guesses correct? 2: What is the open-circuit thermal resistance of a typical device? (I just want to be sure that my coolbox is not going to get warm too fast when I unplug it) 3: How does a Peltier Effect heat pump actually work? It looks like magic! 4: Why don't they use these things in domestic fridges/freezers? Thanks in advance, Paul.
I've used X11R5 with classics set for both 1024x768 and 1152x900 (you can choose which resolution you want in the PROM monitor before booting). One person had trouble with X11R5 that was fixed by using the multi-screen version. Here's how our version was built. (You can just copy /usr/local/X11R5/bin/Xsun from farside.rutgers.edu if you just want to see whether this version will work.) R5 distribution installed, from pub/R5/mit-[1-4] and contrib-[1-3] on export.lcs.mit.edu patches 1 - 23 installed, from pub/R5/fixes on export R5 Xsun Multi-screen patches installed, from contrib/R5.Xsun.multi-screen* on export, 22-Mar-93 Solaris 2.1 patches installed, release 1/update 2, from contrib/R5.SunOS5.patch* on export, 22-Mar-93
A simple question to all the Xperts: Is it possible to use several X-Terminals with only one mouse and one keyboard? Any suggestions? Thanks, rainer.
Forwarded from Neal Ausman, Galileo Mission Director GALILEO MISSION DIRECTOR STATUS REPORT POST-LAUNCH April 16 - 22, 1993 SPACECRAFT 1. On April 19, cruise science Memory Readouts (MROs) were performed for the Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrometer (EUV), Dust Detector (DDS), and Magnetometer (MAG) instruments. Preliminary analysis indicates the data was received properly. 2. On April 19, a Command Detector Unit Signal-to-Noise Ratio (CDUSNR) test and a Radio Frequency Subsystem Automatic Gain Control (RFSAGC) test were performed using the LGA-1 (Low Gain Antenna #1) over DSS-63 (Madrid 70 meter antenna) and DSS-61 (Madrid 34 meter antenna), respectively. Data analysis is in process. These tests are periodically performed to provide detailed information relative to the telecom command hardware integrity. 3. On April 19, a NO-OP command was sent to reset the command loss timer to 264 hours, its planned value during this mission phase. 4. On April 21, the first of two suppressed carrier/DSN (Deep Space Network) advanced receiver characterization tests was performed over DSS-14 (Goldstone 70 meter antenna). The spacecraft modulation index was varied from 43 degrees to 90 degrees for a range of ground receiver bandwidth settings. 5. The AC bus imbalance measurement has not exhibited significant change (greater than 25 DN) throughout this period but the DC bus imbalance measurement has. The AC measurement reads 20 DN (4.5 volts). The DC measurement has ranged from 43 DN (4.6 volts) to 138 DN (16.2 volts) and currently reads 138 DN (16.2 volts). These measurements are consistent with the model developed by the AC/DC special anomaly team. 6. The Spacecraft status as of April 22, 1993, is as follows: a) System Power Margin - 68 watts b) Spin Configuration - Dual-Spin c) Spin Rate/Sensor - 3.15rpm/Star Scanner d) Spacecraft Attitude is approximately 21 degrees off-sun (lagging) and 5 degrees off-earth (leading) e) Downlink telemetry rate/antenna- 40bps(coded)/LGA-1 f) General Thermal Control - all temperatures within acceptable range g) RPM Tank Pressures - all within acceptable range h) Orbiter Science- Instruments powered on are the PWS, EUV, UVS, EPD, MAG, HIC, and DDS i) Probe/RRH - powered off, temperatures within acceptable range j) CMD Loss Timer Setting - 264 hours Time To Initiation - 184 hours TRAJECTORY As of noon Thursday, April 22, 1993, the Galileo Spacecraft trajectory status was as follows: Distance from Earth 169,747,800 km (1.14 AU) Distance from Sun 286,967,900 km (1.92 AU) Heliocentric Speed 91,200 km per hour Distance from Jupiter 532,735,900 km Round Trip Light Time 18 minutes, 58 seconds SPECIAL TOPIC
??? I've heard about that Italian guy distributing Motif binaries for 386BSD, but I haven't heard of anybody doing the same thing for Linux. ... and I do follow the Linux news group pretty closely. So, have I missed something? I'd LOVE to get hold of Motif libs for Linux for $100!
I saw an interesting product in NY Auto Show, and would like to hear your comments. MILITECH(tm) is yet another oil additive. But the demonstration of this product really impressive, if it didn't cheat. The setup of the demo is fairly simple. A cone shaped rotor is half submerged in a small oil sink, filled with motor oil. The rotor is powered by an electronic motor. A metal pad is pressed against the rotor using the torque wrench until the rotor stopped by friction. The torque that is needed to stop rotor is read from the torque wrench. Before MILITECH was added, the rotor was stopped with about 60 lb-ft of torque (You pick the brand of oil, no difference). Once MILITECH was added to the oil, the rotor could not be stopped even with 120+ lb-ft of torque. Here is the good part: even after the salesman emptied the oil sink, you still could not stopped the rotor with the thin film remained on it. They say you need only add 2oz per quart of oil every 15k miles. A 16 oz bottle is $25. I still have my doubts. If this product is really so great, why it was so little known? The salesman said it is widely used in military. I didn't believe it. The demo was so impressive, that I bought a bottle against my common sense. Has anyone heard of or actually used this product? Is it real? If you are going to the auto show, please visit this stand on the second floor. See if can find out if the demo is a hoax or not.
The U.S. Government's campaign of persecution and genocide against the Branch Davidians was a resounding success. Heil Clinton! Heil Reno! The Gestapo is alive and well and living in Washington, D.C. -- Kevin, who agrees that David Koresh was probably a first-rate nutcase but who firmly believes that the Bill of Rights guaranteed his his right to be a religious fanatic and that the government is guilty of violating his civil rights and of 1st degree murder. OK, which small, under-represented-in-congress religious group are we going to persecute next and are we going to torch their church with a rolled up copy of the Constitution?
[other uninformed, purposefully ignorant gun control ranting deleted] I want this man to tell me how in the hell you can take the explosives used in the WTC bombing, considering that the consensus seems to be that the explosive was a fertilizer-based one. Ammonium nitrate, to be exact . . . of which about 90,000 tons disappears per year (if I recall the stat correctly; I don't have it here.) Just one more disregarding of reality to push a point. [more bunk deleted]
Doug> NNTP-Posting-Host: se05.wg2.waii.com I am having a big problem trying to build MIT X11R5 with xlc 1.2.1 (the one bundled with AIX 3.2.3e). Its almost the linker is not working properly with shared libraries. I've built X11R5 with no problem before .. but now its all headaches. For example, the xset client complains that libXmu doesnt have a bunch of Xt routines and shr.o is missing (or something like that). The build of libXmu DOES link in libXt so I am really perplexed what is going on. ....following up on this, the specific error I get is: Could not load program ./xset Symbol XtVaSetValues in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtName in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtWindowOfObject in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtGetConstraintResourceList in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtDisplayToApplicationContext in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtAppSetTypeConverter in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtScreenDatabase in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtResolvePathname in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtCvtStringToFont in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtCallConverter in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Symbol XtDisplayStringConversionWarning in ../.././lib/Xmu/libXmu.a is undefined Could not load library libXmu.a[shr.o] Error was: Exec format error
actually, disabled persons have been known to drive in SCCA races. i'd be careful about making sweeping generalizations here. i'd prefer a manual transmission, but the early SHO had an awful transmission that felt like it came out of a truck or something. it was almost enough to make me want an automatic.
A couple of questions for you firearms law experts out there: Question #1 According to the NRA/ILA state firearms lawbook, in Wisconsin it is 'unlawful for any person except a peace officer to go armed* with a "concealed and dangerous weapon." There is no statutory provision for obtaining a lixense or permit to carry a concealed weapon.' * Jury instructions indicate that 'to go armed' one must have a firearm on one's person or within his immediate control and available for use. Does this mean that open carry is allowed? If so, just how 'open' does it have to be? Would an in the pants holster be considered concealing? What if one had their jacket on and it partially covered the weapon? Also, is there any way to be allowed to carry concealed, or is it just not allowed, period? Question #2 As I understand it, in Evanston, IL, they have a ordinance banning handguns. Is there any way to get around this provision? What would the penalty if you were found out be? What if you used said handgun in a defensive shooting in your apartment there? How would the city law apply to your impending trial for the shooting? Also, what is IL state law concerning short barreled weapons? Short barreled shotgun is what I would be interested in if a handgun were not available, either that or a shortened 9mm carbine (ie Colt, Marlin). One more thing, what is the chance of getting a CCW permit in IL without being rich or famous or related to the mayor?
If anyone out there has an HP180 series scope or mainframe, I have the TDR plug in (the 1810, I believe) for it and have no need to keep it. Interested? E-mail me. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------- Dave Medin Phone: (205) 730-3169 (w) SSD--Networking (205) 837-1174 (h) Intergraph Corp. M/S GD3004 Internet: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com Huntsville, AL 35894 UUCP: ...uunet!ingr!b30!catbyte!dtmedin ******* Everywhere You Look (at least around my office) *******
I've installed X11R5 with patches for Solaris 2.1 on our SPARCstation LX / SPARCclassic pool. On the LX, X11R5 runs fine, but on the classics, after giving the command startx, Xsun prints the following messages: WARNING: cg3_mmap: can't map dummy space! Mapping cg3c: No such device or address and exits. Does anybody know how to fix this problem? Thanks in advance.
Can any Apollo GURUS out there let me know of their experiences building MIT X11R5, with or without GCC 2.3.3. In particular, is there anything I should watch out for. Thanks in advance
PDR and CPS are good places to starts. do a medline search... lots of interesting debates going on (remember when Prozac was impicated in suicidal behaviour?)
For those of you who are thinking about fiamms, you might also want to think about airhorns. I just installed a set of Bosch air horns ordered from Dennis Kirk (pg. 282 of the latest catalog) on my '85 FJ1100. They are rated at 93db at 7 meters. I installed them using 10 gage wire from the battery to the relay to the compressor to ground. My stock horn connectors fit the relay pins just fine. I soldered the connections to the relay and compressor, and used a crimp type battery connector and an inline 10amp fuse/connector from NAPA. I installed the compressor just forward of the fuse box in the front fairing by tie wrapping between the steering head frame and the black steel tube frame used to support the front fairing. You have to remove the front fairing to do this, but it fits outside of the frame but inside the fairing on the two vertical supports just in front of the fuses. Depending how tight your fairing follows the frame, you should be able to fit it somewhere in the fairing. The compressor is about 2" in diameter and about 5" long. The relay mounted on the front of the steering head frame (it is small so there should be plenty of good places for it. I found a perfect place for the horns that required only tie wraps to mount. The horns fit inside the front fairing/frame and stick out on either side just in front of the air scoops, but behind the turn signals. The back of the horns point back towards the center of the bike and come real close to where the gas tank connects to the front part of the frame. There is just enough room to the outside to allow full lock to lock clearance, and there are nice cut outs in the frame for the back of the horn to go into. The short horn is even with the fairing, and the long one sticks out about an inch or so, but it is really not that noticable unless you look closely. They end up pointing down slightly and maybe 30 degrees from straight ahead (perfect for those cagers trying to change lanes into you). If you have any other questions about the mounting, email, and I can try to explain better. If your bike is not red, then you may want to paint them first. How do they work you ask? They are very, very, very *LOUD*. They sound more like a european sports car than a truck, but a vast improvement over stock. I have used them at least daily since installing them, and the 10 amp fuse has not blown yet (although, the duration of the horn blasts have been short). I've repeatedly scared the shit out of my friends with them, even though they know that I have the horns, they still jump. They are perfect for keeping the pedestrians on the sidewalk. The bottom line is they work, are loud enough to cause pain and suffering to those stupid lane changing cages (as well as take a few years off their lives) and are relatively easy to install on the FJ. YMMV.
Try Parts Express in Dayton, Ohio also. They have a complete line of professional arcade buttons, joysticks etc... The have a 1-800 number so call 1-800-555-1212 and ask them what the 1-800 number for Part Express in Dayton, Ohio is. I love the free 1-800 directory assistance... - Dan -- Daniel Joseph Rubin rubin@cis.ohio-state.edu
Was THAT your argument. Well, you didn't make it very well. You started from the questionable premise that the fire was necessarily an act of insanity, rather than an act of negligence or an accident. Recall, one survivor claims that the fire started when a tank knocked over a kerosene lamp. Kind of makes arguments regarding relative sanity somewhat moot, no? "Nice evasive maneuver, Mr. Chekov, but they're still on our tail." Let me ask it more plainly. Which of the above complaints about David Koresh's religious or sexual proclivities justified an armed raid by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms? It's not entirely far-fetched. Nobody outside the compound would know EVERYBODY inside the compound. Don't forget, the BATF admits having agents inside the compound, in any case. I'm simply being the devil's advocate. There's reasonable doubt by the boatload standing in the way of anybody totally swallowing the official government story on Waco. --
There's an article in Motorcycling a couple of months back specifically on women's attire for serious and not-so-serious riding. They do mention who makes stuff specific for women's dimensions, and what also works OK enough as well. Bates will make custom jackets and leathers for a reasonable charge. --
Check out Xicor's new goodie in the April 12th edition of EETimes X88C64 - an 8k * 8 E2PROM with built in latch AND bootloader setup. You hook it directly to your '51, power it up, the prom initialises the serial port on the '51, you load in your code via RXD, this gets blatted onto the E2PROM, then you reset and run - i'm sure Dallas also does something like this too, i suppose it would boil down to relative prices, and the Dallas part freeing up P0 & P2 completely. I wonder if ANYONE has ever managed to design a single sided PCB with an 8051, 573, EPROM, SRAM and >>NO LINKS<< ? cheers Mike.
[flame-bait, pure and simple]
Proven? Maybe not. But it can certainly be verified beyond a reasonable doubt. This statement and statements like it are a matter of public record. Before the Six Day War (1967) I think Nasser and some other Arab leaders were broadcasting these statements on Arab radio. You might want to check out some old newspapers Ahmed. I think if you take a look at the Hamas covenant (written in 1988) you might get a different impression. I have the convenant in the original arabic with a translation that I've verified with Arabic speakers. The document is rife with calls to kill jews and spread Islam and so forth.
Standard colormaps were spec'd with the intention that window managers would make them available. This doesn't mean that every window manager author in the world immediately dropped everything they were doing and implemented this at top priority. The ESGE server we ship makes the XA_RGB_BEST_MAP available at startup. It doesn't wait for window managers to do it. Does your hardware have only one CLUT? Since standard colormaps typically devour all 256 entries, there is no way it can avoid displacing the entire default colormap if your hardware has only one CLUT. I don't believe standard colormaps are intended to aboid possible colormap flashing between clients using the default coilormap. Rather, colormap flashing will be avoided between two clients that use the same standard colormap. An example would be two clients that need a full color range would both use XA_RGB_BEST_MAP (or whatever it's called under X11R5). If you are trying to avoid colormap flashing with the default colormap, your best bet is to try to load all the colors you use into that colormap. If you can't do that, then you'll get flashing on a one hw CLUT framebuffer. Now if your window manager used the same standard colormap as your client, this flashing could also be avoided. Perhaps some window managers have command line options for selecting standard colormaps? --
I have read -just today- two articles dripping of hate and offence to a great deal of people. I could find as much matching hatred in your articles as I have found in some of the self-righteous "Kill-in-the-name of God" people. I don't know why you are so attcaking to everyone, is it a reaction to the hatred calls on this newsgroup, or is it a reaction to hardships you have seen and experienced from before... I have learnt not to judge people by only what they say, but rather try to put myself in their place and aspire to understand their feelings. I hope you would be able to do the same with everyone, starting by your ownself, because only through that you could be able to understand your feelings and act in a the manner you would aspire everyone to adopt. Thanks for your time
I know it's a long shot, but maybe someone went through this and will have some comments to share. The story is this: I bought a car out of state, and I'm trying to get the safety inspection in Pennsylvania. The problem is that the car has aftermarket tint on all windows except the windshield. The tint is rather weak, and you can clearly see the inside of the car through the tint. The inspection garage said that they won't pass it unless I get a waiver from the state police. So I went to the state police - the officer told me that aftermarket tint is illegal, and I can get a waiver only for a pre-84 car or for a medical reason. I asked him to show me the section of the vehicle code that says it's illegal. He showed it to me and the paraghaph said that you can't have tint, if you can't see the inside of the car because of the tint. When I told him that you can in fact see the inside very well, he shut the book and said "It's just illegal, and in fact we can have someone give you a ticket for it right now." Well, won't argue with that... Since the vehicle code says it's OK as long as you can see through the tint, I'd like to keep it (I'll re-read the vehicle code in the library). I'd also like to get some sort of paper from the police that says it's OK, so I can get the inspection, and so that I won't get in trouble for the tint later on. I also wouldn't mind registering a complaint against that officer - he really pissed me off. So does anyone have any experience getting that sort of a paper from the police, especially in Pennsylvania? Does anyone have any experience registering a complaint against an officer? I called the station later on today, but they basically said there is no place where I could register a complaint against an officer... And if I do decide to keep the tint and get a ticket anyway, how much of a chance do I stand to succesfully appeal the ticket in court? Any comments about it will be welcome!
This is exactly what I have heard before. If you were to fade away and nobody saw you what kind of evidence would they be able to get to catch you (this is assuming that you either collected your brass or had a revolver)? Guess it's time to take a trip to the library and look at the Illinois statutes again :-) Just for the record folks I'm just asking this because I'm curious. I'm just trying to find out from people who have read more on stuff like this.
Hi, netters! I've just built X11R5 pl 21 under Solaris 2.1. I've used the multi-screen patch, as well as the R5.SunOS... patch and everything builds great, except "Cannot set default font path '[stuff deleted]'" and "Cannot set default font 'fixed'". If I supply the -fp option, it doesn't complain about the font path but still complains about the font. I have symlinks from /usr/lib/ to the place where my distribution lives. Could somebody help me? -joel -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Joel Reymont ! Z-Code Software Corporation ! e-mail: joel@z-code.com ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4340 Redwood Hwy, Suit B.50, San Rafael, CA 94903
Hi, I am trying to write an X-windows based interface that runs on top of GDB. Could anyone help me in understanding the way we are supposed to "fork" GDB off as a subprocess ?? I currently use pipes but when I try and debug this program, the following happens : PROGRAM : main() { int x; printf("enter x : "); scanf("%d", &x); printf("x = .%d.\n", x ); } OUTPUT : The program hangs without returning the output of the printf statement. When I type in a value (like 5), then all the printf's output comes out at one time. Is there any other way, besides using PIPES to do this i.e., like ioctl or something else ?? Thanks, Deepak
I am trying to build and use imake (X11R4) on an IBM RS/6000 running AIX V3.2. I am having the following 2 problems. (1) Many of my Imakefile's have contructs like /**/#This is a makefile at the start of lines to pass Makefile comments thru the C preprocessor and into the Makefile. Most of the C preprocessors that I have used will not treat such a # as appearing at the start of the line. Thus the C preprocessor does not treat the hash symbol as the start of a directive. However the IBM cpp strips the comment and treats the hash symbol as the start of a directive. The cpp fails when it determines that "This" is not a known directive. I have temporarily hacked my imake to handle this situation but would like to come up with a better fix. (2) Several Imakefiles use /**/ as a parameter to a macro when a particular use of the macro does not need a value for the parameter. The AIX cpp gives warnings about these situations but continues to work OK. If you are familiar with these problems and have solutions, I would appreciate information about on your solutions. (Perhaps, this is solved in a later version of imake that I have not reviewed.) Also, do you know of other cpp's that behave similarly?
There's also Billy Jack, The Wild One, Smokey and the Bandit (Where Jerry Reed runs his truck over Motorcycle Gangs Bikes), and a video tape documentary on the Hell's Angels I found in a rental store once
Actually, info@qdeck.com is our customer service department. If you have technical questions, you can write to support@qdeck.com. I expect the limiting factor will be your server machine, not the network itself. To give you a real-world example, here at Quarterdeck we have roughly 100 people using DVX to talk to a bunch of unix boxes, novell file servers, and each other. It's not _too_ much of a load on our Ethernet (with maybe 4 concentrators, so you have 20-30 people on each segment). If you had a badly loaded net, or the apps you wanted to run were very network intensive, you could run into some slowdowns. But the biggest problem would be the machine itself. Say you have a 486 33 with plenty of ram and a fast hard disk and network card. If you have 10 people running programs off it, you're going to see some slowdowns because you're now on (effectively) a 3.3 MHz 486. Of course, DVX will attempt to see if tasks are idle and make sure they give up their time slice, but if you have 10 working programs running, you'll know it. Having said that, if you can tweak the programs being run (by adding in calls to give up time slices when idle and that sort of thing), you could probably run 15-20 people on a given machine before you started seeing slowdowns again (this time from network bandwidth). It all really depends on what the programs are doing (ie. you're going to see a slowdown from X-bandwidth a lot sooner if your apps are all doing network things also...)
I'm writing an application running under X (using Motif), and I need to do some stuff when the application quits. Now, when I shut down my X Windows session, it doesn't seem to send a SIGTERM (or whatever) signal to my application (I'm trapping various signals like that). Therefore, I thought I could use an X signal to check for my top level window being destroyed. However I seem to get DestroyNotify events whenever I move windows. Is there any way for me to check that the window is actually being destroyed (some field to check or some combination of events?). Replies by e-mail please and I will summarise. Thanks for any help, Ian
My T-Bird SC's manual says to replace the platinum plugs every 60,000mi. Wal-Mart has Autolite platinum plugs for $2.00 each. Are these "real" platinum plugs? (I had Bosch platinums in my '80 Fiesta and my dad had 'em in his '84 Bronco--note the keyword "had." They didn't last very long (much less than 50,000mi) before they had to be replaced. I agree that they weren't the greatest.) James
Can somebody elaborate on "Area Ruling". I gather it's something to do with aerodynamics of trans-sonic planes, and can be summarised as "Coke bottle good, Coke can bad". Anyone provide more details, derivation etc?
I too would be interested in ANY information on the subject of programing PALS etc..... Better to know what your on about before you start something, I always say. Often saves you a packet as well !! Thanks in advance.. Chris ;-) +====================================================================+ |Name : Mr Chris Smith | Twang on that 'ole guitar ! | |Addrs: scst83@uk.ac.liv | | |Uni : Liverpool University |Quest: To build more and more hardware | |Dgree: Computer Science | | +====================================================================+ "What ever the Sun may be, it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas!" -- D.H. Lawrence.
I looked for diab in my .newsrc and came up with nuthin. Anyone have any good sources for where I can read? In particular, I'm interested in finding out more about intravenous insulin injection for hepatic vein liver activation. (Whew! Wotta mouthful!) Anything that smells like a pointer would be helpful: newsgroup, mailinglist, etc.... Many thanks.
Why retract your accusation that he's a liar? If Omran retracts his "verbal diarrohea" doesn't that only prove the liar he *really* is? A retraction would be pointless! Giving this guy the opportunity to "save face" after uttering such bullshit would just encourage him to do it again! I must say that your style is very impressive, Mark. Keep it up! - Mike
That's true. Israeli ID cards do not identify people as Israelies. Smart huh? Yes. There's one warhead in my parent's backyard in Beer Sheva (that's only some 20 miles from Dimona, you know). Evidence? I saw it! Yes. But unfortunately I can't give you more details. That's _secret_, you see. [...] You're welcome. Now, let me ask you a few questions, if you don't mind: 1. Is it true that the Center for Policy Research is a one-man enterprise? 2. Is it true that your questions are not being asked bona fide? 3. Is it true that your statement above, "These are indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by people around me" is not true?
oh yes, i'm quite sure they will :)
(note: this is not about the L.A. or NY Times) A few times a year, a funny thing happens: the bike engine runs perfectly. Completely smooth. Not that it runs poorly normally, but on these days, it is exceptional. My theory is that the air density and moisture content of the air are such that I get complete combustion. Needless to say, it puts me in a great mood. The mood lasted for about 20 miles. Heading north on the 405 freeway, about a mile or two south of the 10, my throttle stopped responding.... and I was between lanes. Nothing to do but make my way over 4 lanes to the shoulder... initially by gliding, then by pushing. At least traffic was heavy enough so that cars did not mind stopping for me. Turned out to be a screw unscrewed inside my Mikuni HS40 carb. I keep hearing that one should keep all of the screws tight on a bike, but I never thought that I had to do that on the screws inside of a carb. At least it was roadside fixable and I was on my way in hardly any time. ____________________________________________________________________________ Death is life's way of telling you you've been fired -- R. Geis
Attacking? Who is attacking who? Even the country you live in,USA, have condemned Armenia for it's attacking. And you start to say that the attackers are the Azeris????? |>Armenians have lived in Nagorno Karabakh ever since there were Armenians ????? Azeris have lived in Nagorno Karabakh ever since there were Azeris... Don't come with nonsence, there is no reason to attack a people just because a man called "Gorbatjov and co." gave the "freedom" to the people in this area. It's easy for people like you to blame history. The were a lot of Indians living in USA. There is no reason for these Indians to attack the "American" people and say:"It was the fault of the government of Germany and Great Britain, because they made people come to our place......" Armenians lived in harmony with the Azeris until "Gorbatjov and co." gave "freedom" to the people in Karabag, then the Armenians started to kill, rape and torture the Azeris, not only in Karabag but also noe in Azerbadjan.... |>It's too bad you would want Turkey to start a war with Armenia. That's what i don't want, you couldn't imagine the result of a war..... So France, Greece and USA wants to start fighting with Azerbadjan???? They give a lot more weapons to the Armenians without saying it, that's no secret any more...... I must say that these Armenian Government is very shortsighted. Do they think that they shall move from it's neigbours when the war is over???? The neighbour around will be there and Armenia must live in harmony with these if they don't want a "stone-age" country, for that's what's will happen Armenia if the wars continues. Look, The President of Turkey, Turgut Ozal, died and Petrosyan the Armenian Presindent is now in Turkey for the funeral. Is it because he liked him? Sure NOT, because Armenia needs it's neighbours and must live with these. But Armenia can't stop this war with continued ordertaking from states like France and USA. With other words, if you love your people you must think twice..... And i wonder, "Shoot down turkish planes" WITH WHAT????? ohhh i forgot the Armenians can't find food but there are a lot of arms from the mentioned countries.....
I note that you make no such case as you claim can be 'even more easily made'. Yes, the argument can (and has) been made that current government policy creates even larger market barriers than there were in the first place, but there is no such term as 'government failure', since the government can change policies whenever it pleases. The market doesn't do that and is governed by (relatively) well-understood forces. This libertopican bilge about 'moral arguments' about taxation, etc., is, at bottom, so much simplistic economic thinking. It can only be 'justified' by cliche derision of anyone who knows more about economics than the libertopian -- which is what invariably happens. Tripe a la Tommy, the new libertopian dish. Wherever do you get this inflated idea of your own importance? -- "Insisting on perfect safety is for people who don't have the balls to live in the real world." -- Mary Shafer, NASA Ames Dryden
Yup! Ruins your sex life! Tony
Or, if you've got some entreprenuerial (sp?) spirit, get a cheapy clear plastic box, mount the simm inside, and sell it as a 'Pet SIMM'! I'm sure there are *plenty* of suckers out there who would go for it!
I've already corrected my mistake earlier in this thread. I saw a brief news report which led to the above inaccuracy. I have since seen detailed summaries that show the tanks returned in the late morning. So, why didn't the BD's leave when the gas was first introduced much earlier in the morning? Didn't they care about the children? Why didn't they release the children weeks ago?
Yes, I saw a 200 Turbo Quattro wagon on I-287 in NJ on Monday. I thought Audi stopped selling wagons in the US after the 5000. This is exactly the type of vehicle I would like to own. I bet its price is 4-5 times my car budget.
Hello Netters, I would like to find out information about a device that is used on vans and trucks. This device is a step that hooks onto the tire and folds up for storage. I've seen this device on TNN's Shady Tree Mechanic. I would like to know if it is a good product and I would also like the price and address of where I can purchase this product. Thanks,
Original to: keithley@apple.com G'day keithley@apple.com 21 Apr 93 22:25, keithley@apple.com wrote to All: kc> keithley@apple.com (Craig Keithley), via Kralizec 3:713/602 kc> But back to the contest goals, there was a recent article in AW&ST about a kc> low cost (it's all relative...) manned return to the moon. A General kc> Dynamics scheme involving a Titan IV & Shuttle to lift a Centaur upper kc> stage, LEV, and crew capsule. The mission consists of delivering two kc> unmanned payloads to the lunar surface, followed by a manned mission. kc> Total cost: US was $10-$13 billion. Joint ESA(?)/NASA project was $6-$9 kc> billion for the US share. kc> moon for a year. Hmmm. Not really practical. Anyone got a kc> cheaper/better way of delivering 15-20 tonnes to the lunar surface within kc> the decade? Anyone have a more precise guess about how much a year's kc> supply of consumables and equipment would weigh? Why not modify the GD plan into Zurbrin's Compact Moon Direct scheme? let one of those early flight carry an O2 plant and make your own. ta Ralph
And another survivor claims he heard someone shouting "The fire's started!". Odd terminology. That's what one says when you know a fire is planned, not when one occurs by accident. We will have to wait and see what the evidence shows, assuming one is willing to believe any evidence offered by the "distrustful ones". Neither. Again I was merely addressing the sanity level of the players. I agree that the BATF handled the affair badly from day one. BTW, I heard on the news today that the affadavit behind the no-knock warrant was unsealed today. Grenade launcher was the only thing on the list that I found unusual. Ambitious news reporters could use the documentary filmed by an Australian in 1992 on the compound grounds to help identify survivors. I, for one, will check their stories for consistency with what I learned in a long news story about that documentary. Certainly there is some room for doubt. I certainly reserve the right to change my opinions when new evidence warrants such a change. If I were conspiratorially minded, however, I would never be able to change my mind, because any evidence I disliked would have to be a lie fabricated by the "distrustful ones".
I'm told that corn allergy is fairly common. My wife has it and it seems to be exacerbated if sugar is eaten with the corn. I suppose that in a person just on the verge of having epilepsy, an allergic reaction might cause a seizure, but I don't really know. Gordon?
----------------------------------------------------------- Animation is most frequently done by copying the the client resident XImages into server resident Pixmap(s) using XPutImage. Once this is done, the original XImages can be deleted and the animation loop can be performed using XCopyArea from the Pixmaps to the windows drawable. Hope this is helpfull.
I'm trying to figure out how to operate a Pioneer Laserdisc LD-1000 that I bought at a surplus store. It is reputedly from some kind of computerised viewing and/or ordering system. THere is what may be an HPIB connector on the back. When I power it up, the front panel power light comes on, but no activity, and the door doesn't open. Anyone have any experience with this unit or any ideas on how to obtain documentation?
Did you forget to put in a sarcasm flag?
I would suggest Draw for Windows (by Micrografx). I have this on my home box. Its quite impressive and only cost UKL100. It has a rather nice clip-art library facility which you can expand with your own drawings. There is no circuit component clip-art included, but you could add your own quite easily. It works with any Windows printer driver of course, and can also export embedded postscript and PCX files. Note: I am not connected with Micrografx in any way. Paul.
Carl Lydick: Believe what you will. The mass of anectdotal evidence, combined with the lack of a properly constructed scientific experiment disproving the hypothesis, makes the MSG reaction hypothesis the most likely explanation for events.
-*---- I think that part of the problem is that I have proposed a definition of science that I intended to be interpreted broadly and that Lee Lady has interpreted fairly narrowly. My definition is this: Science is the investigation of the empirical that avoids mistakes in reasoning and methodology discovered from previous Unless one classifies "thinking and informal exploration" as a mistake, they fall under my definition. I hope no one would consider speculation, thinking, and informal exploration as unscientific. Here is where I think we are talking at cross-purposes. It is not clear to me that the kind of definition I have proposed should be taken as describing what "science is mainly about." Consider, for example, a definition of invertebrates as all animals lacking a backbone. This fairly tells what is an invertebrate and what is not an invertebrate, but it hardly tells you what invertebrates are all about. One can read this definition and still not know that 95% of all animal species are invertebrates, that invertebrates possess a remarkably broad range of form, that some invertebrate groups -- such as insects and nematodes -- are ubiquitous in all ecosystems, etc. In short, knowing the definition of invertebrates does *not* tell one what they are "mainly about." The misunderstanding here is my fault. I did not give sufficient context for people to understand my proposed definition. I agree on both counts. As an example of the second, it would only take a few cases of curing rabies to convince most veterinarians that a treatment was effective, despite a lack of controls. As to the first, I do not think it is useful to talk about "absolute scientific truth." I think it is more useful to talk about the kinds of evidence that various claims have and the kinds of evidence IN PARTICULAR FIELDS that in the past have proven faulty or reliable. The latter is obviously a matter of degree, and in each field, practitioners try to discover the relevance of different kinds of evidence. One of the primary mistakes that marks the advocacy of an idea as psuedo-science is that the advocacy lacks any sense of proportion regarding the kinds of evidence related to the proposed claim, the kinds of evidence that are actually relevant to it, and the historical reasons in the field that certain kinds of evidence are given more weight than others. It is perfectly alright to speculate. I have read quite a few refereed papers that speculated left and right. But the authors were careful to identify the notions as speculative, to list what little evidence was presently available for them, and to describe how research could proceed to either put the notion on more firm footing or to uncover its problems. Often what distinguishes whether a paper of this sort passes muster is the thoughtfulness with which the author sets the context and paves the way for future work. (It is in this area that many proponents of speculative ideas fail.) I think a lot of scientists steer away from things that -- deserving or not -- garner a patina of kookiness. When proponents of some practice see no value in more careful investigation of that practice, that sets alarms ringing in many researchers' minds. This is unfortunate, because there is undoubtedly some intersection between things that are worth investigating and things that are advocated by those who seem careless or unreasonable in their advocacy. On the other hand, I can understand why many scientists would just as soon select other directions for research. As Gordon Banks has pointed out, no one wants to become this generation's Rhine. I think this is absurd. I wonder why the results were not published. In my field, dissertation results are typically summarized in papers that are submitted to journals. Often the papers are accepted for publication before the dissertation is finished. (This certainly eases one's defense.) Finally, I hope Lee Lady will forgive me from commenting either on NLP or the discussion of it in sci.psychology. I know little about either and so have nothing to offer.
Actually, there are people who will tell you that it *would* be enough to do SSTO development, if done privately as a cut-rate operation. Of course, they may be over-optimistic. You can also assume that a working SSTO would have other applications that would help pay for its development costs. I'd be inclined to make the prize somewhat larger, but $1G might be enough.
I use xwd and xwd2ps. To do it from within a program I use xwd -id xxxxx where xxxxx is the window id obtained from XtWindow(widget). -- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
How is it ever going to be an Off- the Shelf Technology if someone doesn't do it? Maybe we should do this as part of the SSF design goals. ;-) Gee fred. After your bitter defense of 20 KHz power as a Basic technology for SSF, Id think you would support a minor research program like this. And does anyone who knows more Particle physics then me, know if the IPNS could Prove this technology?
Archive-name: space/intro Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:10 $ FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ON SCI.SPACE/SCI.ASTRO INTRODUCTION This series of linked messages is periodically posted to the Usenet groups sci.space and sci.astro in an attempt to provide good answers to frequently asked questions and other reference material which is worth preserving. If you have corrections or answers to other frequently asked questions that you would like included in this posting, send email to leech@cs.unc.edu (Jon Leech). If you don't want to see the FAQ, add 'Frequently Asked Questions' to your KILL file for this group (if you're not reading this with a newsreader that can kill articles by subject, you're out of luck). The FAQ volume is excessive right now and will hopefully be trimmed down by rewriting and condensing over time. The FAQ postings are available in the Ames SPACE archive in FAQ/faq<#>. Good summaries will be accepted in place of the answers given here. The point of this is to circulate existing information, and avoid rehashing old answers. Better to build on top than start again. Nothing more depressing than rehashing old topics for the 100th time. References are provided because they give more complete information than any short generalization. Questions fall into three basic types: 1) Where do I find some information about space? Try your local public library first. The net is not a good place to ask for general information. Ask INDIVIDUALS (by email) if you must. There are other sources, use them, too. The net is a place for open ended discussion. 2) I have an idea which would improve space flight? Hope you aren't surprised, but 9,999 out of 10,000 have usually been thought of before. Again, contact a direct individual source for evaluation. NASA fields thousands of these each day. 3) Miscellanous queries. These are addressed on a case-by-case basis in the following series of FAQ postings. SUGGESTIONS FOR BETTER NETIQUETTE Read news.announce.newusers if you're on Usenet. Minimize cross references, [Do you REALLY NEED to?] Edit "Subject:" lines, especially if you're taking a tangent. Send mail instead, avoid posting follow ups. (1 mail message worth 100 posts). Internet mail readers: send requests to add/drop to SPACE-REQUEST not SPACE. Read all available articles before posting a follow-up. (Check all references.) Cut down attributed articles (leave only the points you're responding to; remove signatures and headers). Summarize! Put a return address in the body (signature) of your message (mail or article), state your institution, etc. Don't assume the 'reply' function of mailers will work. Use absolute dates. Post in a timely way. Don't post what everyone will get on TV anyway. Some editors and window systems do character count line wrapping: keep lines under 80 characters for those using ASCII terminals (use carriage returns). INDEX TO LINKED POSTINGS I've attempted to break the postings up into related areas. There isn't a keyword index yet; the following lists the major subject areas in each posting. Only those containing astronomy-related material are posted to sci.astro (indicated by '*' following the posting number). # Contents 1* Introduction Suggestions for better netiquette Index to linked postings Notes on addresses, phone numbers, etc. Contributors 2* Network resources Overview Mailing lists Periodically updated information Warning about non-public networks 3* Online (and some offline) sources of images, data, etc. Introduction Viewing Images Online Archives NASA Ames NASA Astrophysics Data System NASA Jet Propulsion Lab (Mission Information and Images) NASA Langley (Technical Reports) NASA Spacelink National Space Science Data Center Space Telescope Science Institute Electronic Info. Service Starcat Astronomical Databases Astronomy Programs Orbital Element Sets SPACE Digest Landsat & NASA Photos Planetary Maps Cometary Orbits 4* Performing calculations and interpreting data formats Computing spacecraft orbits and trajectories Computing planetary positions Computing crater diameters from Earth-impacting asteroids Map projections and spherical trignometry Performing N-body simulations efficiently Interpreting the FITS image format Sky (Unix ephemeris program) Three-dimensional star/galaxy coordinates 5* References on specific areas Publishers of space/astronomy material Careers in the space industry DC-X single-stage to orbit (SSTO) program How to name a star after a person LLNL "great exploration" Lunar Prospector Lunar science and activities Orbiting Earth satellite histories Spacecraft models Rocket propulsion Spacecraft design Esoteric propulsion schemes (solar sails, lasers, fusion...) Spy satellites Space shuttle computer systems SETI computation (signal processing) Amateur satellies & weather satellites Tides 6* Constants and equations for calculations 7* Astronomical Mnemonics 8 Contacting NASA, ESA, and other space agencies/companies NASA Centers / Arianespace / ESA / NASDA / Soyuzkarta / Space Camp / Space Commerce Corporation / Spacehab / SPOT Image Other commercial space businesses 9 Space shuttle answers, launch schedules, TV coverage Shuttle launchings and landings; schedules and how to see them Why does the shuttle roll just after liftoff? How to receive the NASA TV channel, NASA SELECT Amateur radio frequencies for shuttle missions Solid Rocket Booster fuel composition 10 Planetary probes - Historical Missions US planetary missions Mariner (Venus, Mars, & Mercury flybys and orbiters) Pioneer (Moon, Sun, Venus, Jupiter, and Saturn flybys and orbiters) Ranger (Lunar lander and impact missions) Lunar Orbiter (Lunar surface photography) Surveyor (Lunar soft landers) Viking (Mars orbiters and landers) Voyager (Outer planet flybys) Soviet planetary missions Soviet Lunar probes Soviet Venus probes Soviet Mars probes Japanese planetary missions Planetary mission references 11 Upcoming planetary probes - missions and schedules Cassini Galileo Magellan Mars Observer TOPEX/Poseidon Ulysses Other space science missions Proposed missions 12 Controversial questions What happened to the Saturn V plans Why data from space missions isn't immediately available Risks of nuclear (RTG) power sources for space probes Impact of the space shuttle on the ozone layer How long can a human live unprotected in space How the Challenger astronauts died Using the shuttle beyond Low Earth Orbit The "Face on Mars" 13 Space activist/interest/research groups and space publications Groups Publications Undocumented Groups 14 How to become an astronaut 15 Orbital and Planetary Launch Services NOTES ON ADDRESSES, PHONE NUMBERS, ETC. Unless otherwise specified, telephone numbers, addresses, and so on are for the United States of America. Non-US readers should remember to add the country code for telephone calls, etc. CREDITS Eugene Miya started a series of linked FAQ postings some years ago which inspired (and was largely absorbed into) this set. Peter Yee and Ron Baalke have and continue to spend a lot of their own time setting up the SPACE archives at NASA Ames and forwarding official NASA announcements. Many other people have contributed material to this list in the form of old postings to sci.space and sci.astro which I've edited. Please let me know if corrections need to be made. Contributors I've managed to keep track of are: 0004847546@mcimail.com (Francis Reddy) - map projections ad038@yfn.ysu.edu (Steven Fisk) - publication refs. akerman@bill.phy.queensu.CA (Richard Akerman) - crater diameters alweigel@athena.mit.edu (Lisa Weigel) - SEDS info aoab314@emx.utexas.edu (Srinivas Bettadpur) - tides awpaeth@watcgl.waterloo.edu (Alan Wm Paeth) - map projections aws@iti.org (Allen W. Sherzer) - Great Exploration baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov (Ron Baalke) - planetary probe schedules bankst@rata.vuw.ac.nz (Timothy Banks) - map projections, variable star analysis archive bern@uni-trier.de (Jochen Bern) - German mnemonic translation brosen@pioneer.arc.nasa.gov (Bernie Rosen) - Space Camp bschlesinger@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov (Barry Schlesinger) - FITS format cew@venera.isi.edu (Craig E. Ward) - space group contact info chapin@cbnewsc.att.com (Tom Chapin) - planetary positions cunnida@tenet.edu (D. Alan Cunningham) - NASA Spacelink cyamamot@kilroy.Jpl.Nasa.Gov (Cliff Yamamoto) - orbital elements datri@convex.com (Anthony Datri) - PDS/VICAR viewing software daver@sjc.mentorg.com (Dave Rickel) - orbit formulae dlbres10@pc.usl.edu (Phil Fraering) - propulsion eder@hsvaic.boeing.com (Dani Eder) - Saturn V plans, SRBs eugene@eos.arc.nasa.gov (Eugene N. Miya) - introduction, NASA contact info, started FAQ postings french@isu.isunet.edu (Patrick M. French) - space group contact info g@telesoft.com (Gary Morris) - amateur radio info gaetz@cfa.harvard.edu (Terry Gaetz) - N-body calculations, orbital dynamics grandi@noao.edu (Steve Grandi) - planetary positions greer%utd201.dnet%utadnx@utspan.span.nasa.gov (Dale M. Greer) - constants henry@zoo.toronto.edu (Henry Spencer) - survival in vacuum, astronaut how-to, Challenger disaster, publication refs, DC-X higgins@fnal.bitnet (William Higgins) - RTGs, publishers, shuttle landings, spysats, propulsion, "Face on Mars" hmueller@cssun.tamu.edu (Hal Mueller) - map projections, orbital dynamics jbh55289@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (Josh Hopkins) - launch services jim@pnet01.cts.com (Jim Bowery) - propulsion, launch services jnhead@pirl.lpl.arizona.edu (James N. Head) - atmospheric scale heights jscotti@lpl.arizona.edu (Jim Scotti) - planetary positions kcarroll@zoo.toronto.edu (Kieran A. Carroll)- refs for spacecraft design ken@orion.bitnet (Kenneth Ng) - RTGs kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (Ken Jenks) - shuttle roll manuever klaes@verga.enet.dec.com (Larry Klaes) - planetary probe history leech@cs.unc.edu (Jon Leech) - crater diameters lfa@ssi.com (Lou Adornato) - orbital dynamics maury.markowitz@egsgate.fidonet.org (Maury Markowitz) - propulsion max@west.darkside.com (Erik Max Francis) - equations mbellon@mcdurb.Urbana.Gould.COM - N-body calculations mcconley@phoenix.Princeton.edu (Marc Wayne Mcconley) - space careers msb@sq.com (Mark Brader) - Mariner 1 info. mwm@cmu.edu (Mark Maimone) - SPACE Digest nickw@syma.sussex.ac.uk (Dr. Nick Watkins) - models, spysats ohainaut@eso.org (Olivier R. Hainaut) - publishers, STARCAT oneil@aio.jsc.nasa.gov (Graham O'Neil) - Lunar Prospector panama@cup.portal.com (Kenneth W Durham) - cometary orbits, IAU paul.blase@nss.fidonet.org (Paul Blase) - propulsion pjs@plato.jpl.nasa.gov (Peter Scott) - RTGs pschleck@unomaha.edu (Paul W. Schleck) - AMSAT, ARRL contact info rdb@mel.cocam.oz.au (Rodney Brown) - propulsion refs rja7m@phil.cs.virginia.edu (Ran Atkinson) - FTPable astro. programs rjungcla@ihlpb.att.com (R. Michael Jungclas)- models roelle@sigi.jhuapl.edu (Curt Roelle) - German mnemonic translation seal@leonardo.jpl.nasa.gov (David Seal) - Cassini mission schedule shafer@skipper.dfrf.nasa.gov (Mary Shafer) - photos, shuttle landings smith@sndpit.enet.dec.com (Willie Smith) - photos stephen@gpwd.gp.co.nz (Stephen Dixon) - shuttle audio frequencies sterner@warper.jhuapl.edu (Ray Sterner) - planetary positions stooke@vaxr.sscl.uwo.ca (Phil Stooke) - planetary maps ted_anderson@transarc.com (Ted Anderson) - propulsion terry@astro.as.utexas.edu (Terry Hancock) - NASA center info thorson@typhoon.atmos.coloState.edu (Bill Thorson) - FITS info tm2b+@andrew.cmu.edu (Todd L. Masco) - SPACE Digest tom@ssd.csd.harris.com (Tom Horsley) - refs for algorithms veikko.makela@helsinki.fi (Veikko Makela) - orbital element sets Wales.Larrison@ofa123.fidonet.org (Wales Larrison) - groups & publications wayne@csri.utoronto.ca (Wayne Hayes) - constants weemba@libra.wistar.upenn.edu (Matthew P Wiener) - Voyager history yamada@yscvax.ysc.go.jp (Yoshiro Yamada) - ISAS/NASDA missions yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov (Peter Yee) - AMES archive server, propulsion In Net memoriam: Ted Flinn
It depends on the cause of the pneumonia. For treating bacterial pneumonia in young otherwise-healthy non-smokers, erythromycin is usually considered the antibiotic of choice, since it covers the two most-common pathogens: strep pneumoniae and mycoplasma pneumoniae.
What evidence indicates that Gamma Ray bursters are very far away? Their distribution is very isotropic and the intensity distribution, crudely speaking, indicates we're seeing an edge to the distribution. Given the enormous power, i was just wondering, what if they are quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by? Why would they have to be at galactic ranges? Now, in the good old days before GRO data, it was thought the gamma bursters were neutron stars in the galaxy, it was expected that GRO would confirm this by either showing they were a local population (within a few hundred light years) or that they were in the galactic halo. (Mechanism was not known but several plausible ones existed) (also to be fair it was noted that the _brightest_ burster was probably in the LMC, suggesting theorists might be wrong back then...) As the Sun is not at the center of the galaxy a halo population should show anisotropy (a local disk population is ruled out completely at this stage) - to avoid the anisotropy you have to push the halo out, the energy then gets large, the mechanism of getting NS out that far becomes questionable, and we should start to see for example the Andromeda's bursters. The data is consistent with either a Oort cloud distribution (but only just) - but no one can think of a plausible source with the right spectrum. Or, it can be a cosmological distances (hence isotropy) and the edge is "the edge of the Universe" ;-) If at cosmological distances you need very high energy (to detect) and a very compact source (for spectrum), ergo a neutron star colliding with another neutron star or black hole. Even then getting the spectrum is very hard, but conceivable. If we know anything about physics at that level, the bursters are not due to quantum black holes or cosmic strings, wrong spectrum for one thing. The situation is further complicated by recent claims that there are two classes of sources ;-) [in the colliding NS they'd actually probably fit relatively easily into the NS-NS and NS-BH collision scenarios respectively] my own pet theory is that it's Flying saucers entering hyperspace :-) but the reason i am asking is that most everyone assumes that they are colliding nuetron stars or spinning black holes, i just wondered if any mechanism could exist and place them closer in. If you can think of one, remember to invite me to Stockholm...
Sounds liek what the FED has to do is sign a 50 or more year lease to use certain parts of a space station that is built and designed and such by a commerical company or consortium of companies (such as like Alyeska) for a small amount of rent in return for certain incentives and such.. Such as tax and other right off and also a monopoly on certain products.. The commerical builders would have certain perks given to them to make there end easier (taxes , contracts, regulatory concesions and such..) Is it workable, just might work.. After all, if China can lease out Hong Kong and the people of Hong Kong can make money, this could work..
- Am I justified in being pissed off at this doctor? - - Last Saturday evening my 6 year old son cut his finger badly with a knife. - I took him to a local "Urgent and General Care" clinic at 5:50 pm. The [story deleted] - be bothered. My son did get three stitches at the emergency room. I'm still - trying to find out who is in charge of that clinic so I can write them a - letter. We will certainly never set foot in that clinic again. - The people in charge already know what kind of 'care' they are providing, and they don't give a rat's ass about your repeat business. You are much more likely to do some good writing to local newspapers, and broadcast news shows. If you do, keep the letter short and to the point so they don't discard it out of hand, and emphasize exactly what you are upset about. It's possible that the local health department can help you complain to someone official, but really, that 'clinic' exists for the sole purpose of generating walk-in income through advertising, and *nothing* you can do will change them -- all you can hope for is to help someone else avoid them. I'm glad it sounds like your son did ok, anyway.
Hello-- I'm currently designing the architecture of a chip which is intended to help speed up common operations on a windowing system such as X. A friend and I are designing the chip as the final course project for an advanced computer architecture course taught by Dr. Fred Brooks at UNC-Chapel Hill. While we feel that we've got a pretty solid design currently, we'd really like to get ahold of some frequency data from an X-Windows server so that we can make the most effective use of our bit budget. Unfortunately, I've been unable to find anything of this sort in the various X FAQs, or X manuals that I've seen. Does anyone have some type of frequency data, like how many Copy-rectangle operations vs draw-lines, and things of that sort? Or, barring that, a program that records requests to the server into a logfile that I can munge on myself? Any and all help would be very appreciated. Many thanks, ---Mark
------------- cut here ----------------- limits of AZT's efficacy and now suggest using the drug either sequentially with other drugs or in a kind of AIDS treatment "cocktail" combining a number of drugs to fight the virus all at once. "Treating people with AZT alone doesn't happen in the real world anymore," said Dr. Mark Jacobson of the University of California--San Francisco. Also, with recent findings indicating that HIV replicates rapidly in the lymph nodes after infection, physicians may begin pushing even harder for early treatment of HIV-infected patients. ================================================================== "New Infectious Disease Push" American Medical News (04/05/93) Vol. 36, No. 13, P. 2 The Center for Disease Control will launch a worldwide network to track the spread of infectious diseases and detect drug-resistant or new strains in time to help prevent their spread. The network is expected to cost between $75 million and $125 million but is an essential part of the Clinton administration's health reform plan, according to the CDC and outside experts. The plan will require the CDC to enhance surveillance of disease in the United States and establish about 15 facilities across the world to track disease. ===================================================================== April 13, 1993 ===================================================================== "NIH Plans to Begin AIDS Drug Trials at Earlier Stage" Nature (04/01/93) Vol. 362, No. 6419, P. 382 (Macilwain, Colin) HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 42 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 The National Institutes of Health has announced it will start treating HIV-positive patients as soon as possible after seroconversion, resulting from recent findings that show HIV is active in the body in large numbers much earlier than was previously believed. Anthony Fauci, director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), said, "We must address the question of how to treat people as early as we possibly can with drugs that are safe enough to give people for years and that will get around microbial resistance." He said any delay would signify questions over safety and resistance rather than a lack of funds. Fauci, who co- authored one of the two papers published last week in Nature, rejects the argument by one of his co-authors, Cecil Fox, that the new discovery indicates that "$1 billion spent on vaccine trials" has been "a waste of time and money" because the trials were started too long after the patients were infected and were ended too quickly. John Tew of the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond claims that the new evidence strongly backs the argument for early treatment of HIV-infected patients. AIDS activists welcomed the new information but said the scientific community has been slow to understand the significance of infection of the lymph tissue. "We've known about this for five years, but we're glad it is now in the public domain," said Jesse Dobson of the California-based Project Inform. But Peter Duesberg, who believes that AIDS is independent of HIV and is a result of drug abuse in the West, said, "We are several paradoxes away from an explanation of AIDS--even if these papers are right." ====================================================================== April 14, 1993 ====================================================================== "Risk of AIDS Virus From Doctors Found to Be Minimal" Washington Post (04/14/93), P. A9 The risk of HIV being transmitted from infected health-care professionals to patients is minimal, according to new research published in today's Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA). This finding supports previous conclusions by health experts that the chance of contracting HIV from a health care worker is remote. Three studies in the JAMA demonstrate that thousands of patients were treated by two HIV-positive surgeons and dentists without becoming infected with the virus. The studies were conducted by separate research teams in New Hampshire, Maryland, and Florida. Each study started with an HIV-positive doctor or dentist and tested all patients willing to participate. The New Hampshire study found that none of the 1,174 patients who had undergone invasive procedures by an HIV-positive orthopedic surgeon contracted HIV. In Maryland, 413 of 1,131 patients operated on by a breast surgery specialist at Johns Hopkins Hospital were found to be HIV-negative. Similarly in Florida, 900 of 1,192 dental HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 43 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 patients, who all had been treated by an HIV-positive general dentist, were tested and found to be negative for HIV. The Florida researchers, led by Gordon M. Dickinson of the University of Miami School of Medicine, said, "This study indicates that the risk for transmission of HIV from a general dentist to his patients is minimal in a setting in which universal precautions are strictly observed." Related Story: Philadelphia Inquirer (04/14) P. A6 ====================================================================== "Alternative Medicine Advocates Divided Over New NIH Research Program" AIDS Treatment News (04/02/93) No. 172, P. 6 (Gilden, Dave) The new Office of Alternative Medicine at the National Institutes of Health has raised questions about the NIH's commitment to an effort that uses unorthodox or holistic therapeutic methods. The OAM is a small division of the NIH, with its budget only at $2 million dollars compared to more than $10 billion for the NIH as a whole. In addition, the money for available research grants is even smaller. About $500,000 to $600,000 total will be available this year for 10 or 20 grants. Kaiya Montaocean, of the Center for Natural and Traditional Medicine in Washington, D.C., says the OAM is afraid to become involved in AIDS. "They have to look successful and there is no easy answer in AIDS," she said. There is also a common perception that the OAM will focus on fields the NIH establishment will find non-threatening, such as relaxation techniques and acupuncture. When the OAM called for an advisory committee conference of about 120 people last year, the AIDS community was largely missing from the meeting. In addition, activists' general lack of contact with the Office has added suspicion that the epidemic will be ignored. Jon Greenberg, of ACT-UP/New York, said, "The OAM advisory panel is composed of practitioners without real research experience. It will take them several years to accept the nature of research." Nevertheless, Dr. Leanna Standish, research director and AIDS investigator at the Bastyr College of Naturopathic Medicine in Seattle, said, "Here is a wonderful opportunity to fund AIDS research. It's only fair to give the Office time to gel, but it's up to the public to insist that it's much, much more [than public relations]." ====================================================================== "Herpesvirus Decimates Immune-cell Soldiers" Science News (04/03/93) Vol. 143, No. 14, P. 215 (Fackelmann, Kathy A.) Scientists conducting test tube experiments have found that herpesvirus- 6 can attack the human immune system's natural killer cells. This attack causes the killer cells to malfunction, diminishing an important component in the immune system's fight against diseases. Also, the herpesvirus-6 may be a factor in immune diseases, such as AIDS. In 1989, Paolo Lusso's research found that herpesvirus-6 attacks another white cell, the CD4 T-lymphocyte, which is the primary target of HIV. Lusso also found that herpesvirus-6 can HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 44 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 kill natural killer cells. Scientists previously knew that the natural killer cells of patients infected with HIV do not work correctly. Lusso's research represents the first time scientists have indicated that natural killer cells are vulnerable to any kind of viral attack, according to Anthony L. Komaroff, a researcher with Harvard Medical School. Despite the test-tube findings, scientists are uncertain whether the same result occurs in the body. Lusso's team also found that herpesvirus-6 produces the CD4 receptor molecule that provides access for HIV. CD4 T-lymphocytes express this surface receptor, making them vulnerable to HIV's attack. Researchers concluded that herpesvirus-6 cells can exacerbate the affects of HIV. ====================================================================== April 15, 1993 ==================================================================== "AIDS and Priorities in the Global Village: To the Editor" Journal of the American Medical Association (04/07/93) Vol. 269, No. 13, P. 1636 (Gellert, George and Nordenberg, Dale F.) All health-care workers are obligated and responsible for not only ensuring that politicians understand the dimensions of certain health problems, but also to be committed to related policies, write George Gellert and Dale F. Nordenberg of the Orange County Health Care Agency, Santa Ana, Calif., and the Emory University School of Public Health in Atlanta, Ga., respectively. Dr. Berkley's editorial on why American doctors should care about the AIDS epidemic beyond the United States details several reasons for the concerted interest that all countries share in combating AIDS. It should be noted that while AIDS leads in hastening global health interdependence, it is not the only illness doing so. Diseases such as malaria and many respiratory and intestinal pathogens have similarly inhibited the economic development of most of humanity and acted to marginalize large populations. Berkley mentions the enormous social and economic impact that AIDS will have on many developing countries, and the increased need for international assistance that will result. Berkley also cites the lack of political aggressiveness toward the AIDS epidemic in its first decade. But now there is a new administration with a promise of substantial differences in approach to international health and development in general, and HIV/AIDS in particular. Vice President Al Gore proposes in his book "Earth in the Balance" a major environmental initiative that includes sustainable international development, with programs to promote literacy, improve child survival, and disseminate contraceptive technology and access throughout the developing world. If enacted, this change in policy could drastically change the future of worldwide health. ==================================================================== "AIDS and Priorities in the Global Village: In Reply" Journal of the American HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 45 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Medical Association (04/07/93) Vol. 269, No. 13, P. 1636 (Berkley, Seth) Every nation should tackle HIV as early and aggressively as possible before the disease reaches an endemic state, even at a cost of diverting less attention to some other illnesses, writes Seth Berkley of the Rockefeller Foundation in New York, N.Y., in reply to a letter by Drs. Gellert and Nordenberg. Although it is true that diseases other than AIDS, such as malaria and respiratory and intestinal illnesses, have similarly inhibited economic development in developing countries and deserve much more attention than they are getting, Berkley disagrees with the contention that AIDS is receiving too much attention. HIV differs from other diseases, in most developing countries because it is continuing to spread. For most endemic diseases, the outcome of neglecting interventions for one year is another year of about the same level of needless disease and death. But with AIDS and its increasing spread, the cost of neglect, not only in disease burden but financially, is much greater. Interventions in the early part of a rampantly spreading epidemic like HIV are highly cost-effective because each individual infection prevented significantly interrupts transmission. Berkley says he agrees with Gellert and Nordenberg about the gigantic social and economic effects of AIDS and about the need for political leadership. But he concludes that not only is assertive political leadership needed in the United States for the AIDS epidemic, but even more so in developing countries with high rates of HIV infection and where complacency about the epidemic has been the rule. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 46 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: AIDS/HIV Articles :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: First HIV Vaccine Trial Begins in HIV-Infected Children H H S N E W S ******************************************************************** U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES March 29, 1993 First HIV Vaccine Therapy Trial Begins In HIV-Infected Children The National Institutes of Health has opened the first trial of experimental HIV vaccines in children who are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes AIDS. The trial will compare the safety of three HIV experimental vaccines in 90 children recruited from at least 12 sites nationwide. Volunteers must be HIV- infected but have no symptoms of HIV disease. HHS Secretary Donna E. Shalala said this initial study can be seen as "a hopeful milestone in our efforts to ameliorate the tragedy of HIV-infected children who now face the certainty they will develop AIDS." Anthony S. Fauci, M.D., director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and of the NIH Office of AIDS Research, said the trial "is the first step in finding out whether vaccines can help prevent or delay disease progression in children with HIV who are not yet sick." If these vaccines prove to be safe, more sophisticated questions about their therapeutic potential will be assessed in Phase II trials. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates 10,000 children in the United States have HIV. By the end of the decade, the World Health Organization projects 10 million children will be infected worldwide. The study will enroll children ages 1 month to 12 years old. NIAID, which funds the AIDS Clinical Trials Group network, anticipates conducting the trial at nine ACTG sites around the country and three sites participating in the ACTG but funded by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. Preliminary evidence from similar studies under way in infected adults shows that certain vaccines can boost existing HIV-specific immune responses and HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 47 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 stimulate new ones. It will be several years, however, before researchers know how these responses affect the clinical course of the disease. The results from the pediatric trial, known as ACTG 218, will be examined closely for other reasons as well. "This trial will provide the first insight into how the immature immune system responds to candidate HIV vaccines," said Daniel Hoth, M.D., director of NIAID's division of AIDS. "We need this information to design trials to test whether experimental vaccines can prevent HIV infection in children." In the United States, most HIV-infected children live in poor inner-city areas, and more than 80 percent are minorities, mainly black or Hispanic. Nearly all HIV-infected children acquire the virus from their mothers during pregnancy or at birth. An infected mother in the United States has more than a one in four chance of transmitting the virus to her baby. As growing numbers of women of childbearing age become exposed to HIV through injection drug use or infected sexual partners, researchers expect a corresponding increase in the numbers of infected children. HIV disease progresses more rapidly in infants and children than in adults. The most recent information suggests that 50 percent of infants born with HIV develop a serious AIDS-related infection by 3 to 6 years of age. These infections include severe or frequent bouts of common bacterial illnesses of childhood that can result in seizures, pneumonia, diarrhea and other symptoms leading to nutritional problems and long hospital stays. At least half of the children in the trial will be 2 years of age or younger to enable comparison of the immune responses of the younger and older participants. All volunteers must have well-documented HIV infection but no symptoms of HIV disease other than swollen lymph glands or a mildly swollen liver or spleen. They cannot have received any anti-retroviral or immune- regulating drugs within one month prior to their entry into the study. Study chair John S. Lambert, M.D., of the University of Rochester Medical School, and co- chair Samuel Katz, M.D., of Duke University School of Medicine, will coordinate the trial assisted by James McNamara, M.D., medical officer in the pediatric medicine branch of NIAID's division of AIDS. "We will compare the safety of the vaccines by closely monitoring the children for any side effects, to see if one vaccine produces more swollen arms or fevers, for example, than another," said Dr. McNamara. "We'll also look at whether low or high doses of the vaccines stimulate immune responses or other significant laboratory or clinical effects." He emphasized that the small study size precludes comparing these responses or effects among the three HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 48 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 products. The trial will test two doses each of three experimental vaccines made from recombinant HIV proteins. These so-called subunit vaccines, each genetically engineered to contain only a piece of the virus, have so far proved well- tolerated in ongoing trials in HIV-infected adults. One vaccine made by MicroGeneSys Inc. of Meriden, Conn., contains gp160--a protein that gives rise to HIV's surface proteins--plus alum adjuvant. Adjuvants boost specific immune responses to a vaccine. Presently, alum is the only adjuvant used in human vaccines licensed by the Food and Drug Administration. Both of the other vaccines--one made by Genentech Inc. of South San Francisco and the other by Biocine, a joint venture of Chiron and CIBA-Geigy, in Emeryville, Calif.--contain the major HIV surface protein, gp120, plus adjuvant. The Genentech vaccine contains alum, while the Biocine vaccine contains MF59, an experimental adjuvant that has proved safe and effective in other Phase I vaccine trials in adults. A low dose of each product will be tested first against a placebo in 15 children. Twelve children will be assigned at random to be immunized with the experimental vaccine, and three children will be given adjuvant alone, considered the placebo. Neither the health care workers nor the children will be told what they receive. If the low dose is well-tolerated, controlled testing of a higher dose of the experimental vaccine and adjuvant placebo in another group of 15 children will begin. Each child will receive six immunizations--one every four weeks for six months--and be followed-up for 24 weeks after the last immunization. For more information about the trial sites or eligibility for enrollment, call the AIDS Clinical Trials Information Service, 1-800-TRIALS-A, from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., EST weekdays. The service has Spanish-speaking information specialists available. Information on NIAID's pediatric HIV/AIDS research is available from the Office of Communications at (301) 496- 5717. NIH, CDC and FDA are agencies of the U.S. Public Health Service in HHS. For press inquiries only, please call Laurie K. Doepel at (301) 402-1663. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 49 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 NEW EVIDENCE THAT THE HIV CAN CAUSE DISEASE INDEPENDENTLY News from the National Institute of Dental Research There is new evidence that the human immunodeficiency virus can cause disease independently of its ability to suppress the immune system, say scientists at the National Institues of Health. They report that HIV itself, not an opportunistic infection, caused scaling skin conditions to develop in mice carrying the genes for HIV. Although the HIV genes were active in the mice, they did not compromise the animals' immunity, the researchers found. This led them to conclude that the HIV itself caused the skin disease. Our findings support a growing body of evidence that HIV can cause disease without affecting the immune system, said lead author Dr. Jeffrey Kopp of the National Institute of Dental Research (NIDR). Dr. Kopp and his colleagues described their study in the March issue of AIDS Research and Human Retroviruses. Developing animal models of HIV infection has been difficult, since most animals, including mice, cannot be infected by the virus. To bypass this problem, scientists have developed HIV-transgenic mice, which carry genes for HIV as well as their own genetic material. NIDR scientists created the transgenic mice by injecting HIV genes into mouse eggs and then implanting the eggs into female mice. The resulting litters contained both normal and transgenic animals. Institute scientists had created mice that carried a complete copy of HIV genetic material in l988. Those mice, however, became sick and died too soon after birth to study in depth. In the present study, the scientists used an incomplete copy of HIV, which allowed the animals to live longer. Some of the transgenic animals developed scaling, wart-like tumors on their necks and backs. Other transgenic mice developed thickened, crusting skin lesions that covered most of their bodies, resembling psoriasis in humans. No skin lesions developed in their normal, non-transgenic littermates. Studies of tissue taken from the wart-like skin tumors showed that they were a type of noncancerous tumor called papilloma. Although the papillomavirus can cause these skin lesions, laboratory tests showed no sign of that virus in the animals. Tissue samples taken from the sick mice throughout the study revealed the presence of a protein-producing molecule made by the HIV genetic material. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 50 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Evidence of HIV protein production proved that the viral genes were "turned on," or active, said Dr. Kopp. The scientists found no evidence, however, of compromised immunity in the mice: no increase in their white blood cell count and no signs of common infections. The fact that HIV genes were active but the animals' immune systems were not suppressed confirms that the virus itself was causing the skin lesions, Dr. Kopp said. Further proof of HIV gene involvement came from a test in which the scientists exposed the transgenic animals to ultraviolet light. The light increased HIV genetic activity causing papillomas to develop on formerly healthy skin. Papilloma formation in response to increased HIV genetic activity proved the genes were responsible for the skin condition, the scientists said. No lesions appeared on normal mice exposed to the UV light. The transgenic mice used in this study were developed at NIDR by Dr. Peter Dickie, who is now with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Collaborating on the study with Dr. Kopp were Mr. Charles Wohlenberg, Drs. Nickolas Dorfman, Joseph Bryant, Abner Notkins, and Paul Klotman, all of NIDR; Dr. Stephen Katz of the National Cancer Institute; and Dr. James Rooney, formerly with NIDR and now with Burroughs Wellcome. HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 51 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 Clinical Consultation Telephone Service for AIDS H H S N E W S ******************************************** U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES March 4, 1993 HHS Secretary Donna E. Shalala today announced the first nationwide clinical consultation telephone service for doctors and other health care professionals who have questions about providing care to people with HIV infection or AIDS. The toll-free National HIV Telephone Consulting Service is staffed by a physician, a nurse practitioner and a pharmacist. It provides information on drugs, clinical trials and the latest treatment methods. The service is funded by the Health Resources and Services Administration and operates out of San Francisco General Hospital. Secretary Shalala said, "One goal of this project is to share expertise so patients get the best care. A second goal is to get more primary health care providers involved in care for people with HIV or AIDS, which reduces treatment cost by allowing patients to remain with their medical providers and community social support networks. Currently, many providers refer patients with HIV or AIDS to specialists or other providers who have more experience." Secretary Shalala said, "This clinical expertise should be especially helpful for physicians and providers who treat people with HIV or AIDS in communities and clinical sites where HIV expertise is not readily available." The telephone number for health care professionals is 1-800-933-3413, and it is accessible from 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. EST (7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. PST) Monday through Friday. During these times, consultants will try to answer questions immediately, or within an hour. At other times, physicians and health care providers can leave an electronic message, and questions will be answered as quickly as possible. Health care professionals may call the service to ask any question related to providing HIV care, including the latest HIV/AIDS drug treatment information, clinical trials information, subspecialty case referral, literature searches and other information. The service is designed for health care professionals rather than patients, families or others who have alternate sources of information or materials. When a health care professional calls the new service, the call is taken by either a clinical pharmacist, primary care physician or family nurse practitioner. All staff members have extensive experience in outpatient and inpatient primary care for people with HIV-related diseases. The consultant asks for patient-specific information, including CD4 cell count, current medications, sex, age and the patient's HIV history. This national service has grown out of a 16-month local effort that HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 52 Volume 6, Number 10 April 20, 1993 responded to nearly 1,000 calls from health care providers in northern California. The initial project was funded by HRSA's Bureau of Health Professions, through its Community Provider AIDS Training (CPAT) project, and by the American Academy of Family Physicians. "When providers expand their knowledge, they also improve the quality of care they are able to provide to their patients," said HRSA Administrator Robert G. Harmon. M.D., M.P.H. "This project will be a great resource for health care professionals and the HIV/AIDS patients they serve." "This service has opened a new means of communication between health care professionals and experts on HIV care management," said HRSA's associate administrator for AIDS and director of the Bureau of Health Resources Development, G. Stephen Bowen, M.D., M.P.H. "Providers who treat people with HIV or AIDS have access to the latest information on new drugs, treatment methods and therapies for people with HIV or AIDS." HRSA is one of eight U.S. Public Health Service agencies within HHS. AIDS Hotline Numbers for Consumers CDC National AIDS Hotline -- 1-800-342-AIDS for information in Spanish - 1-800-344-SIDA AIDS Clinical Trials (English & Spanish) -- 1-800-TRIALS-A HICNet Medical Newsletter Page 53 ------------- cut here ----------------- -- This is the last part ---------------
Sure, I can. The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Motorcycles, edited by Erwin Tragatsch, was published by The Hamlyn Publishing Group Limited, Astronaut House, Hounslow Road, Feltham, Middlesex, England. It was first published in 1977, and mine was reprinted in 1978. Cost then was Pounds 5.95 in the UK, though I paid 18.50 for it in Canadian dollars. I have no idea whether it's still in print. Perhaps you could let the net know. Bob.
By the way, what do people think about the Opel CAlibra?
Thanks for these surreal moments.... Srinivas
Do you or does anyone you know have a wrecked 1981 or later R80(anything) or R100(anything) that they are interested in getting rid of? I need a motor, but will buy a whole bike. email replies to: David.Braun@FtCollinsCO.NCR.com or: dab@vuse.vanderbilt.edu
This morning a truck that had been within my sight (and I within his) for about 3 miles suddenly forgot that I existed and pulled over right on me -- my front wheel was about even with the back edge of his front passenger door as I was accelerating past him. It was trivial enough for me to tap the brakes and slide behind him as he slewed over (with no signal, of course) on top of me, with my little horn blaring (damn, I need Fiamms!), but the satisfaction of being aware of my surroundings and thus surviving was not enough, especially when I later pulled up alongside the bastard and he made no apologetic wave or anything. Is there some way that I can memorize the license plate of an offending vehicle and get the name and address of the owner? I'm not going to firebomb houses or anything, I'd just like to write a consciousness-raising letter or two. I think that it would be good for BDI cagers to know that We Know Where They Live. Maybe they'd use 4 or 5 brain cells while driving instead of the usual 3.
My mom has just been diagnosed with cystic breast disease -- a big relief, as it was a lump that could have been cancer. Her doctor says she should go off caffeine and chocolate for 6 months, as well as stopping the estrogen she's been taking for menopause-related reasons. She's not thrilled with this, I think especially because she just gave up cigarettes -- soon she won't have any pleasures left! Now, I thought I'd heard that cystic breasts were common and not really a health risk. Is this accurate? If so, why is she being told to make various sacrifices to treat something that's not that big of a deal? Thanks for any information. -- Chris -- black@sybase.com
Posted by Cathy Smith for L. Neil Smith LETTER TO A LIBERAL COLLEAGUE [AUTHOR'S NOTE: "Adrian" -- name changed to protect the guilty -- and the author are science fiction novelists who once worked with the same editor at a famous New York publishing house.] Dear Adrian: I'm way behind schedule on my current book again, so this reply to your note -- criticizing the recent magazine interview I gave and generally attacking gun ownership -- will necessarily consist mostly of assertions you're free to believe (or not) I can back with evidence and logic I've neither time nor energy to present now. I've written fully on this topic before and will again in the future. When I do, I'll make sure you get copies. There are many arguments I might make, from the futility and danger of delegating self-defense to the police (see Don Kates in the Jan. 10, 1985 WALL STREET JOURNAL) to the real effect of prohibition, shifting consumers from newly-outlawed handguns or semiautomatic rifles to items like sawed-off shotguns or homemade bombs, but I'll limit myself here to commenting on the newspaper clipping you sent with your note. First, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Second, publication of some latter-day "scientific study" doesn't alter the fact that the gun prohibitionists I discussed in my interview -- annoying you so much in the process -- were lying. Third, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Fourth, as often happens with these things, the "study" doesn't support the gun prohibitionists' original numerical contentions anyway, but simply adds a new layer of spurious claims to an older body of lies, omissions, and distortions. Fifth, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Sixth, the fact that gun prohibitionists have been caught lying on countless occasions (Carl Bakal, author of NO RIGHT TO KEEP AND BEAR ARMS, even confessed to it publicly) makes the value of this present "study" dubious, to say the least. Seventh, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Eighth, given your own lifelong service as a federal bureaucrat (not to mention the cynical sophistication of your fiction), you should be better aware than most people how "progress" -- in designing "studies" to prove whatever you want -- outstrips our ability to collect meaningful data. A case in point we might agree on is the fact that it took another kind of prohibitionist 20 or 30 years to create "studies" "proving" that pornography causes crime. More naive (and probably more honest) efforts in the 50s and 60s clearly indicate the contrary. Ninth, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Tenth, another reason to doubt all such "studies" is that human behavior (as the Austrian School of economics demonstrates) is far too complex and unpredictable to be meaningfully quantified. The attempt to do so -- and then create public policy based on the resulting pseudo-information -- is wrecking our civilization. Eleventh, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. Twelfth, the "study" is also worthless because it incorporates figures for suicide, which is not necessarily a tragedy but basically another individual right, sometimes with ancillary social benefits. If anything, perhaps suicide INTERVENTION should be a criminal offense. Thirteenth and finally, the National Rifle Association officials quoted in the article, whatever their shortcomings (and they are many), are correct in this instance: the "study" is meaningless because the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and Constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process nor to arguments grounded in social utility. And because of that, Adrian, even if the "study" were valid, it wouldn't deter me from a lifelong personal objective of seeing that anyone can own any weapon he or she prefers and carry it however, whenever, and wherever he or she desires without asking anybody's permission. In this I'm ably assisted by gun prohibitionists themselves, whose yawping invariably moves previously unarmed people to go out and buy their first gun "while they still can". Before the '68 Gun Control Act, most of the "shooting fraternity" viewed handguns (incorrectly, as it turned out) as inaccurate, ineffective toys. There probably weren't six million of them in the whole country. Now, thanks to Kennedy, Metzenbaum, the Bradys, and their ilk -- AMERICA'S GREATEST SPORTING GOODS SALES TEAM -- we probably manufacture at least that many every year. The fascinating datum is that Handgun Control, et al. are perfectly aware of this -- so I guess you'll have to ask them yourself what their real motives are. Look: gun-making isn't an arcane or difficult art (and by the way, it's easier to make a fully automatic weapon than a semiautomatic; the fact that I can still obtain my own weapon of preference, the self-loading pistol, is the only thing which keeps me from pursuing this further). Even if it were difficult, there are already a quarter billion firearms in America, with an estimated "half life" of 1000 years -- possibly more for stainless steel. Guns are gonna be around a long time, Adrian, whether you like it or not. As for me, to paraphrase Elmer Keith, regardless of what the law provides or any court decides, I'm always going to be armed. And I will always work to see that others are, as well. The bad news is that there are thousands more -- perhaps even hundreds of thousands -- where I come from. We can't be stopped by passing laws, we can only be forced to arm ourselves and others secretly and -- given both the practical and alleged differences between full automatics and semiautomatics -- perhaps more efficiently. So what's the point? L. Neil Smith Author: THE PROBABILITY BROACH, THE CRYSTAL EMPIRE, HENRY MARTYN, and (forthcoming) PALLAS LEVER ACTION BBS (303) 493-6674, FIDOnet: 1:306/31.4 Libertarian Second Amendment Caucus NRA Life Member
just to satiate my curiosity, why would this make you the stupid one? It seems to me, everybody SHOULD be aware enough of what is going on. You do not need to calculate the future position. You need to look at your mirrors a little more. If you glance around, you will be able to tell how much faster than you the car is going. Maybe not precisely, but well enough to know if you should let him around before you try to pass. I know what you are talking about, about the other driver being startled, because i myself have been startled by drivers cruising by at around 90-100mph when i'm doin 55-65. The problem, though, as i saw it, was not their fault for barreling around me, but my fault for not paying the attention to my task-at-hand that i should have been. Oddly enough, since the 2nd time(happened 2x in around 4 mo. when i'd had my liscence for around 6 mo), i haven't been startled..and i've been passed by cars doing roughly twice the speed of my car. Another odd occurance is the fact that this only seems to happen on LONG trips...and if i drive along with them, it doesn't happen at all :-) even on the long trips! :-) (adrenaline will do that to you...i've had bad cop experiences with speeding, so anything over the limit is adrenalizing for me...scared i'll get caught :-) Maybe they should raise the limit, so we can pay better attention..... just curious, and my .otwo
mjs>No No No No!! All I am saying is that you don't even need to tell people mjs>the technique of countersteering, cos they will do it intuitively the first mjs>time they try to go round a corner. karr>Are you sure? Remember that you *can* get around corners without karr>countersteering. In fact, my Experienced Rider Course instructors karr>claimed that they could get on behind a new rider and make the bike karr>turn to whichever side they wanted just by shifting their weight karr>around, even when the operator was trying to turn in the opposite karr>direction. (I admit I've never actually seen this.) I've experienced this, back when I was young(er) and (more) foolish... My first bike used to track extremely true. Going down the highway, I would set the throttle tension screw up enough to hold the gas steady, slide back on the seat and lean against the backrest, riding without any hands. If I needed to turn, I'd shift my weight into the turn, and lo and behold, the bike would turn, sans touching the bars! Granted, it wouldn't turn very fast, but it proves that you can turn a bike without countersteering, at least not in terms of the input to the bar normally associated with countersteering. As I've said, I know many people who think all you do is lean, and any input they're giving to the bar is totally unconscious. Whereas that may be sufficient to get you down the road under normal circumstances, possibly for years at a stretch, I can't think of anybody who'd argue that this is preferable to properly knowing how to manipulate the bar in a turn, regardless of what you want to call it. Except maybe for Mr. Sixsmith... ;^) Mr. Bill
It's the Unix Domain Socket (local connection) to your XServer. Try to rm it :)
They light the highways in Texas? Funny, everywhere else I've been they only light 'em at junctions. I won't even get into how much road markings vary between states and localities except to say that there are some areas where markings are essentially nonexistant. I suspect you have very limited experience -- US freeways vary dramatically, particularly between states. I can name a number of interstate highways in various parts of the country where 130 would be very optimistic in any car. I'm not sure what you call "quite severe" in terms of road deviations but I suspect every single bridge junction on I84 through CT would be considered so. They're hard to take at 85mph. That's not the only interstate I've seen with such deviations, but it's one I drive frequently. Texas is pretty much an edge-case -- you can't assume that everywhere has roads in such good condition, such flat terrain, and such wide-open spaces. It just ain't so.
The speculum is the little cone that fits on the end of the otoscope. There are also vaginal specula that females and gynecologists are all too familiar with. -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
To start with, no methodology or form of reasoning is infallible. So there's a question of how much certainty we are willing to pay for in a given context. Insistence on too much rigor bogs science down completely and makes progress impossible. (Expenditure of sufficiently large sums of money and amounts of time can sometimes overcome this.) On the other hand, with too little rigor much is lost by basing work on results which eventually turn out to be false. There is a morass of studies contradicting other studies and outsiders start saying "You people call THIS science?" (My opinion, for what it's worth, is that one sees both these phenomena happening simultaneously in some parts of psychology.) Some subjective judgement is required to decide on the level of rigor appropriate for a particular investigation. I don't believe it is ever possible to banish subjective judgement from science. My second point, though, is that highly capable people can often make extremely reliable judgements about scientific validity even when using methodology considered inadequate by the usual standards. I think this is true of many scientists and I think it is true of many who approach their discipline in a way that is not generally recognized as scientific. Within mathematics, I think there are several examples, especially before the twentieth century. One conspicuous case is that of Riemann, who is famous for many theorems he stated but did not prove. (Later mathematicians did prove them, of course.) I think that for a good scientist, empirical investigation is often not so much a matter of determining what is true and what's not as it is a matter of convincing other people. (People have proposed lots of incompatible definitions of science here, but I think the ability to objectively convince others of the validity of one's results is an essential element. Not that one can necessarily do that at every step of the scientific process, but I think that if one is not moving toward that goal then one is not doing science.) When a person other than a scientist is quite good at what he does and seems to be very successful at it, I think that his judgements are also worthy of respect and that his assertions are well worth further investigation. Admittedly, my question was not at all well posed. A considerable amount of effort in a "serious scholarly investigation" such as I suggested would be required simply to formulate an appropriately specific question to try and answer. The "science" I was thinking of in my question is the actual science currently practiced now in the last decade of the twentieth century. I certainly wasn't thinking of some idealized science or the mere use of "reason and observation." One thing I had in mind in my suggestion was the question as to whether in many cases the subjective judgements of skilled and experienced practitioners might be more reliable than statistical studies. Since Russell Turpin seems to be much more familiar than I am with the study of scientific methodology, perhaps he can tell us if there is any existing research related to this question. -- In the arguments between behaviorists and cognitivists, psychology seems less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects.
Concurrent has a product called RealTimeX (tm) that is a set of real-time extensions to the X Window System. RealTimeX is currently supported on the Concurrent Series 7000 and Series 8000 with the GA5000 graphics accelerator. If you need/want more info, let me know. - sam black ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Once you remove the absurdity from human existence, there isn't much left. __________ / _______/__ /__/______/ / black@westford.ccur.com Concurrent /_________/ Computer Corporation
: My next project is to come up with an IF/detector module for fast -- 112 : to 250 kB/sec -- packet radio use. No fancy modulation scheme, just : wide FSK for use at 902 or 1296 MHz. : I'm a bit familiar with the Motorola 3362 chip, but I wonder if there : are newer designs that might work at higher input frequencies. : My goal is to come up with an inexpensive design for a receiver "back : end" with IF input on one end and an FSK demondulator on the other. I'm : particularly interested in ways to use a higher IF than 10.7 -- do any : current chips work up to, say 150MHz with internal downconversion so a : normal IF filter can be used? : Any suggestions? : John What you describe is very close to what I built and described in the 10th ARRL Computer Network Conference proceedings. I built 10 watt FSK transceivers at 904 MHz. They are essentially double conversion transverters with digital mod and demod at 29 MHz. The receiver uses the MC13055 which is the same FSK receiver chip I used previouslyu in the 2 Mbps 10 GHz data link I first published in Ham Radio and which is now also in the ARRL handbook. The MC3356, which includes a VHF converter section, could also be used at these speeds. There is a newer and perhaps slightly improved design of this (the MC13056 if I remember rightly). While using this would have let me reduce the "external" IF count on receive, it didn't really offer all that much help on transmit so I didn't bother with it. The radios I built were first designed and built for 512 kbps in a 2 MHz channel but later reduced to half that. These 256 kbps radios actually have done quite well in across-the-bench tests at 384 kbps and speed is pretty much a function of filter design. Handling the data stream is another matter entirely. Some of the existing radios are currently deployed on hilltops in a "beacon" test mode. While there is not yet end-end two-way data flow due to lack of resources to debug software for the digital hardware (MIO also shown in the CNC proceedings), data is perfect copy at n6gn. Even though the data clock is currently at about half speed, the a 2+ kbytes of the test text (chapter 55 of Isaiah) takes only a little over 1/8 of a second. I've been hoping that someone would get interested enough to step in and get involved in writing code to make the whole thing usable (Borland IDE environment with remote debugging possible as mentioned in the proceedings) but to date a couple of us have been on our own and running low on resources of time, money and energy. If anyone in the SF bay area wants to check it out there is also a CW ID after the text on the mark side at 904.740 MHz from beacons on Sonoma Mtn and Black Mtn (overlooking Si valley). The antenna is horizontally polarized. I guess in retrospect my suggestions are that this is a fairly costly approach if the radios are intended for users rather than backbones and you might want to carefully consider your "target". If you can't arrange your paths such that you have complete line-of-sight I think you'll want to address the inter-symbol-interference caused by multipath and probably link C/N budgets if paths are very far from LOS. For more details, see the 10th CNC. I'm currently working on a spread spectrum, direct conversion design to address some of these problems. I'd be glad to help as I can with any design problems. 73 Glenn Elmore n6gn
Which, as it turns out, is just about everybody that's serious about horses. What a bunch of weenie fashion nerds. And the helmets suck. I'm wearing my Shoei mountain bike helmet - fuck em.>>> Nah, I can still walk unaided. -- Go fast. Take chances.
I doubt there are good prospects for a self armoring system for venus surface conditions (several hundred degrees, very high pressure of CO2, possibly sulfuric and nitric acids or oxides but it is a notion to consider for outer planets rs where you might pick up ices under less extream upper atmosphere conditions buying deeper penetration. A nice creative idea, unlikly but worthy of thinking about.
"Diet Evangelist". Good term. Fits Atkins to a "T". -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Gordon Banks N3JXP | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu | it is shameful to surrender it too soon."
My Native American Girlfriend asks: "If the government really doesn't 'care a hill of beans' about our religion, how come they're still busting us for it in Oregon, Washington, and a few other places? You'd be a Christian, too, if the U.S. Army marched you into church at gunpoint."
Do anyone know about any shading program based on Xlib in the public domain? I need an example about how to allocate correct colormaps for the program. Appreciate the help.
You mean he talks about those Jews, who, because of their self hatred, spend all their time attacking Judaism, Jews, and Israel, using the most despicable of anti-Semetic stereotypes? I don't think we need to coin a term like "Jedeo-Nazism" to refer to those Jews who, in their endless desire to be accepted by the Nazis, do their dirty work for them. We can just call them house Jews, fools, or anti-Semites from Jewish families. I think "house Jews," a reference to a person of Jewish ancestry who issues statements for a company or organization that condemn Judaism is perfectly sufficeint. I think a few years free of their anti-Semetic role models would do wonders for most of them. Adam Adam Shostack adam@das.harvard.edu
AllTall Cool OneWhat's a good IC for RS23 TC>From: rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (Tall Cool One ) TC>Organization: University of Illinois at Urbana TC>I'm looking for an IC that will convert RS232 voltage levels to TTL vo TC>levels. Something relatively inexpensive would be nice, too. Anyone TC>a suggestion?? Thanks. Try a Maxim "MAX232CPE" 8 pin dil, converts 5V to 12V for 232commms. What a clever little gizmo!
Good point...also, I wouldn't be surprised that the components they use off-shore are of inferior quality. As long as it was properly designed and robust, premium components are used, it shouldn't matter where it is assembled. An amp that runs hot has no bearing on how it's gonna sound. The amp you have probably is running Class-A the whole day. Actually, I'd be wary of excessively hot amps, 'cauz even though the components inside may be rated to run that way, excessive heat will dramatically shorten the life of *any* electronic component regardless of quality. In fact, an amp that does run hot to the touch is because either the engineer or manufacturer of that amp wanted to skimp on heatsinking or cooling to save costs! Hmmmmm.... aaron
Anyone, I am a serious motorcycle enthusiast without a motorcycle, and to put it bluntly, it sucks. I really would like some advice on what would be a good starter bike for me. I do know one thing however, I need to make my first bike a good one, because buying a second any time soon is out of the question. I am specifically interested in racing bikes, (CBR 600 F2, GSX-R 750). I know that this may sound kind of crazy considering that I've never had a bike before, but I am responsible, a fast learner, and in love. Please give me any advice that you think would help me in my search, including places to look or even specific bikes that you want to sell me. Thanks :-)
peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (Peter Tryndoch) writes... Yes there is. Not common for CB. The pattern is different (sort of a cloverleaf, with four main lobes. Use of anything under 1/4 wave for transmitting is very uncommon. (The usual "rubber duck" uses a coil to fool itself into looking like a quarter wave. I reccomend the ARRL Antenna Handbook, or a good basic book.
Hi, Right now I should do some characterization of opamps. Because I don't have special equipment for this task, I have to do this job with relativly simple equipments (Frequency sweeper, DSO, etc.). Does anyone know good test circuitry for characterization of opamps? Especially for measuring open-loop gain, phase margin, PSSR, CMMR and so on. Are there any books or application notes on this subject available? Please reply vi e-mail or nn. Thanks Mark
For an all out sports car, I'd go for the RX-7 without the sports suspension (which is too stiff.) For a little more practicality and more comfort, the Nissan 300ZX Turbo is a good buy. And for a good dose of luxury, the Lexus SC300 is perfect (with a manual transmission of course.) However, the Toyota Supra is coming out soon and if you like it's looks, the performance is supposed to be great, almost race car like. I don't particulary like the Mitsubishi 3000GT's or the Dodge Stealths as they are too heavy and aren't very nimble handlers for a sports car. -- A motion picture major at the Brooks Institute of Photography, CA Santa Barbara and a foreign student from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
I just had my 41 Chrysler painted. I was told to refrain from waxing it and to leave it out in the sun!! Supposedly this let's the volatiles escape from the paint over a month or so (I can smell it 15 feet away on a hot day) and lets any slight irregularites in the surface flow out, as the paint remains a little soft for a while.
Have you set the foreground and background colors in w_gc1 to something other than 0 and 1? The WhitePixel and BlackPixel macros on your server may not return values suitable for depth 1 drawables. Are you sure that the fifth plane of the data isn't all the same? You could have different pixel values in the image, but the fifth plane (0x10 == 16) might all be the same value? If you just want to see the plane of data and want better performance, don't use ClipMasks, just use pixmap1 as the stipple in a stippled rectangle fill. Many servers are very stupid about handling complex clip lists, and turn a bitmap clip region into hundreds and hundreds of little clipping rectangles, and clips every drawing primitive against every one of these little triangles. Actually, I must also ask the FAQ's #1 most popular reason why graphics don't show up: do you wait for an expose event before drawing your rectangle?
We all know this will never happen. Because the Police are under the wings of Government, they will always be considered more important than Citizens. Government pens, pencils and paper are considered more important than Citizens.
I wonder if the AMA has an exact listing of "lives saved" in Tennessee, California, and other waiting period states.
Well thank you dennis for your as usual highly detailed and informative posting. The question i have about the proton, is could it be handled at one of KSC's spare pads, without major malfunction, or could it be handled at kourou or Vandenberg? Now if it uses storables, then how long would it take for the russians to equip something at cape york? If Proton were launched from a western site, how would it compare to the T4/centaur? As i see it, it should lift very close to the T4.
I expect what is going on here is that your colormap is full and, when the new application starts up, it cannot add the colors that it needs to the colormap. It therefore has to pick and choose from the existing colors. This makes it look ugly until it's window gets priority. Then Macx changes the colormap so that the selected app is getting the exact colors it wanted, but now other applications are having to make do with it's colormap. This is a problem with all color X servers (or at least all color Xservers I have seen) when the demands of the applications exceed the size of the colormap. My solution is usually to (1) avoid colormap-greedy apps and (2) display applications where color is just icing on the cake in monochrome mode rather than in color (if this is an option for the application). - Doug Shaker voice: 415/572-0200 fax: 415/572-1300 email: dshaker@qualix.com mail: Qualix Group 1900 S. Norfolk St., #224 San Mateo, CA 94403
I'm looking for brief information on new applications of electronics (or new electronics in applications.) If you know of any interesting new stuff, I would be intrested in hearing about it.
^^^^^^^^^^ I have a 92 Wrangler Sahara and paid $14.1 new (including the rebate). ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ After driving a CJ-5 for 6 years, that fancy stuff is pretty nice. ^^^^^^^^^^^ I like my Wrangler, but when doing some serious off roading, it can't keep up with a CJ-5 because of ground clearance and limited suspension travel. I do have a winch and would like to get an ARB air-locker in the future. I love the 4.0.
In fairness, we should note that if you look up "speculum" in the dictionary (which I did when this question first surfaced), the first definition is "a mirror or polished metal plate used as a reflector in optical instruments." Which doesn't mean the name fits in this context, but it's not as far off as you might think.
As the subject says - Can I use a 4052 for digital signals? I don't see why it couldn't handle digital signals, but I could be wrong. Anyone have any advice? Thanks.
/////// And we thought the unfortunate people in the Branch Dividians were Brainwashed ?? They don't hold a candle to this guy...... D:d :wq
Does anyone have a rear wheel for a PD they'd like to part with? Does anyone know where I might find one salvage? As long as I'm getting the GIVI luggage for Brunnhilde and have the room, I thought I'd carry a spare. Ride Free, Bill ___________________________________________________________________ johnsw@wsuvm1.csc.wsu.edu prez=BIMC KotV KotRR DoD #00314 AMA #580924 SPI = 7.18 WMTC #0002 KotD #0001 Yamabeemer fj100gs1200pdr650 Special and a Volvo. What more could anyone ask?
I've recently picked up some TIL311 display chips, but I can't find any information on them. It seems they are no longer made by TI, and I don't have an old enough data book. :-( It appears to have a dot-matrix led display capable of showing one hex digit. It is in a 14 pin DIP package, but pins 6, 9, and 11 are not present. If you have any information on this part (pinout, power requirments, functions, ...) please send me e-mail. Thank You,
Nick Haines sez; Level 5? Out of how many? What are the different levels? I've never heard of this rating system. Anyone care to clue me in? -Tommy Mac ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tom McWilliams 517-355-2178 wk \\ As the radius of vision increases, 18084tm@ibm.cl.msu.edu 336-9591 hm \\ the circumference of mystery grows.
Several years ago I tried to commit a patient who was growing Salmonella out of his stool, blood, and an open ulcer for treatment. The idea was that the guy was a walking public health risk, and that forcing him to receive IV antibiotics for a few days was in the public interest. I will make a long story short by saying that the judge laughed at my idea, yelled at me for wasting his time, and let the guy go. I found out that tuberculosis appears to be the only MEDICAL (as oppsed to psychiatric) condition that one can be committed for, and this is because very specific laws were enacted many years ago regarding tb. I am certain these vary from state to state. Any legal experts out there to help us on this?
Could someone PLEASE give a guess as to why this simple little program causes a BadPixmap error on the FOURTH (bizarre???) call to XtRelaizeWidget()? Here is the code: int stoploop = 0; static void Callback(Widget, XtPointer, XtPointer); main() { XtToolkitInitialize(); XtAppContext app = XtCreateApplicationContext(); while (1) { int junk = 0; Display *dis = XtOpenDisplay(app, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, 0, &junk, NULL); Widget top = XtAppCreateShell(NULL, NULL, applicationShellWidgetClass, dis, NULL, 0); Widget box = XtVaCreateManagedWidget("x", xmPushButtonWidgetClass, top, XmNheight, 25, XmNwidth, 25, NULL); XtAddCallback(box, XmNactivateCallback, Callback, NULL); XtRealizeWidget(top); while (!stoploop) { XEvent event; XtAppNextEvent(app, &event); XtDispatchEvent(&event); } stoploop = 0; XtReleaseGC(top, XDefaultGCOfScreen(XtScreen(top))); // needed? XtDestroyWidget(top); XtCloseDisplay(dis); } } static void Callback(Widget, XtPointer, XtPointer) { stoploop = 1; } The error I get (yes, the 4TH time I try to show the box) is: X Error of failed request: BadPixmap (invalid Pixmap parameter) Major opcode of failed request: 55 (X_CreateGC) Resource id in failed request: 0xd0000d Serial number of failed request: 71 Current serial number in output stream: 85 Please respond via email. Thanks very, very much! (NOTE: I realize this program does nothing useful, its an ultra-trivialized version fo a real library routine) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- David Rex Wood -- davewood@cs.colorado.edu -- University of Colorado at Boulder
DIs it possible to track down "zuma" and determine who/what/where "seradr" is? If not, why not? I assu\me his/her/its identity is not shielded by policies similar to those in place at "anonymous" services.
Now you know why I am just a DOD member. I like bikes and clubs but the politics and other b*llsh*t is a real turn-off. -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- "Tuba" (Irwin) "I honk therefore I am" CompuTrac-Richardson,Tx irwin@cmptrc.lonestar.org DoD #0826 (R75/6)
I hate to pour cold water on this, but currently seawater extracted uranium, even using the new, improved fiber absorbers from Japan, is about 20 times more expensive than uranium on the spot market. Uranium is *very* cheap right now, around $10/lb. Right now, there are mines closing because they can't compete with places like Cigar Lake in Canada (where the ore is so rich they present safety hazards to the mines, who work in shielded vehicles). Plenty of other sources (for example, uranium from phosphate processing) would come on line before uranium reached $200/lb. "Demand and supply balance will collapse" is nonsense. Supply and demand always balance; what changes is the price. Is uranium going to increase in price by a factor of 20 by the end of the century? Not bloody likely. New nuclear reactors are not being built at a sufficient rate. Uranium from seawater is interesting, but it's a long term project, or a project that the Japanese might justify on grounds of self-sufficiency.
Where can I get xman source? I would like to get the binaries for xman for an HP 9000/700, but I would settle for source. --
I just visited the NY Auto Show, and saw two LH cars on the floor: Eagle Vision and Dodge Intrepid. Really nice I must say. Very attractive styling, lots of features and room, at a competitive price. Unfortunately, the workmanship is quite disappointing. On BOTH cars, the rubber seals around the window and door fell off. It turns out the seals are just big grooved rubber band. It goes on just by pressing the groove against the tongue on the door frame. Surely it would come off easily. I am not sure how many of this kind of pooring engineering/assembly problems that will show up later. I may still consider buying it, but only when it establishes a good track record.
[] "I read an article in the 3/25 Chicago Tribune stating that Chrysler is having problems addressing the demand for the 3.5L engine for it's LH cars. Can anyone post how long they are waiting for an ordered car or how long they have been told they'll have to wait??" Ordered mine December 30, got it nine weeks later. But the dealer said that *new* orders were being held up -- he didn't expect to see any more 3.5L-engine LHs for awhile.
Obviously never rode a good 250 or open-class bike!
Sorry guys for this long article, but in fact it is mostly quotings.. well, if you just waited for 5 more lines you would have read my statement "Secondly, surely israeli have human rights, but ..." because they belong to the human race, or do you disagree on that too ? I donot know about you, but it makes full sense to me. Israelis are being killed because Israel is occupying , Let israel withdraw and israeli blood will be saved. It isNOT the palestineans who undermined the right of life of israelis, but it is israel which occupied and exposed the life of its citizens to the the unconcluded war of 1967 ! More generally, the violence in the occupied terretories is part of the intifada, and i had previously posted a "long" article about this issue, whom i finished by an open question: Suppose the Intifada stops, What is the motive for Israel to withdraw ? donot tell hope for peace and this bullshit. Everybody in the world looks and hopes for peace, so why isnot there any. hope of peace is necessary but not sufficient motive. As for the Arabian countries, their problems are an Arabian concern. the Arabian people can deal with it themselves, if the west doesnot intervene. As for Serbs, I donot think that those FUCKED UP RAPISTS (excuse my language but it really hurts as much if I was in Bosnia itself) areNOT humans. Those surely came from outer space or something. No human can allow himself to see such attrocities than to participate in. Ok. My definition is the same as yours, but one has to look into the world politics. In politics, a "solution" doesNOT imply "JUST solution". It seems that it was problem in the definition of "solution". I think a solution must be just, because otherwise it would never be lasting. However, when politicians say a solution, they donot mean a just solution but just a solution.
Wasn't the original intent of the reverse lights for the driver, so he could see where he was backing up??? Although reverse lights on the sides are useful for telling whether cars are backing up out perpendicular to the path of the car, I don't think warnings were their original intents, since they are colored white.
Squeaky BMW riders.
Following a series of miscarriages, my wife was given a transfusion of my white cells. (The theory as I understand it is that there is some kind of immune blocking that prevents the body from attacking the pregnancy as it normally would a "foreign" body. Where this blocking is deficient, the body evicts the "intruder", resulting in a miscarriage. The white cells apparently enhance the blocking capability.) Following the transfusion, she successfully carried the next pregnancy to term, and Jake is now an active 9 month-old who cannot wait to walk. We're now thinking about having another child, but no one (including the OBGYN who supervised the first transfusion) really seems to know whether or not the transfusion process needs to be repeated for successive pregnancies. Is there anyone in net-land who has experience with this? Thanks...Gene (and Jane and Jake)
Hello everyone. I'm new to motorcycles so no flames please. I don't have my bike yet so I need a few pieces of information: 1) I only have about $1200-1300 to work with, so that would have to cover everything (bike, helmet, anything else that I'm too ignorant to know I need to buy) 2) What is buying a bike going to do to my insurance? I turn 18 in about a month so my parents have been taking care of my insurance up till now, and I need a comprehensive list of costs that buying a motorcycle is going to insure (I live in Washington DC if that makes a difference) 3) Any recommendations on what I should buy/where I should look for it? 4) In DC, as I imagine it is in every other state (OK, OK, we're not a state - we're not bitter ;)), you take the written test first and then get a learners permit. However, I'm wondering how one goes about learning to ride the bike proficiently enough so as to a) get a liscence and b) not kill oneself. I don't know anyone with a bike who could teach me, and the most advice I've heard is either "do you live near a field" or "do you have a friend with a pickup truck", the answers to both of which are NO. Do I just ride around my neighborhood and hope for the best? I kind of live in a residential area but it's not suburbs. It's still the big city and I'm about a mile from downtown so that doesn't seem too viable. Any stories on how you all learned? Thanks for any replies in advance. -Greg Humphreys :wq ^^^ Meant to do that. (Damn autoindent)
Archive-name: space/astronaut Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:02 $ HOW TO BECOME AN ASTRONAUT First the short form, authored by Henry Spencer, then an official NASA announcement. Q. How do I become an astronaut? A. We will assume you mean a NASA astronaut, since it's probably impossible for a non-Russian to get into the cosmonaut corps (paying passengers are not professional cosmonauts), and the other nations have so few astronauts (and fly even fewer) that you're better off hoping to win a lottery. Becoming a shuttle pilot requires lots of fast-jet experience, which means a military flying career; forget that unless you want to do it anyway. So you want to become a shuttle "mission specialist". If you aren't a US citizen, become one; that is a must. After that, the crucial thing to remember is that the demand for such jobs vastly exceeds the supply. NASA's problem is not finding qualified people, but thinning the lineup down to manageable length. It is not enough to be qualified; you must avoid being *dis*qualified for any reason, many of them in principle quite irrelevant to the job. Get a Ph.D. Specialize in something that involves getting your hands dirty with equipment, not just paper and pencil. Forget computer programming entirely; it will be done from the ground for the fore- seeable future. Degree(s) in one field plus work experience in another seems to be a frequent winner. Be in good physical condition, with good eyesight. (DO NOT get a radial keratomy or similar hack to improve your vision; nobody knows what sudden pressure changes would do to RKed eyes, and long-term effects are poorly understood. For that matter, avoid any other significant medical unknowns.) If you can pass a jet-pilot physical, you should be okay; if you can't, your chances are poor. Practise public speaking, and be conservative and conformist in appearance and actions; you've got a tough selling job ahead, trying to convince a cautious, conservative selection committee that you are better than hundreds of other applicants. (And, also, that you will be a credit to NASA after you are hired: public relations is a significant part of the job, and NASA's image is very prim and proper.) The image you want is squeaky-clean workaholic yuppie. Remember also that you will need a security clearance at some point, and Security considers everybody guilty until proven innocent. Keep your nose clean. Get a pilot's license and make flying your number one hobby; experienced pilots are known to be favored even for non-pilot jobs. Work for NASA; of 45 astronauts selected between 1984 and 1988, 43 were military or NASA employees, and the remaining two were a NASA consultant and Mae Jemison (the first black female astronaut). If you apply from outside NASA and miss, but they offer you a job at NASA, ***TAKE IT***; sometimes in the past this has meant "you do look interesting but we want to know you a bit better first". Think space: they want highly motivated people, so lose no chance to demonstrate motivation. Keep trying. Many astronauts didn't make it the first time. NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center Houston, Texas Announcement for Mission Specialist and Pilot Astronaut Candidates ================================================================== Astronaut Candidate Program --------------------------- The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has a need for Pilot Astronaut Candidates and Mission Specialist Astronaut Candidates to support the Space Shuttle Program. NASA is now accepting on a continuous basis and plans to select astronaut candidates as needed. Persons from both the civilian sector and the military services will be considered. All positions are located at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, and will involved a 1-year training and evaluation program. Space Shuttle Program Description --------------------------------- The numerous successful flights of the Space Shuttle have demonstrated that operation and experimental investigations in space are becoming routine. The Space Shuttle Orbiter is launched into, and maneuvers in the Earth orbit performing missions lastling up to 30 days. It then returns to earth and is ready for another flight with payloads and flight crew. The Orbiter performs a variety of orbital missions including deployment and retrieval of satellites, service of existing satellites, operation of specialized laboratories (astronomy, earth sciences, materials processing, manufacturing), and other operations. These missions will eventually include the development and servicing of a permanent space station. The Orbiter also provides a staging capability for using higher orbits than can be achieved by the Orbiter itself. Users of the Space Shuttle's capabilities are both domestic and foreign and include government agencies and private industries. The crew normally consists of five people - the commander, the pilot, and three mission specialists. On occasion additional crew members are assigned. The commander, pilot, and mission specialists are NASA astronauts. Pilot Astronaut Pilot astronauts server as both Space Shuttle commanders and pilots. During flight the commander has onboard responsibility for the vehicle, crew, mission success and safety in flight. The pilot assists the commander in controlling and operating the vehicle. In addition, the pilot may assist in the deployment and retrieval of satellites utilizing the remote manipulator system, in extra-vehicular activities, and other payload operations. Mission Specialist Astronaut Mission specialist astronauts, working with the commander and pilot, have overall responsibility for the coordination of Shuttle operations in the areas of crew activity planning, consumables usage, and experiment and payload operations. Mission specialists are required to have a detailed knowledge of Shuttle systems, as well as detailed knowledge of the operational characteristics, mission requirements and objectives, and supporting systems and equipment for each of the experiments to be conducted on their assigned missions. Mission specialists will perform extra-vehicular activities, payload handling using the remote manipulator system, and perform or assist in specific experimental operations. Astronaut Candidate Program =========================== Basic Qualification Requirements -------------------------------- Applicants MUST meet the following minimum requirements prior to submitting an application. Mission Specialist Astronaut Candidate: 1. Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in engineering, biological science, physical science or mathematics. Degree must be followed by at least three years of related progressively responsible, professional experience. An advanced degree is desirable and may be substituted for part or all of the experience requirement (master's degree = 1 year, doctoral degree = 3 years). Quality of academic preparation is important. 2. Ability to pass a NASA class II space physical, which is similar to a civilian or military class II flight physical and includes the following specific standards: Distant visual acuity: 20/150 or better uncorrected, correctable to 20/20, each eye. Blood pressure: 140/90 measured in sitting position. 3. Height between 58.5 and 76 inches. Pilot Astronaut Candidate: 1. Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in engineering, biological science, physical science or mathematics. Degree must be followed by at least three years of related progressively responsible, professional experience. An advanced degree is desirable. Quality of academic preparation is important. 2. At least 1000 hours pilot-in-command time in jet aircraft. Flight test experience highly desirable. 3. Ability to pass a NASA Class I space physical which is similar to a military or civilian Class I flight physical and includes the following specific standards: Distant visual acuity: 20/50 or better uncorrected correctable to 20/20, each eye. Blood pressure: 140/90 measured in sitting position. 4. Height between 64 and 76 inches. Citizenship Requirements Applications for the Astronaut Candidate Program must be citizens of the United States. Note on Academic Requirements Applicants for the Astronaut Candidate Program must meet the basic education requirements for NASA engineering and scientific positions -- specifically: successful completion of standard professional curriculum in an accredited college or university leading to at least a bachelor's degree with major study in an appropriate field of engineering, biological science, physical science, or mathematics. The following degree fields, while related to engineering and the sciences, are not considered qualifying: - Degrees in technology (Engineering Technology, Aviation Technology, Medical Technology, etc.) - Degrees in Psychology (except for Clinical Psychology, Physiological Psychology, or Experimental Psychology which are qualifying). - Degrees in Nursing. - Degrees in social sciences (Geography, Anthropology, Archaeology, etc.) - Degrees in Aviation, Aviation Management or similar fields. Application Procedures ---------------------- Civilian The application package may be obtained by writing to: NASA Johnson Space Center Astronaut Selection Office ATTN: AHX Houston, TX 77058 Civilian applications will be accepted on a continuous basis. When NASA decides to select additional astronaut candidates, consideration will be given only to those applications on hand on the date of decision is made. Applications received after that date will be retained and considered for the next selection. Applicants will be notified annually of the opportunity to update their applications and to indicate continued interest in being considered for the program. Those applicants who do not update their applications annually will be dropped from consideration, and their applications will not be retained. After the preliminary screening of applications, additional information may be requested for some applicants, and person listed on the application as supervisors and references may be contacted. Active Duty Military Active duty military personnel must submit applications to their respective military service and not directly to NASA. Application procedures will be disseminated by each service. Selection --------- Personal interviews and thorough medical evaluations will be required for both civilian and military applicants under final consideration. Once final selections have been made, all applicants who were considered will be notified of the outcome of the process. Selection rosters established through this process may be used for the selection of additional candidates during a one year period following their establishment. General Program Requirements Selected applicants will be designated Astronaut Candidates and will be assigned to the Astronaut Office at the Johnson Space Center, Houston, Texas. The astronaut candidates will undergo a 1 year training and evaluation period during which time they will be assigned technical or scientific responsibilities allowing them to contribute substantially to ongoing programs. They will also participate in the basic astronaut training program which is designed to develop the knowledge and skills required for formal mission training upon selection for a flight. Pilot astronaut candidates will maintain proficiency in NASA aircraft during their candidate period. Applicants should be aware that selection as an astronaut candidate does not insure selection as an astronaut. Final selection as an astronaut will depend on satisfactory completion of the 1 year training and evaluation period. Civilian candidates who successfully complete the training and evaluation and are selected as astronauts will become permanent Federal employees and will be expected to remain with NASA for a period of at least five years. Civilian candidates who are not selected as astronauts may be placed in other positions within NASA depending upon Agency requirements and manpower constraints at that time. Successful military candidates will be detailed to NASA for a specified tour of duty. NASA has an affirmative action program goal of having qualified minorities and women among those qualified as astronaut candidates. Therefore, qualified minorities and women are encouraged to apply. Pay and Benefits ---------------- Civilians Salaries for civilian astronaut candidates are based on the Federal Governments General Schedule pay scales for grades GS-11 through GS-14, and are set in accordance with each individuals academic achievements and experience. Other benefits include vacation and sick leave, a retirement plan, and participation in group health and life insurance plans. Military Selected military personnel will be detailed to the Johnson Space Center but will remain in an active duty status for pay, benefits, leave, and other similar military matters.
I was part of a study a few years ago at the University of Arizona to see whether cross dominant individuals (those with a particular handedness but who had dominance in the opposite eye) were better hitters than those with same side dominance of hand and eye. I was picked from my softball class because I was cross dominant (right hand, left eye) which put me in a small minority (and the grad student was trying to get an equal number of cross dominant and same side dominant people). To control the study, she used a pitching machine - fast pitch. Since I was used to slow pitch, I didn't come close (actually I think I foul tipped a few) to hitting the ball. If there were a lot of people like me in her study (i.e., those who can't hit fast pitch, or are not used to hitting off a machine), I would seriously question the results of that study!! I think there have been some studies of major league players (across a fairly large cross section of players) to test whether eye dominance being the same or opposite side was "better" - but I don't know the results. (The woman who ran the study I was in said that there was a higher incidence of crossdominance in major leaguers than across the general population - but I'm not sure whether I'd believe her.)
So after I've flashed my lights at the chap in front and he doesn't 'pass it on' (and few if any do), what next? On major highways, 3 or more lanes in each direction, keeping to the extreme right blocks folks who are entering. Also, as someone posted in this thread, here in the D.C. area we have a few left lane exits (sounds like 66). If you wait until the last minute to get in the left lane you won't, cause these yoyos won't make room. We have a particularly bad strech here in Merryland just over the Cabin John bridge. There are two very long entry ramps which all the hurry-up yahoos dive into cause they want to get ahead. When we get to the point where these ramps merge, all hell breaks lose. The result is that traffic which was moving at 55 on the VA side of the bridge, stalls on t'other side. If these dingbats had stayed in lane, allowed the folks coming up the two ramps to merge, we would still be doing 55. Instead we do start- stop for 4 miles. Dave Barry's idea of a laser equipped car would be real useful here. Bob
[ ... ] To which I say: Hear, hear. Motion seconded. Hovig
Some birds require constant management for survival. Pointing a sensor at the sun, even when powered down, may burn it out. Pointing a parabolic antenna at Sol, from venus orbit may trash the foci elements. Even if you let teh bird drift, it may get hosed by some cosmic phenomena.
I see no difference between Janet Reno's claim of responsibility for the Waco Massacre and the IRA's claims of responsibility for various acts of terrorism against British citizens. -- Dave Feustel N9MYI <feustel@netcom.com>
Hello netters:) Does anyone out there know any FTP sites for projects, plans, etc of an electrical nature? -Jason
Does anyone know the performance ratings for a 1992 or 1993 5.0 L HO Mustang LX like the 0-60 time 1/4 mile and top end ??? Also can you tell me which magazine where these #'s come from so I can look them up if possable ???? If you could the year and month and eveen page # if you have it.
Davidian, who are fascists? Armenians in Azerbaijan are killing Azeri people, invading Azeri soil and they are not fascists, because they lack food ha? Strange explanation. There is no excuse for this situation. Herkesi fasist diye damgala sonra, kendileri fasistligin alasini yapinca, "ac kaldilar da, yiyecekleri yok amcasi, bu seferlik affedin" de. Yurrruuu, yuru de plaka numarani alalim......
actions the them This is, of course, your opinion. I differ greatly. There can be NO doubt the FBI at least shares in the blame. -- jmd@handheld.com
[reply to todamhyp@charles.unlv.edu (Brian M. Huey)] Kirilian. There turned out to be a very simple, conventional explanation for the phenomenon. I can't recall the details, but I believe it had to do with the object between the plates altering the field because of purely mechanical properties like capacitance. The "aura" was caused by direct exposure of the film from variations in field strength.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
For those that are interested I got my fully optioned (Air, ABS, sunroof) '92 SE-R in September 1991 for $13,555 in Sacramento, CA. It was one of the 1st '92s sold, few of the dealers had any, no local dealer had an ABS equipped SE-R. I went straight to the fleet manager at the dealership I liked, told him what I wanted, made him aware that I knew what his price should be. He called me back with exactly what I wanted from a dealer 125mi away, I took delivery the next day.
There is no such thing as "completely secure," especially when dealing with High Technology. It's all a question of cost: what cost are you willing to bear to protect your information vs. what rewards the "bad guys" are going to get if they break it. The rewards of breaking such a single ID system would be high indeed.
Hello, I am looking for carbon-doped rubber. Or an highly elastic material that changes its resistivity, or some other electrical property when streched. If you could email me any info you may have on material names or companies that make the stuff it would be highly appreaciated.
{drinking & riding} 0.20 is DWI in New York? Here the limit is 0.08 !
I learned when riding bareback as a kid to "palm-reign", by just pushing on the right side of the horse's neck with your right palm to turn left - a lot like countersteering. So that came pretty easy to me in the transition to motorcycles. It took a while however to break my habit of kicking the rear fender with my heels to go faster.
My 1988 Toyota 4Runner has a rolldown rear window with a keylock switch. It sticky on me. Yesterday it was tough to get the key to work and it also happened to stick on in the up direction so the stalled motor was powered all night killing the battery. I'd like to try to lubricate the lock switch. What should I lubricate the lock with? email please, thanx, Ken. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- "Don't drink American corporate swill. Support you local micro-brewery." -me
This is also commonly seen in new teachers. The first few years, they're sick a lot, but gradually seem to build up immunities to almost everything common. Come to think of it, I was about my healthiest when I was working in a pathogens lab, exposed to who-knows-what all the time. Pre-OSHA, of course.
Careful now folks... Also consider the 90VAC+ @20Hz that is forced on ring and tip when the phone's supposed to ring! Even with a simple zener and LED setup, you might end up with some carbon real quick. Whatever scheme you use, make sure you've got at least 200V-rated components on the frontend. Also remember that, if I'm not mistaken, the phone line is a 600ohm equivalent circuit. Any current you draw from the 48V or so gets dropped across that 600ohms. That's fine until you're down to roughly 12V, when Ma Bell considers it to be off-hook. But dropping it that far down is probably a big no-no. The easiest implementation to accomplish the above?? tip ------->|-----\/\/\/\-----+----------+ rectifier resistor | | diode | \ V / zener /---/ \ resistor | / | | | V LED | --- | | ring --------------------------+----------+ This is only a suggestion...go ahead and blow holes in it, but you get the idea. Choose a high-efficiency LED so you don't need much current to get it to light up. Choose values for the other components as required.
Please satisfy my curiosity. I'm interested in finding out who is using the e-mail system. Please do not flood me with mail after April 21st. Thanks! Maria Alice Ruth mao111@psuvm.bitnet or @psuvm.psu.edu 1. Are you male or female? 2. How long have you been using the e-mail system? 3. How do you have access (at work, at school, etc)? 4. Who taught you how to use the system? Is that person male or female? 5. Have you helped anyone to learn the system? Was that person(s) male or female? 6. Which net did you find my questions on? 7. Which other nets are you interested in?
As a new BMW owner I was thinking about signing up for the MOA, but right now it is beginning to look suspiciously like throwing money down a rathole. When you guys sort this out let me know.
Here is a letter I sent to David Skaggs, (Dem, CO). Before anybody says something, yes the letter is a bit "sharp" in tone. I have been writting reasonable and polite letters to him for years, and all I get in return in the HCI party line. Since he already is NRA F rated, I don't think that upsetting him will harm the cause. Sorry if you disagree, but recent events in Texas REALLY have me pissed. ------------------- April 20, 1993 Representative Skaggs, Recently I wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, (BATF), in Texas. In your response you stated that "Events in Texas underscore the need for stricter gun control legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the Branch Davidians. My question to you is, "what grounds would you use to deny them access to firearms?" Best I can tell this statement underscores your apparent total ignorance of the subject, and highlights your personal bias against firearms. I say this because there are only two possible paths of "gun control" which you could have been referencing. Either: 1) You were talking about their access to semi-automatics firearms. In this case I should point out that semi-automatic firearms are legal in most areas of this Country, including Texas and Colorado. In addition the members of the "cult" have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability to purchase these weapons. So under what grounds would you deny them these guns? Their religion? The fact they they live in a large group alone by themselves? Because you consider them to be a cult? Maybe I consider your Church to be a cult! This line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of "thought crimes." You and Pat Robertson should really get along. 2) You were referring to the ALLEGED FULLY automatic weapons possessed by the "cult." Under current US law, FULLY automatic weapons have been covered by some of the strictest gun control laws in this Nation. So if David Koresh illegally possessed them, he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest laws we have. How will more laws help? By the way, it has been reported that David Koresh possessed a Federal Firearms License which would have permitted him to possess FULLY automatic weapons. If true, the 85 people who perished Monday in the fire, died so that the Federal government could collect a couple hundred dollars in taxes on guns David Koresh didn't declare. I have heard claims that they were "stockpiling weapons." Yet considering the number of people in the complex, even 200+ weapons would not have been out of line with gun ownership statistics for all of Texas. What's next? A siege of Dallas/Ft Worth for alleged "stockpiling?" Face it David Skaggs, You have voted for virtually EVERY gun control law that has passed through Congress, yet you claim that you are only for "reasonable" restrictions. Bull****! Handgun Control Inc. is struggling to maintain 250,000 PAID members, while the NRA has just exceeded 3,000,000 members. They are still growing at a rate of 2,000 new members per day. Driving around YOUR district I see NRA stickers every day. In eight plus years of living here I have only seen ONE HCI bumper sticker. When you vote for your "reasonable" gun control laws, are you really representing your district, or are you representing Sarah Bradys'? Thank You, William J. Vojak April 20, 1993 Representative Skaggs, Recently I wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, (BATF), in Texas. In your response you stated that "Events in Texas underscore the need for stricter gun control legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the Branch Davidians. My question to you is, "what grounds would you use to deny them access to firearms?" Best I can tell this statement underscores your apparent total ignorance of the subject, and highlights your personal bias against firearms. I say this because there are only two possible paths of "gun control" which you could have been referencing. Either: 1) You were talking about their access to semi-automatics firearms. In this case I should point out that semi-automatic firearms are legal in most areas of this Country, including Texas and Colorado. In addition the members of the "cult" have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability to purchase these weapons. So under what grounds would you deny them these guns? Their religion? The fact they they live in a large group alone by themselves? Because you consider them to be a cult? Maybe I consider your Church to be a cult! This line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of "thought crimes." You and Pat Robertson should really get along. 2) You were referring to the ALLEGED FULLY automatic weapons possessed by the "cult." Under current US law, FULLY automatic weapons have been covered by some of the strictest gun control laws in this Nation. So if David Koresh illegally possessed them, he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest laws we have. How will more laws help? By the way, it has been reported that David Koresh possessed a Federal Firearms License which would have permitted him to possess FULLY automatic weapons. If true, the 85 people who perished Monday in the fire, died so that the Federal government could collect a couple hundred dollars in taxes on guns David Koresh didn't declare. I have heard claims that they were "stockpiling weapons." Yet considering the number of people in the complex, even 200+ weapons would not have been out of line with gun ownership statistics for all of Texas. What's next? A siege of Dallas/Ft Worth for alleged "stockpiling?" Face it David Skaggs, You have voted for virtually EVERY gun control law that has passed through Congress, yet you claim that you are only for "reasonable" restrictions. Bull****! Handgun Control Inc. is struggling to maintain 250,000 PAID members, while the NRA has just exceeded 3,000,000 members. They are still growing at a rate of 2,000 new members per day. Driving around YOUR district I see NRA stickers every day. In eight plus years of living here I have only seen ONE HCI bumper sticker. When you vote for your "reasonable" gun control laws, are you really representing your district, or are you representing Sarah Bradys'? Thank You, William J. Vojak --------------------------- Bill Vojak vojak@icebucket.stortek.com NRA, ILA, Colorado Firearms Coalition ------------------------------------------------------------ The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER NOT!) The CBS Nightly Propaganda With Dan Rather. (RATHER BIASED!)
Not exactly the same, but reminiscent of the assassination of Count Bernadotte, who was _the_ UN negotiator during the 1948 Israeli war of independence. He was killed by the Israelis. Seems he was being too successful in negotiating a cease-fire, which would have worked territorially against the nascent Israel, compared to continued war.
Well,I tried not to get involved in this never ending talk,but,man,I REALLY got hot about this bullshit. Making stupid and idiot jokes about soliders will not bring anything (not mentioning peace or agreement). I also know several tens of jokes about arabs (palestinians) but I DO NOT post them to Usenet (Anyway,not to THIS newsgroup), since I don't think I will achieve any target but making other parts furious,and this is NOT my target. If this is your target...well...that tells a lot about you. Did you really think he is talking about something realistic? Yeah,well,sometimes,when cowards put their children and wives in the front line, so their enemy cannot do anything,well,maybe in those cases,you have no better thing to do (to save your life) than shooting. And if parents want their children alive,I think it would be better that before they get out to throw stones/molotov botlles,or when they come to kill soliders,to keep their children in the houses. ^^^^^^^^^^^^----\/ Look in the dictionary at the word "terrorism"! It esp for political purposes. It sounds more like your guys... Yeah? Well,I guess you were in there,and you know it all... ^^^^^^^^^^---\/ Where from do you know that it was "on purpose"? Personally,I didn't hear about this case,although I don't deny it.But how can ANYBODY,besides the person itself,can say it was "on purpose"? Yeah,sure.The truck driver looked in the car with his Zionist Equipment of Detecting Palestinian Children,and then he thought to himself:Hey there is a 5 year and 2 weeks girls in the car.Why won't I make an accident and kill the "enemy"? Maximum I will die too in the crash...But what do I care?... Well,It was about 3 years ago ,in the Intifada (The fact that you can't remember the time prooves how much do you care about it). I DO NOT think that what the soliders did was correct. But I will not agree that they "were breaking their arms".I saw that film,and,unlike in the USA,it was broadcasted entirely not long ago (in a talk show) and at the end the "arm-broken" guys got up and walked and used their arms very good. They guy who did it was interviewed and he said he did it because the terrorist or whatever he was refused to take his orders,and spitted in his face. What ammount of truth exist in this statement I cannot tell you,because I wasn't there. But the guy who did it was in prison,if it makes you any good. No,it didn't. The Israeli army is still the most important army in the midlle east.It is still the only human army(as much as an ARMY can be human).To any American who will claim the opposite,I can only remember the CNN broadcasting of the American Solider who beat a Somalian boy. It was very cruel to see.But I won't say because of this that the American army is cruel. Some kind of proof! "Obvious"? Where from? If you say it is behind the scenes, how do you know about it? I just wanted to show how much garbadge one can say,without knowing ANYTHING about what he says,and living a life far away from the place he talks about.
This would be one of the results of "U.S. backed PEACE!!!!!!" process. Hamid
I was under the (possibly incorrect) assumption that most of the MSG on our foods was made from processing sugar beets. Is this not true? Are there other sources of MSG? I am one of those folx who react, sometimes strongly, to MSG. However, I also react strongly to sodium chloride (table salt) in excess. Each causes different symptoms except for the common one of rapid heartbeat and an uncomfortable feeling of pressure in my chest, upper left quadrant.
this week's autoweek talks about how wagons are getting back in vogue. i wouldn't mind an audi s4 wagon (great stealth value) but you'll never catch me dead in a minivan!
Not exactly dumb, but who remebers the tachometer on the 69 or 70 Firebird bulging out of the _hood_ right in front of the driver. Neat place but I love to know what the elemnts did to its internals after a few years. Also, does the speedomete pointer on many US cars have to be 3 feet long?.
DEC does this only for their PX and PXG servers, known as 3D accelerators. This boards have local offscreen memory which is limited and slow to handle, thus they set this limit.
I am looking for a package that implements standard image processing functions (reading/writing from standard formats), clipping, zoom, etc. implemented under X. Both public domain and private packages are of interest. The particular application area I have in mind is medical imaging, but a package meant for a more general context would be acceptable. Please reply to me; I will summarize on the net if there is general interest.
So, like, what do you do during those six months to be "active?" My town has a similar requirement, and it's rather stupid. Before you can buy a handgun, you have to be an active member of a gun club. Well, how active can you be without a gun, chief? Most gun owners feel a check of criminal records for crimes and mental disorders would be a very good thing -- IF it couldn't be abused by the government. But every time this is proposed, there is always some trapdoor by which the government can deny your purchase EVEN IF you are perfectly qualified to own a gun. And we oppose this. Since the fatal accident rate for licensed automobile drivers in the US is around 50 times the fatal accident rate of largely unlicensed gun owners, I'd think twice before using this analogy. Besides, the problem is criminal use of guns, not accidents. (There are about 500,000 criminal uses of guns in the US every year -- but only 1,400 accidents.) I don't think it's necessary to spend a lot of energy making sure a criminal CAN shoot a gun before he gets one. Just like the check, most gun owners feel positively about requiring safety courses -- IF they couldn't be abused by the government. But they already have! One state doesn't hold the courses, another doesn't fund them, a third holds them only once a year with limited attendence to those with political connections. Is this fair? And how many of them acquire these guns from legal retail outlets? How many are borrowed, stolen, smuggled, bought on the black market? Some states allow ONLY open carry. Some allow ONLY concealed carry. Some allow both. Some allow both, but require licenses for concealed carry. All you can say is if one of these modes has a clear advantage over another in terms of reducing crime or any other public good, then state legislators SOMEPLACE are doing exactly the wrong thing. Which means that they really don't have any objective reasons for these laws other than their preferences -- a bad way to govern. ("Hot-livered." I LOVE that expression. Here, we say "hot-headed.") Typically, the only criminals who can affect the rights of ALL the other people are criminals in government offices. The rest of our criminals affect the rights of only one or a few people at a time, and they do this during the commission of a crime. POSSESSION of a gun by someone hurts NO ONE else. It is when they do something violent with that gun that the crime occurs. Of course, it is a crime for a felon or ex-felon to possess a gun, but we don't feel it is right to treat common citizens who have lived good lives as if they were just "pre-felons" waiting to commit crimes. I don't understand this sentence. Life isn't fair. I shouldn't need a fire extinguisher either, or flood and theft insurance, or to lock the doors of my house and car. But pining for a better world won't do anything to address what I have to do to live in this one. None of ours, I'm sure. Frankly, I'm not sure I know what good a driver's license does anyone, either. The people who drive safely never use it, and the people who drive drunk, drive without it! However, a car is a good tool, but not one that protects my right to life. I rank the right to life somewhere north of the right to travel freely. The question is not whether or not you want to own guns personally. It's whether or not you think that ALL people should be forced to do as you do. I don't have any problem with someone who says they would never own a gun. I do have a problem with someone who says I should be prevented from owning one, too. --
Well, you can accomplish both goals, actually, if you have a definite physical type in mind when you go to these (cough) church meetings.. If your tastes tend to smaller, more petite (cough) churchgoers, it is more likely that they will have a smaller head, and you can safely get a medium or small helmet. This works for me, and I traded my spare large helmet with my best friend, who, at 6'9", tends to look more for women that are over 6'0", and can't usually fit into the medium size helmet he previously had... Of course, if you aren't picky what size (*cough*) churchgoers you give helpful motorcycle rides to, then Ed's advice will hopefully cover any eventuality as far as legality is concerned, and a spare handtowel in the tankbag makes acceptable padding so the passenger can see out of the viewport (rather than the padding above the viewport) in the cases of extreme mismatch. Randy Davis Email: randy@megatek.com ZX-11 #00072 Pilot {uunet!ucsd}!megatek!randy DoD #0013
I would be scared of trying to fit the one piece. When I got my two piece, I got the jacket in 42 and the pants in 40 (just due to my manly-man of an athletic build, kind of thing) No laughing, please. Seriously, I'm not trim and the 42 pants would have been way too big. Also, I don't think the 1 piece does provide better protection. If I'm wrong, I'll be swiftly if ever so gently correct by the net.pansies.of.knowledge (as they like to call themselves). Regards Jack Waters II DoD#1919
I think the original post was searching for existing implementations of f.i. Gouroud-shading of triangles. This is fairly complex to do with plain X. Simpler shading models are implemented already, f.i. in x3d (ask archie where to get the latest version). For Gouroud, a fast implementation will be possible utilizing some extension only, either MIT-SHM to do the shade in an image and fast update the window with it, or PEX/OpenGL which should be able to shade themselves. The portable 'vanilla X' way would be to shade in a normal XImage and use XPutImage(), what would be good enough to do static things as f.i. fractal landscapes or such stuff. To speak about POVRay, the X previewer that comes with the original source package is not that good, especially in speed, protocol-friendlyness and ICCCM compliance. Have a look on x256q, my own preview code. It is on 141.76.1.11:pub/gfx/ray/misc/x256q/ The README states the points where it is better than xwindow.c from POVRay 1.0
It would be nice if, as you rightly point out the inherent value of freedom of speech, discussion would also deal with the all-to- frequent ritualized abuses and distortions of that freedom that do occur. There are situations where a few extremely vocal, and usually radical, people **do** drive people away, effectively stifle all other ("opposing") views and generally "take over". *Clearly*, the purpose behind such actions is *to deprive* others of *their* freedom of speech through overt and covert coercion and domination of the "media form" in question. While "freedom" of speech is to be valued, this is not. How would you suggest that this sort of reoccuring problem be alleviated? More particularly, how can this be controlled within the structure of these newsgroups?
Yes, I know it's nowhere near Christmas time, but I'm gonna loose Net access in a few days (maybe a week or 2 if I'm lucky), and wanted to post this for interested people to save 'till Xmas. :-( Note: Bell Labs is a good place IF you have a PhD and a good boss, I have neither. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: Xmas light set with 2 levels of brightness Another version of a variable brightness Xmas light set: This set starts with a 2 blinker 35 bulb string. DIAGRAM: orginal 2 way set 120v---+--b-*-*-*-*-*-*-*--! !---b-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-! ! 120rtn_____________________! modified set for 2 level brightness: string 1 120v---------*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*--! \_10K_______*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-! 5w ! string 2 ! b ________________! 120v rtn__!___! ^ Note: no mods to wiring to the right of this point. Only one blinker is used. Note that the blinker would not have as much current thru it as the string 1 bulbs, because of the second string of bulbs in parallel with it. That's why the use of the 10K 5W resistor here to add extra current thru the blinker to make up for the current shunted thru the second string while the blinker is glowing and the second string is not glowing. When the blinker goes open, this resistor has only a slight effect on the brightness of the strings, s1 slightly dimmer, s2 slightly brighter. Or use a 3W 120v bulb in place of the 10K resistor if you can get one. Caution, do not replace with a standard C9 bulb, as these draw too much current and burn out the blinker. C9 = approx 7W. What you'll see when it's working: powerup, string 1 will light at full brightness, and b will be lit, bypassing most of the current from the second string, making them not light. b will open, placing both strings in series, making the string that was out to glow at a low brightness, and the other string that was on before to glow at reduced brightness.
;Revving the throttle requires either [dis]engaging the clutch, ;or accelerating. Not if it's a Harley.
WASHINGTON (UPI) -- Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Tuesday there are better ideas to stop the human slaughter in the Balkans than ordering American fighters to bomb the Serbs, but a frustrated senator told him to do just that. ``We've not done a damn thing,'' Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., told Christopher at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. ``Preventive diplomacy is not in your capability right now in Bosnia- Herzegovina. Biden chastised the administration and its Republican predecessor for what he characterized as a limp response to the Serbian policy of ``ethnic cleansing'' of Muslims, including rape and shelling of civilians. ``The time has come for us and the world to stop bemoaning the fact that all the options are bad ones,'' Biden said. ``They are all bad ones and we ought to pick a couple.'' Biden also endorsed lifting an international arms embargo against the former Yugoslavia so the Muslim-dominated Bosnian government might have a chance to at least defend itself against the Serbs. Christopher said this could give an opening role in the conflict to **************************************************** the radical Islamic government of Iran. *************************************** O, I C! Biden endorsed bombing Serbian heavy weapons around the besieged eastern town of Srebrenica. ``There's not a military person...who will not tell you that they could today, if you gave them the order, take out the heavy weaponry around Srebrenica,'' Biden said. ``If you did nothing else, nothing else but that, you would have saved hundreds of women and children who are being absolutely massacred right now.'' Military action ``is the only thing that's going to change the equation,'' Biden said. .................................... Despite the frustrations and pressure, Christopher had no enthusiasm for American combat aircraft to strike Serb positions in Bosnia- Herzegovina. .................... Humanitarian as in feeding them and let them get raped and killed. *******(then) *******************(Now) Why don't they get the hell out of there, they ared doing nothing to protect the victims anyway.. Maybe becasue they have a different agenda. *************************
The fact that Israel is already discussing with some Palestinians what the composition of the armed Palestinian Police Force in the territories will be during the transition phase indicates some real solid concessions and liberal thinking on the part of the Israeli side.
There has been quite a bit of discussion about house wiring and grounding practices here. A few points need to be clarified: The Equipment GROUNDING conductor, Green, green with a yellow stripe, bare, or the metal sheath or pipe of SOME wiring methods, is used as a safety ground, to carry fault currents back to the circuit breaker panel, and to limit the voltage on the metal case of utilization equipment or other metal objects. It should never (except for a few exceptions to be discussed later) carry the normal operating current of a connected load. Some equipment has filters in the power supply which may cause some slight current flow through the grounding conductor. Much communications or audio equipment is sensitive to noise or slight voltages on the grounding conductor, and may require special wiring of the grounding conductors to provide reliable operation ("orange" outlets are often used for this, with insulated grounding conductors wired back to the panel box, and in many cases back to the service. Anyone installing such a system should read both the section on grounding in the National Electric Code and publications on installing quiet isolated ground systems. The code requires the insulated grounding conductors (green wires) to run with the current carrying conductors back to the panel box, and, if required, back all the way to the service entrance , where it is bonded to the service ground (water pipe or rod) Many of these systems are installed illegally or unsafely, where they do not provide a safe ground or a quiet ground or either. The GROUNDED conductor of a circuit, often called the NEUTRAL, which is referred to in the code as the "identified" conductor and is supposed to be white or natural grey. This conductor is supposed to be connected to ground in most electrical systems at a single point, generally at the service entrance panel. This connection is through the Main Bonding Jumper. (In many household service panels, the main bonding jumper is actually a bonding screw which attaches the neutral busbar to the case of the panel) The Grounded conductor (neutral) is generally a current carrying conductor. In the case of a 120 volt circuit it is one of the two conductors completing the circuit from the panel to the load device. Since the grounded conductor (neutral) is only connected to the grounding conductor (bare or green) at the service entrance, if the load is any distance from the service and draws any significant current, there will be a small but measurable voltage between the grounded and grounding conductors at the load, under normal operating conditions. If you should (incorrectly) connect the grounded (neutral) conductor to the grounding conductor at the load, some of the neutral current will flow instead through the grounding conductor. Since there will now be current flowing through the grounding conductor, it will also no longer be quite at ground potential at the load end. If the load equipment has a metal case, which is connected to the grounding conductor through the "U" ground plug, the metal case is now also no longer quite at ground potential. The difference (under normal, non short-circuit conditions) may be only a few tenths of a volt, but it could also be a volt or two. This normally does not present a shock hazard. HOWEVER, if you let the metal case of the grounded equipment come into contact with an independently grounded object such as a water or gas pipe, a radiator, a metal air conditioning duct or such, part of the neutral current will try to flow through this aalternate ground path. If the contact is not solid, you will get a significant arc (a low voltage, but possibly moderate current arc) Under the wrong conditions, this arcing could start a fire. It is possible in some cases that the sneak ground current could also flow through a wire of inadequate size, causing it to overheat. With the incorrect non single-point grounding of the neutral, if there is a short circuit from hot to neutral, the high short circuit current which may flow will cause a much higher voltage on the grounding conductor, which increases the possibility for shock or fire. Also if you incorrectly multiply connect the neutral and ground, the voltage on the ground system is seen as noise bu computer or audio equipment, often causing malfunction. I have spent some hours tracking down such shorts in technical facilities where they were inducing severe hum into equipment. The Neutral is usually bonded to the ground at the distribution transformer as well as at the service entrance of each dwelling. This is done primarily for lightning protection, so that induced lightning currents have a short path back to ground, and also to assure that the currents drawn by shorts to grounded objects like pipes draw enough current to trip circuit breakers or blow fuses quickly. The bad side of this is that not all the neutral current from the dwelling goes through the neutral wire back to the transformer. Some of it flows through the grounding electrode (water pipe, etc.) this may cause corrosion in the pipes and possibly in things like underground fuel oil tanks, and it may also cause measurable AC magnetic fields due to the large loop between the "hot" conductors in the service and the neutral current in the water pipe and ground. There are those who feel these fields may be unhealthy. (don't flame ME on this, I'm just telling you where the field comes from, not it's health effect, as far as I'm concerned, the jury is still out on this.) Note that the bonding jumper is only installed at the main panel, NOT at any sub distribution panels. This is one reason why it is illegal to run service entrance cable with the sheath used as a neutral to a sub panel, you must have a seperate insulated conductor for the neutral. The sheath can be used in this application only as the groundING conductor. If the neutral is bonded to the grounding conductor in the sub panel, say by forgetting to remove the bonding screw, all the grounding conductors of the loads on that panel will be above ground, with the possible problems listed above. The code makes exceptions for ranges and dryers, as well as feeds from one building to another. In the cases of the range and dryer, the neutral may be used as the equipment ground under certain conditions, instead of a seperate wire. Every time the code is revised, these exceptions come up for review. These exceptions were, in fact the first required safety grounds, in the days before U ground outlets and such. The appliance manufacturers don't want to have to redesign their ranges and driers, and the contractors don't want to have to run four wire cable (with four fairly heavy, expensive wires) in place of three wire to the appliances. No question it would be safer with seperate neutrals to the stove, but the neutral current is low for most burner settings (since most current is in the 220 volt "hots" except at some low settings, the wires are large gauge, and there are few reported cases of injury or damage. So far, the exceptions have survived. In the case of feeds between buildings, it's primarily for lightning protection. People doing wiring should be aware what is and what isn't a legal grounding conductor. Obviously, the bare wire in "romex" 'with ground' is. Anywhere there is a green wire installed, such as in a portable cord, that is a good grounding conductor. The sheath of BX clamped in BX connectors in metal boxes is a legal grounding conductor (in the US). (BX has an aluminum band run under the steel sheath to lower the resistance of the sheath. You can just cut this aluminum band off at the ends, you don't have to bond it to anything, it does its job by touching every turn of the BX sheath.) Conduit or EMT (thinwall tubing) is generally a legal grounding conductor, but may require a bonding locknut where it enters a box or panel, particularly for larger pipes. "Greenfield" (looks like big BX, but you pull your own wires in the empty sheath after you run it) is NOT a legal grounding conductor, as it doesn't have the aluminum band to bond it, and the spiral steel has too much resistance and inductance. You have to run a seperate green grounding conductor inside the greenfield. "Wiremold" is also not a legal grounding conductor, as the paint on the boxes often prevents good contact, and the "feed" to the wiremold extension is often from a box in the wall that may not be well connected to the first wiremold box. I have personally discovered cases where the entire run of wiremold and the cases of everything plugged into all the outlets on the run were "hot" with 120 volts (Why do I get a shock every time I touch my computer and the radiator here in the office?) because there was no ground wire in the wiremold and one of the outlets had shorted to the edge of the wiremold box. You must run a ground wire back in the wiremold from the outlets at least to the first box in the original wiring (conduit, BX, etc.) where you can "bond" the wire to the box with a screw, bnding clip, or whatever. On another issue, while you should ground the green wire/lug on GCFI outlets when ever there is a place to ground them, it is legal in the NEC to use them without a ground if no ground is available. It is better to have the protection of the Ground fault interrupter than no protection if you don't install it. The interrupter doesn't depend on the ground to trip. It is desirable to connect the ground if available, because if the ground is connected, the interrupter will trip as soon as a faulty device is plugged in, whereas without the ground, it will not trip until someone or something provides a ground path. For those questioning the legal use of ungrounded GCFI's, read in the NEC, 210-7 (d) exception. (This is the 1990 code, my '93 code is in the city, but I know the rule hasn't changed. It might be renumbered though.) We have only touched the surface concerning grounding ;-} , there is much more to this subject, but most of you have fallen asleep by now. John
:>Hey, gang, it's not about duck hunting, or about dark alleys, :>it's about black-clad, helmeted and booted troops storming :>houses and violating civil rights under color of law. :> :>Are YOU ready to defend YOUR Constitution? : :Its also about crazy fatigue clad survivalist types blasting the :snot out of people who accidentally stray onto his land in the :name of 'self defense.' Well, the count is now at least 86 dead by government action. How many have been killed in the last year in the manner you described? What, no facts? Oh, how silly of me; I forgot, you don't like guns, so you don't need no stinkin' facts. :Don't get too self-righteous, Mr. gun-toter. Don't get too smug, Mr. gun-hater. Mike Ruff
Hamza answers one of my articles: [TO] If indeed Israeli soldiers killed a "Hamas Mujahid" with an anti-tank [TO] missile then I'm almost sure that the "terrorist zionists" would not [TO] have been able to cut up a body which was probably desintegrated by the [TO] missile. [Hamza] maybe the missile didn't hit directly such that his body [Hamza] gets "desintegrated." of course, destroying 10 houses to [Hamza] kill someone is not a surgical operation, or is it? Well done Hamza. You edited my answer to Anas Omran, took everything out of context and then replied to it the way you wanted. Now I really understand why the peace process is not making any progress. You guys ain't listening, just babbling away to your same old rhetoric.
Hey, now will you stop encouraging him? Copy protection only serves one pur- pose: to keep the honest buyer from making (legal) backup copies. It will definitely not stop any pirates. If you want to protect you soft, supply a good documentation and support. This is IMHO the *only* way of effectively pro- tecting software. Best Regards, Arno --
As I'm sure others will have pointed out to you by now, none of the above measures are required for you *on your own property*. You do not have to have a license, your car does not have to be registered or inspected, and you do not have to have insurance or safety training classes, when you own and operate that vehicle on your own premises. If you are going to make use of this dubious analogy, at least make it accurate. And by the way, in Texas you can drive a car in public (with the proper credentials), but an ordinary civilian can't carry a gun legally in public to save his/her life. So I won't even consider registration, *manadatory* safety classes, or *manadatory* liability insurance unless I get a federal law repealing all local, state, and federal gun control laws which abridge the Second Amendment, and a non-discretionary federal weapons carry permit, good anywhere in the United States. Come on, you wanted the analogy. Mike Ruff
Grass Roots Motorsport [3/93] has a long article about MG/B's this month. As far as collectivity/speculation is concerned they think it is a waste of time, especially the later rubber bumpered models are the least desirable, a 1962 original model the most. The reasons for its low value are easy availability and the fact that it just was not a very good car.
Mouseless operation is documented in the man pages for olwm and olvwm... However, I can't get it to work in either. I have this line in my .Xdefaults: OpenWindows.KeyboardCommands: Full That should do it... I haven't rebound the keys. Am I missing something?
I may not be the world's greatest expert on chiggers (a type of mite indigenous to the south), but I certainly have spent a lot of time contemplating the little buggers over the past six years (since we moved to N.C.). Here are some observations gained from painful experience: 1. Reactions to chiggers vary greatly from person to person. Some people get tiny red bites. Others (like me) are more sensitive and get fairly large swollen sore-like affairs. 2. Chigger bites are the gift that keeps on giving. I swear that these things will itch for months. 3. There is a lot of folklore about chiggers. I think most of it is fiction. I have tried to do research on the critters, since they have such an effect on me. The only book I could find on the subject was a *single* book in UNC's special collections library. I have not yet gone through what is required to get it. 4. Based on my experience and that of my family members, the old folk remedy of fingernail polish simply doesn't work. I recall reading that the theory upon which it is based (that the chiggers burrow into your skin and continue to party there) is false. I think it is more likely that the reaction is to toxins of some sort the little pests release. But this is speculation. 5. The *best* approach is prevention. A couple of things work well. A good insect repellent (DEET) such as Deep Woods Off liberally applied to ankles, waistband, etc. is a good start. There is another preparation called "Chig Away" that is a combination of sulfur and some kind of cream (cortisone?) that originally was prepared for the Army and is not commercially available. In the summer I put this on my ankles every morning when I get up on weekends since I literally can't go outside where we live (in the country) without serious consequences. (They apparently don't like sulfur much at all. You can use sulfur as a dust on your body or clothing to repel them.) 6. No amount of prevention will be *completely* successful. Forget the fingernail polish. I have finally settled upon a treatment that involves topical application of a combination of cortisone creme (reduces the inflamation and swelling) and benzocaine (relieves the itch). I won't tell you all the things I've tried. Nor will I tell you some of the things my wife does since this counts as minor surgery and is best not mentioned (I also think it gains nothing). 7. The swelling and itching can also be significantly relieved by the application of hot packs, and this seems to speed recovery as well. Doctors seem not to care much about chiggers. The urban and suburban doctors apparently don't encounter them much. And the rural doctors seem to regard them as a force of nature that one must endure. I suspect that anyone who could come up with a good treatment for chiggers would make a *lot* of money.
Where did you hear this? If it is printed in a book somewhere, throw away the book. According to the MIT specs, only the first 2 are true.
I predict that the outcome of the study of what went wrong with the Federal Assault in Waco will result in future assaults of that type being conducted as full-scale military operations with explicit shoot-to-kill directives. -- Dave Feustel N9MYI <feustel@netcom.com>
I have before me a pertinent report from the United States General Accounting Office: National Aero-Space Plane: Restructuring Future Research and Development Efforts December 1992 Report number GAO/NSIAD-93-71 In the back it lists the following related reports: NASP: Key Issues Facing the Program (31 Mar 92) GAO/T-NSIAD-92-26 Aerospace Plane Technology: R&D Efforts in Japan and Australia (4 Oct 91) GAO/NSIAD-92-5 Aerospace Plane Technology: R&D Efforts in Europe (25 July 91) GAO/NSIAD-91-194 Aerospace Technology: Technical Data and Information on Foreign Test Facilities (22 Jun 90) GAO/NSIAD-90-71FS Investment in Foreign Aerospace Vehicle Research and Technological Development Efforts (2 Aug 89) GAO/T-NSIAD-89-43 NASP: A Technology Development and Demonstration Program to Build the X-30 (27 Apr 88) GAO/NSIAD-88-122 On the inside back cover, under "Ordering Information" it says "The first copy of each GAO report is free. . . . Orders may also be placed by calling (202)275-6241 " Dani
