12/12 Armenian Atrocities MOSCOW (AP) -- Azerbaijani forces on Saturday retook three villages seized by Armenians and discovered 16 bodies of executed civilians, Azerbaijani reports said. The Azerbaijani fighters found 16 bodies of civilians, including those of a child and two elderly women who were shot point-blank, "and survivors were killed by a shot to the back of the head," said a ministry statement, carried by the Azerbaijani Azerinform and Turan news agencies and the ITAR-Tass news service. "Everywhere Armenian occupants were, they left tens of corpses of civilians shot to death point-blank and mutilated," the... Serdar Argic
He's a shortstop by training, but he's been at second (mostly) and third this year for the Expos.
Posting for a friend. Contact directly or leave e-mail and I can forward. Brand spanking new. Still in original package. Never opened. Dayna EtherPrint-T. RJ-45 connector to support 10BASE-T-compliant networks. Connect LocalTalk-compatible printers directly to Ethernet networks. Will work with _ANY_ LocalTalk-compatible network printer, such as LaserWriter ImageWriter IBM 4216 Personal Page Printer II Hewlett-Packard DeskWriter Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printer family QUME printers Can daisy-chain a maximum of 4 LocalTalk devices, such as workstations modems printers to a single EtherPrint device. Support AppleTalk Phase 1 and Phase 2 protocols. $300 + shipping. Cheap ... $329 new without 10BASE-T in MAC World.
Okay, here is my configuration: 80486-33 Gateway 433C Micronics ISA 12MB RAM WD212MB IDE HD ( drive C: ) ST3144A 125MB IDE HD ( drive D: ) Adaptec SCSI 1542B controller, with SCSI BIOS enabled Seagate ST296N 80MB SCSI drive Alrighty, when I boot up I get the Adaptec BIOS message, but it says something like: "Drive C: installed" "Drive D: installed" "ADaptec SCSI BIOS not installed!" And I can't get to the Seagate drive. I go into PhoenixBIOS setup, remove the entry for drive D:, and BOOM, I can access the Seagate. Is there a way to get two IDE drives and the Seagate at the same time? I have ASPI4DOS.SYS, but it just hangs the system.
Hi everyone, I'm getting a car in the near future. I've narrow it down to 300ZX and SC300. Which might be a better choice? Thanks for your opnion, Danny --
: Could some one tell me what: : Phar Lap err 35: The 386 chip is currently executing in virtual : 8086 mode under the control : of another program. You must turn off this other program in order : to use 386|DOS-Extender to run in protected mode. : means. : This shows up on a CompuAdd Express 486-33 whenever a program : such as Matlab or Maple is run. It has been tried under dr-dos : 6.0, msdos 5.0, and 4dos 4.01. There is nothing, nada, in memory. : Nothing appears on a virus check. : Anybody? : -- : spectre@jupiter.nmt.edu spectre@cyborg1.nmt.edu : "This world? And everything in it? *Illusions*, Richard! Every bit : of it *illusions!* *Do you understand that?*" -- Donald Shimoda I used to get this problem with AutoCad when using the NOEMS switch with EMM386.EXE in DOS 5.0. If you allocate some ram to EMM386 the problem should go away.
The quick answer: Revelation 12:7-9 "And there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and his angels who fought back. But he [the dragon] was not strong enough, and they lost their place in heaven. The great dragon was hurled down--that ancient serpent, called the devil and Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled down to the earth, and his angels with him." The earlier part of chapter 12 deals (very symbolically) with why Satan rose up in battle against Michael and the good angels in the first place.
Great interview with Benjamin Netanyahu on CNN - Larry King Live (4/15/93) This guy is knows what he is talking about. He is truely charismatic, articulate, intelligent, and demonstrates real leadership qualities. I agree, but I wish I liked his politics.
This is why I asked to be 'enlightened'. You are making claims about what 'is' or 'is not' part of this program. But if the "block grants" go to states and cities, the mayors list is VERY relivent. Okay scarasm does deserve sacrasm, but I already contact my local officals, my congress rep., senators, Watch evening news, news programs, and C-SPAN. The fact is that Primetime (TM of ABC) has had numberous reposts on such waste programs that already exist. Again, if we are truely intrested in eliminating the DEBT, we must REMOVE the DEFICIT, and do away with ALL PORK !!! There have been several books written on gov. waste, network news programs from time to time devote segments to this, and there have been bills proposed that significantly reduces expenditures without touching external programs by changing the way 'congress does business' (and make it more efficent). True, blame is easy, but also is spending someone else's money. Clinton ran on a platform that he would '...not raise taxes on the middle class to pay for these (his) programs'. He has proposed a program that is not specific, that counts on tax hikes to pay for. -- ====================================================================== Ken M. Edwards, Bell Northern Research, Research Triangle Park, NC (919) 481-8476 email: cnc23a@bnr.ca Ham: N4ZBB All opinions are my own and do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or co-workers, family, friends, congress, or president.
Heise model 710A pressure meter. This is a precision 4-1/2 digit meter measuring 0 - 15 PSI (absolute) in .001 psi increments. Case is in extremely good shape, and can be used as a stand-alone meter or panel mounted. Brass fitting (looks like standard 3/8") on back. Operates from 110 VAC. I'd like $50 for it, or make an offer. It is a lot more useful to a lab than as an ersatz barometer, which is what I've been using it for. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------- Dave Medin Phone: (205) 730-3169 (w) SSD--Networking (205) 837-1174 (h) Intergraph Corp. M/S GD3004 Internet: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com Huntsville, AL 35894 UUCP: ...uunet!ingr!b30!catbyte!dtmedin ******* Everywhere You Look (at least around my office) *******
What is happening is this: 1) You turn the TV on. 2) The horizontal output begins normal operation. This powers up the high voltage and most of the rest of the circuitry. 3) A problem is sensed and the horizontal oscillator shuts down. 4) After it powers down the cycle repeats.
Title just 'bout says it all: Grasshopper Remote Controlled Car for Sale/Trade Features: -$75 racing engine installed (original included as well) -2 sets of tires -Futaba 2 channel radio with servos/receiver -body completly refinished - great shape -Battery and charger -every thing you need to have it running right out of the box, VERY fast -everything 100% I haven't run this thing in a long time. I had it out the other day just to check on it and everything is A-OK. I'd listen to ANY cash offers, but am more interested in trading for some extra storage for my computer. If you have any of the following and are interested in a trade, drop me a line: IDE hard drive 50+ megs (MUST be 3.5" wide, 1" tall) SCSI hard drive 50+ megs (MUST be 3.5" wide, 1" tall) SCSI tape backup (any make/size) SCSI CD-ROM 9600 baud modem (external)
I have the following GameBoy Games available for TRADE! Pitfighter Metroid II Bases Loaded Blades Of Steel Malibu Beach Volleyball World Cup Soccer Tennis.. Spiderman Robocop Motocross Maniacs Double Dribble 5 on 5 Basketball Looking for: Genesis Games Missile Command (Gameboy) Game Gear games Please leave e-mail if interested! Thanx Dave Webb P.S. I'm still waiting to hear from Allen Thoren Jr. about trading MB Volleyball for Missile Command... Please get in touch.
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: Assistance to Palest.people U.N. General Assembly Resolution 46/201 of 20 December 1991 ASSISTANCE TO THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE --------------------------------------------- The General Assembly Recalling its resolution 45/183 of 21 December 1990 Taking into account the intifadah of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory against the Israeli occupation, including Israeli economic and social policies and practices, Rejecting Israeli restrictions on external economic and social assistance to the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory, Concerned about the economic losses of the Palestinian people as a result of the Gulf crisis, Aware of the increasing need to provide economic and social assistance to the Palestinian people, Affirming that the Palestinian people cannot develop their national economy as long as the Israeli occupation persists, 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the Palestinian people; 2. Expresses its appreciation to the States, United Nations bodies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that have provided assistance to the Palestinian people, 3. Requests the international community, the United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to sustain and increase their assistance to the Palestinian people, in close cooperation with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), taking in account the economic losses of the Palestinian people as a result of the Gulf crisis; 4. Calls for treatment on a transit basis of Palestinian exports and imports passing through neighbouring ports and points of exit and entry; 5. Also calls for the granting of trade concessions and concrete preferential measures for Palestinian exports on the basis of Palestinian certificates of origin; 6. Further calls for the immediate lifting of Israeli restrictions and obstacles hindering the implementation of assistance projects by the United Nations Development Programme, other United Nations bodies and others providing economic and social assistance to the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory; 7. Reiterates its call for the implementation of development projects in the occupied Palestinian territory, including the projects mentioned in its resolution 39/223 of 18 December 1984; 8. Calls for facilitation of the establishment of Palestinian development banks in the occupied Palestinian territory, with a view to promoting investment, production, employment and income therein; 9. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General The General Assembly at its 47th session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the progress made in the implementation of the present resolution. -----------------------------------------------
There is no need to include the VAT from previous levels because the VAT is a "difference" tax...if the VAT is X%, than the amount of tax the government receives through all the levels is X% of the purchase price of the end consumer. At the intervening levels, only the difference between the VAT paid out and the VAT received is remitted to the government. A VAT is infinitely preferable to a retail sails tax...
Absolutely. I'm sure that civilians on both sides would be pleased if the fighters (military, guerilla, whatever) would just take their argument elsewhere, find an unpopulated area somewhere, and slug it out. At that point, we will all breath a sigh of relief *and* cheer for our side in the struggle.
) )That's your mistake. It would be better for the children if the mother )raised the child. ) )One thing that relates is among Navy men that get tatoos that say "Mom", )because of the love of their mom. It makes for more virile men. )Compare that with how homos are raised. Do a study and you will get my )point. ) )But in no way do you have a claim that it would be better if the men )stayed home and raised the child. That is something false made up by )feminists that seek a status above men. You do not recognize the fact )that men and women have natural differences. Not just physically, but )mentally also. ) [...] )Your logic. I didn't say americans were the cause of worlds problems, I )said atheists. ) [...] )Becuase they have no code of ethics to follow, which means that atheists )can do whatever they want which they feel is right. Something totally )based on their feelings and those feelings cloud their rational )thinking. ) [...] )Yeah. I didn't say that all atheists are bad, but that they could be )bad or good, with nothing to define bad or good. ) Awright! Bobby's back, in all of his shit-for-brains glory. Just when I thought he'd turned the corner of progress, his Thorazine prescription runs out. I'd put him in my kill file, but man, this is good stuff. I wish I had his staying power. Fortunately, I learned not to take him too seriously long,long,long ago. /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ Bob Beauchaine bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM They said that Queens could stay, they blew the Bronx away, and sank Manhattan out at sea.
Well it still looks like you've got an attitude problem Mr. Muttonhead. You should take the comments with more sensitivity. I still despise most people who belittle drinking and driving since my first girlfriend was killed by such an asshole back in '85. Learn to take the verbal abuse. If you can't take the flames, and you can't use your brains, stay out of the newsgroup.
Greetings, My question is whether the upcoming release of X11R6 will provide (strong) authentication between the X clients and server(s). If so, will this feature be based on the Kerberos authentication mechanism (and, if so, will Kerberos Version 5 be used)? Please reply via email. Thanks, --Andre -- Andre S. Cosma | RRC 1N-215 | Bellcore - Security and andre@bae.bellcore.com | 444 Hoes Lane | Data Services (908) 699-8441 | Piscataway, NJ 08854|
I have a vt200 and vt100 compatible terminal with 1200 external hyess modem amber screens 101 keyboard,cable make an offer 0
does anyone have Prez. Clinton`s e-mail address. thanks a lot
Water. Nuclear stations don't generate electricity directly from the reactor, they use the reactor to generate heat. The heat is then used to heat water just as in a conventional oil or coal station, and the resultant steam drives the turbines. The cooling towers are used to cool the steam and recondense it into water to continue the cycle Steve
this is a tesrt s
Dear SGI and netter GL-X Mixed-Model experts, I am writing a mixed model application that creates a couple different color maps for different windows, and I've been having trouble getting the window manager to reliably honor my requests. In some environments (entry level R3000 Indigo w/ 4.0.5) all windows are getting properly connected to their designated color maps, but on others (an IRIS 4D 240/GTX; also a different entry level Indigo) the color mapping is unreliable and changes behavior when I compile at different times. The most common problem is that all non-top-level windows fail to be displayed according to their colormap. My application starts out by creating three top-level windows; in some cases all but the first of these also fail to be displayed by their colormap. This is spectacularly aggravating. I would dearly appreciate 1. an explanation of the standard, RIGHT, CORRECT way to give a window a colormap such that the Window Manager will Honor and Obey it; 2. any advice about problems that could cause my failure to get my desired colormaps. By now I have exhausted my own attempts on this, having tried everything reasonable or imaginable. Below is example code giving the schematic for how I have been *TRYING* to do this. Please, please, please SOMEBODY tell me what I am doing wrong/how to do it right!!! Yours, Chris Lee /***********************************************************************/ Display* dpy; /* DECLARE SOME DATA... */ Colormap popup_cmap; XColor mycolor; Window win; XSetWindowAttributes cwa; int nwlist; Window *wlist; /* NB: FOR BREVITY, NOT SHOWING ALL CODE LINES--JUST A SCHEMATIC */ popup_cmap=XCreateColormap(dpy,DefaultRootWindow(dpy),vis->visual,AllocAll); /* HERE WE STORE A BUNCH OF COLORS USING XStoreColor(dpy,popup_cmap,&mycolor); ... */ cwa.colormap = popup_cmap; win = XCreateWindow(dpy, parent, x, y, w, h, borderWidth, vis->depth, InputOutput, vis->visual, CWColormap|CWBorderPixel, &cwa); /* LIST ALL SUB WINDOWS OF my_topwin, PARENT OF win, INTO wlist; nwlist IS COUNTER OF ENTRIES IN wlist. NB: wlist is static storage that can be relied on not to go away or be corrupted. I thought of that! Does anyone know if setting WM properties is by data copy, or by reference pointer? ie. is it acceptable to pass data for a Property, then free the data? */ XSetWMColormapWindows(dpy,my_topwin,wlist,nwlist); XMapRaised(Display0,win);
I don't know if there's a corresponding patch for Solaris 2.1, but this sounds like the following bug which is supposedly fixed in 100492-06, the Solaris 1.x olwm Jumbo patch: 1108642 - window system can hang in an errant pointer grab Actually, I suspect that the OW 3.1 problem may be different, since the README file says that this patch is just a SunOS 4.x version of the OW 3.1 olwm (but maybe that line came from an earlier version of the patch, and they forgot to take it out in the -06 version). -- Barry Margolin System Manager, Thinking Machines Corp.
========================= =Car Audio System Items:= ========================= Sony XR-7070 Head Unit (Radio): Pullout ============================== 20 W x 4 max. Dolby B. Controls all Sony CD Changers: disc/track select; track/disc scan; repeat; shuffle play. Features auto reverse; logic controls. 6AM/18FM presets; strong station memory; preset scan; tuner monitor; seek/manual tuning; mono/stereo and local/dx switches. Metal tape compatible. Fader.......Orig $299 Sony CDX-A15 10 Disc CD Changer: =============================== 4x oversampling, dual D/A converters with single clock design. Features one-beam laser; spring and silicon-charged suspension system; horizontal or vertical mounting; 13-pin DIN connector; 10-disc magazine; connecting cable. 5-20,000 Hz; 0.05% THD.......Orig $399 **** ASKING **** $450 for Both the Radio (CD Controller) and the CD Changer. There are no problems with either unit and they are both in reasonably good condition. (The Radio and CD Changers will only be sold TOGETHER.). TWO (2) Coustic Amp-360: ======================== 3 Channels; bridgeable. 30w x 2 + 105w X 1 into 4 ohms from 20-20,000 Hz with 0.09% Thd. 1 Channel - 150w x 1 into 4 ohms from 20-20,000 Hz with 0.2% Thd or 2 Channels - 65w x 2 into 4 ohms from 20-20,000 Hz with 0.09% Thd. 2 ohm stable. Features pwm switching power supply w/ protection circuits.......Orig $249 **** ASKING **** $150/each. The units are in good working condition and are currently being used to supply power to my subs (Can demonstrate power ratings!!). If you are interested in any of the above items, or have any questions drop me some E-Mail.
Anyone here know if NCD is doing educational pricing on these software packages for those of us strapped for cash? Thanks =eugene= s
My wife and I looked at, and drove one last fall. This was a 1992 model. It was WAYYYYYYYYY underpowered. I could not imagine driving it in the mountains here in Colorado at anything approaching highway speeds. I have read that the new 1993 models have a newer, improved hp engine. I'm quite serious that I laughed in the salesman face when he said "once it's broken in it will feel more powerful". I had been used to driving a Jeep 4.0L 190hp engine. I believe the 92's Land Cruisers (Land Yachts) were 3.0L, the sames as the 4Runner, which is also underpowered (in my own personal opinion). They are big cars, very roomy, but nothing spectacular.
You still need to supply a proper ground for a Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter! So rewiring is still a part of this job, however, the ground may be connected to a local earth ground, rather than back at the breaker box. As Jamie said, GFCI devices are required by code in a number of places, most notably: bathrooms, and outside the house. I do suggest the use of GFCI outlets, rather than the breakers. You will end up with much less headaches. Noise pickup in long cable runs is sometimes enough to cause frequent tripping of the breakers. GFCI devices do save lives, if you decide to install them, be sure to check them regularly (using the test button). Running the family business (electrical supplies and lighting) for many years, I have seen too many seasoned electricians fried, because they forgot to double check their common sense list. Please exercise caution. --- Gary Gendel Vice President: Current consulting assignment: Genashor Corp Mentor Graphics Corporation 9 Piney Woods Drive 15 Independence Boulevard Belle Mead, NJ 08502 Warren, NJ 07059
Unless I've got my notes mixed up, 939 F.2d 499 comes close to this. Regular guy. Blue-collar worker at a regular company. Hauled into court. Convicted. Appeals to 7th circuit. Makes all the right arguments (his brief is cited by Mr. Teel as an example of a "winning" brief). Shot down, 3-zip by the 7th circuit. Appeals to the Supreme Court. And... ...Certiorari denied. Defendant goes to jail. Oh well.
A number of points. You are making assumptions about the manner in which the cards are used. True, by law, all residents, citizens, and tourists must carry a form of identification with them. For citizens, the standard ID is the ID card. The purpose this serves on a daily basis, wherein they are presented at public places, is for the purpose of identifying the bearer. This takes place in banks (cashing checks), post offices (registered mail and such), etc... Quite frankly, it was rare that I ever had to present my ID card for such activities more than once per week. There is no law or requirement that forces people to wave their ID cards in public. Furthermore, none of the services I outlined discriminate against the bearer in any manner by having access to this information. The only case that I can think of in which the Le'um field might be taken into account is during interaction with the police, based upon the scenario. In general though, arab citizens are clearly recognizable, as are non-arabs. Your argument therefore becomes moot unless you can provide an example of how this field is being used to discriminate against them officially. I take issue with your assertions. I think that Arab countries do know that they have nothing to fear from "Israeli expansionism". Militarily, Israel is not capable of holding onto large tracts of land under occupation to a hostile, armed, and insurgent population for a sustained period of time. As is, the intifada is heavily taxing the Israeli economy. Proof of this can be seen in the Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon. Israeli troops pulled back from the Awali, and later from the Litani, in order to control the minimal strip needed to keep towns out of range of Katyusha missile fire. Public opinion in Israel has turned towards settling the intifada via territorial concessions. The Israel public is sufferring from battle fatigue of sorts and the gov't is aware of it. With regards to borders, let me state the following. I may not agree with the manner in which negotiations are being held, however the crux of the matter is that everyone either makes or refrains from stating a starting position. The arab parties have called for total withdrawal and a return to pre-48 borders. If Israel were to state large borders, the negotiations might never get under way. If Israel were to state smaller borders, then the arab countries might try and force even smaller borders during the negotiations. I think that leaving the matter to be settled by negotiations and peace treaties is infinitely more realistic and sensible. Your statement is typical of the simple minded naivety of a "center for policy research". Whether or not all of Vanunu's revelations were true has no bearing on the fact that some were. For disclosing "state secrets" after having signed contracts and forms with the understanding that said secrets are not to be made public, one should be punished. As to which were and which weren't, I am under no moral obligation to disclose that - quite the reverse in fact. He was taken to court, tried, and found guilty. You may take issue with a number of things but clearly you have no understanding of the concept of "Secrets of state", something which every democratic govt has. I noticed that he was documenting the fact that such prisoners could exist more than he documented the fact that they do exist. The CLU noted, which you evidently did not pay attention to, that they know of no such reports or cases. I am sorry to tell you but in a country of 4 mill, as tightly knit as Israel, even if the matter of the arrest was not made public, within a relatively short time frame, most people would know about it. My own feelings are that the matter of the arrest should be made public unless a court order is issued allowing a delay of X hours. This would be granted only if a judge could be convinced that an announcement would cause irreparable harm to the ongoing investigation. Well, I am sorry to say that your questions are slanted. Such questions are often termed "tabloid journalism" and are not disturbing because they avoid any attempt at objectivity. Such questions were often used during the McCarthy era as a basis for the witch-hunts that took place then. To use your own example, these questions might have been lifted from the format used by Stalinist prosecutors that were looking for small bits of evidence that they could distort and portray as a larger and dirtier picture. My answers were not any more "hysterical" than the questions themselves. The problem is not that the q's were provocative, it was that they were selective in their fact seeking. You fall into the same category of those who seek "yes" "no" answers when the real answer is "of sorts". I suspect that as long as the answers to these questions is not an unequivocal NO, you would remain unsatified and choose to interprete them as you see fit. A sign of strength is the ability to look You remind me of those mistaken environmentalists who once advocated culling wolves because of the cruelty to deer, only to find that they had broken the food chain and wreaked havoc upon the very environment they sought to protect. The color blindness you exhibit is a true sign of weakness. Ditto.
Why is that terrible ? That's exactly the way our code has been doing it for two years now and is the way that temporary files in UNIX systems are managed most of the time (open, unlink). Burkhard Neidecker-Lutz
The gravity data is collected in real-time and it not recorded to the tape recorder. However, you only need to collect the gravity every 3rd or 4th orbit, so there is no real data loss if the Moon blocks transmission for a short while.
"Assuming"? Also: come on, Brad. If we are going to get anywhere in this (or any) discussion, it doesn't help to bring up elements I never addressed, *nor commented on in any way*. I made no comment on who is "right" or who is "wrong", only that civilians ARE being used as cover and that, having been placed "in between" the Israelis and the guerillas, they *will* be injured as both parties continue their fight. [The *purpose* of an army's use of military uniforms is *to set its members apart* from the civilians so that civilians will not be thought of by the other side as "combatants". So, what do you think is the "meaning behind", the intention and the effect when an "army" purposely *does not were uniforms but goes out of its way to *look like civilians'? *They are judging that the benefit they will receive from this "cover" is more important that the harm that will come to civilians.* This is a comment on the Israeli experience and is saying that the guerillas *do* have some responsibility in putting civilians in "the middle" of this fight. By putting on uniforms and living apart from civilians (barracks, etc.), the guerillas would significantly lower the risk to civilians. But if the guerillas do this aren't *they* putting themselves at greater risk? Absolutely, they ask themselves "why set ourselves apart (by wearing uniforms) when there is a ready-made cover for us (civilians)? That makes sense from their point of view, BUT when this cover is used, the guerillas should accept some of the responsibility for subsequent harm to civilians. I agree with you here. I have always thought that Israel's bombing sortees and bombing policy is stupid, thoughtless, inhumane AND ineffective. BUT, there is no reason that Israel should passive wait until attackers chose to act; there is every reason to believe that "taking the fight *to* the enemy" will do more to stop attacks. As I said previously, Israel spent several decades "sitting passively" on its side of a border and only acting to stop these attacks *after* the attackers had entered Israeli territory. It didn't work very well. The "host" Arab state did little/nothing to try and stop these attacks from its side of the border with Israel so the number of attacks were considerably higher, as was their physical and psychological impact on the civilians caught in their path. This is just another "selectively applied" statement. The reason for this drawn-out impasse between Ababs/Palestinians and Israelis is that NEITHER side is willing to accept the Word of the other. By your criteria *everyone* should stay away from the negotiations. That is precisely why the Palestinians (in their recent PISGA proposal for the "interim" period after negotiations and leading up to full autonomy) are demanding conditions that essentially define "autonomy" already. They DO NOT trust that Israel will "follow through" the entire process and allow Palestinians to reach full autonomy. Do you understand and accept this viewpoint by the Palestinians? If you do, then why should Israel's view of Arabs/Palestinians be any different? Why should they trust the Arab/Palestinians' words? Since they don't, they are VERY reluctant to give up "tangible assets (land, control of areas) in exchange for "words". For this reason, they are also concerned about the sorts of "guarantees" they will have that the Arabs WILL follow through on their part of any agreement reached. Absolutely, so are the Arabs/Palestinians asking FIRST for the Israelis "word" in relation to any agreement? NO, what is being demanded FIRST is LAND. When the issue is LAND, and one party finally gets HOLD of this "land", what the "other party" does is totally irrelevent. If I NOW have possession of this land, your words have absolutely no power; whether Israel chooses to keeps its word does NOT get the land back. While the "major armaments" (those allowing people to wage "civil wars") have been removed, the weapons needed to cross-border attacks still remain to some extent. Rocket attacks still continue, and "commando" raids only require a few easily concealed weapons and a refined disregard for human life (yours of that of others). Such attacks also continue. Bat guano. The situation you call for existed in the 1970s and attacks were commonplace. There is NO WAY these groups can be effectively "disarmed" UNLESS the state is as authoritarian is Syria's. The only other way is for Lebanon to take it upon itself to constantly patrol the entire border with Israel, essentially mirroring Israel's border secirity on its side. It HAS TO PROVE TO ISREAL that it is this committed to protecting Israel from attack from Lebanese territory. That's what I said, ok? But, doesn't that mean that Syria has to "take over" Lebanon? I don't think Israel or Lebanon would like that. What both "sides" need is to receive something "tangible". The Arabs/ Palestinians are looking for "land" and demanding that they receive it prior to giving anything to Israel. Israel has two problems: 1) if it gives up real *land* it IS exposing itself to a changed geostrategic situation (and that change doesn't help Israel's position), and 2) WHEN it gives up this land IT NEEDS to receive something in return to compensate for the increased risks
More correctly: when people die, they cease to exist. The idea I've gotten is that to christians, Hell is -- like Heaven -- afterlife; i.e, you don't cease to exist, but are subjected to eternal torture (well, that's the orthodox idea anyway; "eternal death" if you prefer that). Atheists don't believe in any sort of afterlife. I think it's safe to say that Hell was never intended metaphorical. Certainly not the equivalent of ceasing to exist. Some christian concepts are indeed metaphors, but your idea of Hell is a 20th century interpretation. It is, of course, nice to see that even christianity might evolve to fit the worldview of modern age, but I fear the church will not accept it. Understandably, per- haps, because if you accept that Hell is a metaphor, then you're one step closer to turning God into a metaphor as well.
BTW, the X11 tools come as sources. The sillyness of most vendors lets you stuck with binaries. Anyway, have a look onto xgrab/xgrabsc. It does the IMHO best job for this, including compression.
It's hard to beat a car-bomb with a suicidal driver in getting right up to the target before blowing up. Even booby-traps and radio-controlled bombs under cars are pretty efficient killers. You have a point. Is this part of your Islamic value-system? Had Israeli methods been anything like this, then Iraq wouldn've been nuked long ago, entire Arab towns deported and executions performed by the tens of thousands. The fact is, though, that Israeli methods aren't even 1/10,000th as evil as those which are common and everyday in Arab states. "Israeli soil"???? Brad/Ali! Just wait until the Ayatollah's thought-police get wind of this. It's all "Holy Muslim Soil (tm)". Have you forgotten? May Allah have mercy on you now.
Careful now folks... Also consider the 90VAC+ @20Hz that is forced on ring and tip when the phone's supposed to ring! Even with a simple zener and LED setup, you might end up with some carbon real quick. Whatever scheme you use, make sure you've got at least 200V-rated components on the frontend. Also remember that, if I'm not mistaken, the phone line is a 600ohm equivalent circuit. Any current you draw from the 48V or so gets dropped across that 600ohms. That's fine until you're down to roughly 12V, when Ma Bell considers it to be off-hook. But dropping it that far down is probably a big no-no. The easiest implementation to accomplish the above?? tip ------->|-----\/\/\/\-----+----------+ rectifier resistor | | diode | \ V / zener /---/ \ resistor | / | | | V LED | --- | | ring --------------------------+----------+ This is only a suggestion...go ahead and blow holes in it, but you get the idea. Choose a high-efficiency LED so you don't need much current to get it to light up. Choose values for the other components as required.
Neither did he! Overall? How do you figure? So far my radio hasn't exploded from not being tuned to 660...
Hi, I am programming in XView, SunOS 4.1.2 & OpenWindows 3.0. I would like to rotate some text and display it. I did read the FAQ in comp.windows.x but am not sure how do I translate it to XView. I would appreciate if someone can give me tips on how to do it. Thanx. - Mahendra. PS : As I am not a frequent news group reader, I would appreciate if answers/replies would be mailed to me. I will post a follow-up. --
The argument for Luke's genealogy being that of Mary is very weak. According to Luke 3:23 And when he began his ministry, Jesus himself was about thirty years of age, being supposedly the son of Joseph, the son of Eli, Aside from the fact that Mary is not mentioned, there are two possible interpretations: either Joseph was her father or he was her brother. Clearly this is not acceptable. A third would be that Joseph, the son of Eli, was her Father and just happened to have the name as the man to whom she was betrothed. But that would seem to be grasping at straws. The most straightforward interpretation is that Luke had no intention of tracing Mary's genealogy (in which case he would have named her) but that he traces her husband's, from David's son Nathan. The Matthew descendant list most definitely traces down from David's son, Solomon, to Joseph. Matthew 1:16 reads: And to Jacob was born Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. There are two apparent problems. The first is, how to reconcile the two paternal genealogies - which diverge with the sons of David, Solomon and Nathan. The second is, why is any genealogy of Joseph relavent at all, if Joseph had nothing to do with it. If Joseph was not Jesus's physical father, then the original poster is quite correct, that claims for Jesus's messianic heritage are not based on truth but only on appearances, whatever Jesus's divine nature was. The second problem is easy, in my mind. We assume that Joseph was not involved in the conception of Jesus in any way. However, a Holy Spirit capable of working a physical conception in Mary is also capable of employing the physical agency of Joseph's seed in this work. In our materialistic times we interpret viginity and its loss solely in terms of a physical act, whereas it is really a matter of purity on a much higher level as well. The important thing is that neither Mary nor Joseph was conscious of any union between them (they had not "known"each other). Thus the first gospel's dedication of half its opening chapter to the genealogy of Joseph is quite relevant to Jesus, the Virgin birth not- withstanding. To the first question there is an answer that creates, to begin with, more problems than it resolves. It is that the two evangelists are relating the births of two entirely different children of two entirely different sets of parents. Except for the names of the parents and the child, and the birthplace in Bethlehem there is no point in common between the two stories. Matthew and Luke converge in their accounts only thirty years later with the Baptism of Jesus in Jordan. Rudolf Steiner offered his explanation of how these accounts begin with two children and then converge with their accounts of the one Jesus of Nazareth. He did not derive his resolution from biblical study or speculation, or from other external documents, and the discussion of "how this could be" might bring us beyond the limits of appropriateness for this newsgroup. In any case, the details are described in Steiner's "The Spiritual Guidance of the Human Being and of Humanity", "The Gospel of St. Luke", and "The Gospel of St. Matthew". Whether or not Rudolf Steiner's methods and explanation are accepted as valid, at least this interpretation resolves the apparent contradictions of the two genealogies while leaving the text intact. As for the passing of one's Jewishness through the mother, this was never an issue with Jesus. No one ever questioned his or Mary's Jewishness. The issue of the genealogies has to do with his paternal line of descent from David, the king.
Accounts of Anti-Armenian Human Right Violations in Azerbaijan #008 Part A Prelude to Current Events in Nagorno-Karabakh (Part A of #008) +------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | | "Oh, yes, I just remembered. While they were raping me they | | repeated quite frequently, "Let the Armenian women have babies | | for us, Muslim babies, let them bear Azerbaijanis for the | | struggle against the Armenians." Then they said, "Those | | Muslims can carry on our holy cause. Heroes!" They repeated | | it very often." | | | +------------------------------------------------------------------+ DEPOSITION OF LYUDMILA GRIGOREVNA M. Born 1959 Teacher Sumgait Secondary School No. 10 Secretary of the Komsomol Organization at School No. 10 Member of the Sumgait City Komsomol Committee Office Resident at Building 17/33B, Apartment 15 Microdistrict No. 3 Sumgait [Azerbaijan] [Note: The events in Kafan, used as a pretext to attack Armenians in Azerbaijan are false, as verified by independent International Human Rights organizations - DD] I'm thinking about the price the Sumgait Armenians paid to be living in Armenia now. We paid for it in human casualties and crippled fates--the price was too great! Now, after the Sumgait tragedy, we, the victims, divide our lives into "before" and ''after." We talk like that: that was before the war. Like the people who went through World War II and considered it a whole epoch, a fate. No matter how many years go by, no matter how long we live, it will never be forgotten. On the contrary, some of the moments become even sharper: in our rage, in our sorrow, we saw everything differently, but now . . . They say that you can see more with distance, and we can see those inhuman events with more clarity now . . . we more acutely perceive our losses and everything that happened. Nineteen eighty-eight was a leap year. Everyone fears a leap year and wants it to pass as quickly as possible. Yet we never thought that that leap year would be such a black one for every Sumgait Armenian: those who lost someone and those who didn't. That second to last day of winter was ordinary for our family, although you could already smell danger in the air. But we didn't think that the danger was near and possible, so we didn't take any steps to save ourselves. At least, as my parents say, at least we should have done something to save the children. My parents themselves are not that old, 52 and 53 years. But then they thought that they had already lived enough, and did everything they could to save us. In our apartment the tragedy started on February 28, around five in the afternoon. I call it a tragedy, and I repeat: it was a tragedy even though all our family survived. When I recall how they broke down our door my skin crawls; even now, among Armenians, among people who wish me only well, I feel like it's all starting over again. I remember how that mob broke into our apartment . . . My parents were standing in the hall. My father had an axe in his hands and had immediately locked both of the doors. Our door was rarely locked since friends and neighbors often dropped by. We're known as a hospitable family, and we just never really thought about whether the people who were coming to see us were Azerbaijanis, Jews, or Russians. We had friends of many nationalities, even a Turkmen woman. My parents were in the hall, my father with an axe. I remember him telling my mother, "Run to the kitchen for a knife." But Mother was detached, pale, as though she had decided to sell her life a bit dearer. To be honest I never expected it of her, she's afraid of getting shot and afraid of the dark. A girlfriend was at the house that day, a Russian girl, Lyuda, and Mamma said, "No matter what happens, no matter what they do to us, you're not to come out of the bedroom. We're going to tell them that we're alone in the apartment." We went into the bedroom. There were four of us. Marina and the Russian girl crawled under the bed, and we covered them up with a rug, boxes of dishes, and Karina and I are standing there and looking at one another. The idea that perhaps we were seeing each other for the last time flashed somewhere inside me. I'm an emotional person and I express my emotions immediately. I wanted to embrace her and kiss her, as though it were the last second. And maybe Karina was thinking the same thing, but she's quite reserved. We didn't have time to say anything to each other because we immediately heard Mamma raise a shout. There was so much noise from the tramping of feet, from the shouting, and from excited voices. I couldn't figure what was going on out there because the door to the bedroom was only open a crack. But when Mamma shouted the second time Karina ran out of the bedroom. I ran after her, I had wanted to hold her back, but when she opened the door and ran out into the hall they saw us immediately. The only thing I managed to do was close the door behind me, at least so as to save Marina and her friend. The mob was shouting, all of their eyes were shining, all red, like from insomnia. At first about 40 people burst in, but later I was standing with my back to the door and couldn't see. They came into the hall, into the kitchen, and dragged my father into the other room. He didn't utter a word, he just raised the axe to hit them, but Mamma snatched the axe from behind and said, "Tell them not to touch the children. Tell them they can do as they want with us, but not to harm the children." She said this to Father in Armenian. There were Azerbaijanis from Armenia among the mob who broke in. They understood Armenian perfectly. The local Azerbaijanis don't know Armenian, they don't need to speak it. And one of them responded in Armenian: "You and your children both . . . we're going to do the same thing to you and your children that you Armenians did in Kafan. They killed our women, our girls, our mothers, they cut their breasts off, and burned our houses . . . ," and so on and so forth, "and we came to do the same thing to you." This whole time some of them are destroying the house and the others are shouting at us. They were mostly young people, under 30. At first there weren't any older people among them. And all of their faces were unfamiliar. Sumgait is a small town, all the same, and we know a lot of people by their faces, especially me, I'm a teacher. So they dragged my father into the other room. They twisted his arms and took him in there, no they didn't take him in there, they dragged him in there, because he was already unable to walk. They closed the door to that room all but a crack. We couldn't see what was happening to Father, what they were doing to him. Then a young man, about 26 years old, started to tear off Mamma's sarafan, and Mamma shouted at him in Azerbaijani: "I'm old enough to be your mother! What are you doing?!" He struck her. Now he's being held, Mamma identified him. I hope he's convicted. Then they went after Karina, who's been talking to them like a Komsomol leader, as though she were trying to lead them down a different path, as they say, to influence their consciousness. She told them that what they were doing was wrong, that they mustn't do it. She said, "Come on, let's straighten this out, without emotions. What do you want? Who are you? Why did you come here? What did we ever do to you?" Someone tried to explain who they were and why they had come into our home, but then the ones in the back--more of them kept coming and coming--said, "What are you talking to, them for. You should kill them. We came here to kill them." They pushed Karina, struck her, and she fell down. They beat her, but she didn't cry out. Even when they tore her clothes off, she kept repeating, "What did we do to you? What did we do to you?" And even later, when she came to, she said, "Mamma, what did we do to them? Why did they do that to us?" That group was prepared, I know this because I noticed that some of them only broke up furniture, and others only dealt with us. I remember that when they were beating me, when they were tearing my clothes off, I felt neither pain nor shame because my entire attention was riveted to Karina. All I could do was watch how much they beat her and how painful it was for her, and what they did to her. That's why I felt no pain. Later, when they carried Karina off, they beat her savagely . . . It's really amazing that she not only lived, but didn't lose her mind . She is very beautiful and they did everything they could to destroy her beauty. Mostly they beat her face, with their fists, kicking her, using anything they could find. Mamma, Karina, and I were all in one room. And again I didn't feel any pain, just didn't feel any, no matter how much they beat me, no matter what they did. Then one of those creeps said that there wasn't enough room in the apartment. They broke up the beds and the desk and moved everything into the corners so there would be more room. Then someone suggested, "Let's take her outside." Those beasts were in Heaven. They did what they would do every day if they weren't afraid of the authorities. Those were their true colors. At the time I thought that in fact they would always behave that way if they weren't afraid of what would happen to them. When they carried Karina out and beat Mamma-her face was completely covered with blood--that's when I started to feel the pain. I blacked out several times from the pain, but each moment that I had my eyes open it was as though I were recording it all on film. I think I'm a kind person by nature, but I'm vengeful, especially if someone is mean to me, and I don't deserve it. I hold a grudge a long time if someone intentionally causes me pain. And every time I would come to and see one of those animals on top of me, I'd remember them, and I'll remember them for the rest of my life, even though people tell me "forget," you have to forget, you have to go on living. At some point I remember that they stood me up and told me something, and despite the fact that I hurt all over--I had been beaten terribly--I found the strength in myself to interfere with their tortures. I realized that I had to do something: resist them or just let them kill me to bring my suffering to an end. I pushed one of them away, he was a real horse. I remember now that he's being held, too. As though they were all waiting for it, they seized me and took me out onto the balcony. I had long hair, and it was stuck all over me. One of the veranda shutters to the balcony was open, and I realized that they planned to throw me out the window, because they had already picked me up with their hands, I was up in the air. As though for the last time I took a really deep breath and closed my eyes, and somehow braced myself inside, I suddenly became cold, as though my heart had sunk into my feet. And suddenly I felt myself flying. I couldn't figure out if I was really flying or if I just imagined it. When I came to I thought now I'm going to smash on the ground. And when it didn't happen I opened my eyes and realized that I was still lying on the floor. And since I didn't scream, didn't beg them at all, they became all the more wild, like wolves. They started to trample me with their feet. Shoes with heels on them, and iron horseshoes, like they had spe- cially put them on. Then I lost consciousness. I came to a couple of times and waited for death, summoned it, beseeched it. Some people ask for good health, life, happiness, but at that moment I didn't need any of those things. I was sure that none of us would survive, and I had even forgotten about Marina; and if none of us was alive, it wasn't worth living. There was a moment when the pain was especially great. I withstood inhuman pain, and realized that they were going to torment me for a long time to come because I had showed myself to be so tenacious. I started to strangle myself, and when I started to wheeze they realized that with my death I was going to put an end to their pleasures, and they pulled my hands from my throat. The person who injured and insulted me most painfully I remember him very well, because he was the oldest in the group. He looked around 48. I know that he has four children and that he considers himself an ideal father and person, one who would never do such a thing. Something came over him then, you see, even during the investigation he almost called me "daughter," he apologized, although, of course, he knew that I'd never forgive him. Something like that I can never forgive. I have never injured anyone with my behavior, with my words, or with my deeds, I have always put myself in the other person's shoes, but then, in a matter of hours, they trampled me entirely. I shall never forget it. I wanted to do myself in then, because I had nothing to lose, because no one could protect me. My father, who tried to do something against that hoard of beasts by himself, could do nothing and wouldn't be able to do anything. I knew that I was even sure that he was no longer alive. And Ira Melkumian, my acquaintance I knew her and had been to see her family a couple of times--her brother tried to save her and couldn't, so he tried to kill her, his very own sister. He threw an axe at her to kill her and put an end to her suffering. When they stripped her clothes off and carried her into the other room, her brother knew what awaited her. I don't know which one it was, Edik or Igor. Both of them were in the room from which the axe was thrown. But the axe hit one of the people carrying her and so they killed her and made her death even more excruciating, maybe the most excruciating of all the deaths of those days in Sumgait. I heard about it all from the neighbor from the Melkumians' landing. His name is Makhaddin, he knows my family a little. He came to see how we had gotten settled in the new apartment in Baku, how we were feeling, and if we needed anything. He's a good person. He said, "You should praise God that you all survived. But what I saw with my own eyes, I, a man, who has seen so many people die, who has lived a whole life, I," he says, "nearly lost my mind that day. I had never seen the likes of it and think I never shall again." The door to his apartment was open and he saw everything. One of the brothers threw the axe, because they had already taken the father and mother out of the apartment. Igor, Edik, and Ira remained. He saw Ira, naked, being carried into the other room in the hands of six or seven people. He told us about it and said he would never forget it. He heard the brothers shouting something, inarticulate from pain, rage, and the fact that they were powerless to do anything. But all the same they tried to do something. The guy who got hit with the axe lived. I I After I had been unsuccessful at killing myself I saw them taking Marina and Lyuda out of the bedroom. I was in such a state that I couldn't even remember my sister's name. I wanted to cry "Marina!" out to her, but could not. I looked at her and knew that it was a familiar, dear face, but couldn't for the life of me remember what her name was and who she was. And thus I saved her, because when they were taking her out, she, as it turns out, had told them that she had just been visiting and that she and Lyuda were both there by chance, that they weren't Armenians. Lyuda's a Russian, you can tell right away, and Marina speaks Azerbaijani wonderfully and she told them that she was an Azerbaijani. And I almost gave her away and doomed her. I'm glad that at least Marina came out of this all in good physical health . . . although her spirit was murdered . . . At some point I came to and saw Igor, Igor Agayev, my acquaintance, in that mob. He lives in the neighboring building. For some reason I remembered his name, maybe I sensed my defense in him. I called out to him in Russian, "Igor, help!" But he turned away and went into the bedroom. Just then they were taking Marina and Lyuda out of the bedroom. Igor said he knew Marina and Lyuda, that Marina in fact was Azerbaijani, and he took both of them to the neighbors. And the idea stole through me that maybe Igor had led them to our apartment, something like that, but if he was my friend, he was supposed to save me. Then they were striking me very hard--we have an Indian vase, a metal one, they were hitting me on the back with it and I blacked out--they took me out onto the balcony a second time to throw me out the window. They were already sure that I was dead because I didn't react at all to the new blows. Someone said, "She's already dead, let's throw her out." When they carried me out onto the balcony for the second time, when I was about to die the second time, I heard someone say in Azerbaijani: "Don't kill her, I know her, she's a teacher." I can still hear that voice ringing in my ears, but I can't remember whose voice it was. It wasn't Igor, because he speaks Azerbaijani with an accent: his mother is Russian and they speak Russian at home. He speaks Azerbaijani worse than our Marina does. I remember when they carried me in and threw me on the bed he came up to me, that person, and I having opened my eyes, saw and recognized that person, but immediately passed out cold. I had been beaten so much that I didn't have the strength to remember him. I only remember that this person was older and he had a high position. Unfortunately I can't remember anything more. What should I say about Igor? He didn't treat me badly. I had heard a lot about him, that he wasn't that good a person, that he sometimes drank too much. Once he boasted to me that he had served in Afghanistan. He knew that women usually like bravery in a man. Especially if a man was in Afghanistan, if he was wounded, then it's about eighty percent sure that he will be treated very sympathetically, with respect. Later I found out that he had served in Ufa, and was injured, but that's not in Afghanistan, of course. I found that all out later. Among the people who were in our apartment, my Karina also saw the Secretary of the Party organization. I don't know his last name, his first name is Najaf, he is an Armenian-born Azerbaijani. But later Karina wasn't so sure, she was no longer a hundred percent sure that it was he she saw, and she didn't want to endanger him. She said, "He was there," and a little while later, "Maybe they beat me so much that I am confusing him with someone else. No, it seems like it was he." I am sure it was he because when he came to see us the first time he said one thing, and the next time he said something entirely different. The investigators haven't summoned him yet. He came to see us in the Khimik boarding house where we were living at the time. He brought groceries and flowers, this was right before March 8th; he almost started crying, he was so upset to see our condition. I don't know if he was putting us on or not, but later, after we had told the investigator and they summoned him to the Procuracy, he said that he had been in Baku, he wasn't in Sumgait. The fact that he changed his testimony leads me to believe that Karina is right, that in fact it was he who was in our apartment. I don't know how the investigators are now treating him. At one point I wondered and asked, and was told that he had an alibi and was not in our apartment. Couldn't he have gone to Baku and arranged an alibi? I'm not ruling out that possibility. Ill now return to our apartment. Mamma had come to. You could say that she bought them off with the gold Father gave her when they were married: her wedding band and her watch were gold. She bought her own and her husband's lives with them. She gave the gold to a 14-year old boy. Vadim Vorobyev. A Russian boy, he speaks Azerbaijani perfectly. He's an orphan who was raised by his grandfather and who lives in Sumgait on Nizami Street. He goes to a special school, one for mentally handicapped children. But I'll say this--I'm a teacher all the same and in a matter of minutes I can form an opinion--that boy is not at all mentally handicapped. He's healthy, he can think just fine, and analyze, too . . . policemen should be so lucky. And he's cunning, too. After that he went home and tore all of the pictures out of his photo album. He beat Mamma and demanded gold, saying, "Lady, if you give us all the gold and money in your apartment we'll let you live." And Mamma told them where the gold was. He brought in the bag and opened it, shook out the contents, and everyone who was in the apartment jumped on it, started knocking each other over and taking the gold from one another. I'm surprised they didn't kill one another right then. Mamma was still in control of herself. She had been beaten up, her face was black and blue from the blows, and her eyes were filled with blood, and she ran into the other room. Father was lying there, tied up, with a gag in his mouth and a pillow over his face. There was a broken table on top of the pil- low. Mamma grabbed Father and he couldn't walk; like me, he was half dead, halfway into the other world. He couldn't comprehend anything, couldn't see, and was covered with black and blue. Mamma pulled the gag out of his mouth, it was some sort of cloth, I think it was a slipcover from an armchair. The bandits were still in our apartment, even in the room Mamma pulled Father out of, led him out of, carried him out of. We had two armchairs in that room, a small magazine table, a couch, a television, and a screen. Three people were standing next to that screen, and into their shirts, their pants, everywhere imaginable, they were shoving shot glasses and cups from the coffee service--Mamma saw them out of the corner of her eye. She said, "I was afraid to turn around, I just seized Father and started pulling him, but at the threshold I couldn't hold him up, he fell down, and I picked him up again and dragged him down the stairs to the neighbors'." Mamma remembered one of the criminals, the one who had watched her with his face half-turned toward her, out of one eye. She says, "I realized that my death would come from that person. I looked him in the eyes and he recoiled from fear and went stealing." Later they caught that scoundrel. Meanwhile, Mamma grabbed Father and left. I was alone. Igor had taken Marina away, Mamma and Father were gone, Karina was already outside, I didn't know what they were doing to her. I was left all alone, and at that moment . . . I became someone else, do you understand? Even though I knew that neither Mother and Father in the other room, nor Marina and Lyuda under the bed could save me, all the same I somehow managed to hold out. I went on fighting them, I bit someone, I remember, and I scratched another. But when I was left alone I realized what kind of people they were, the ones I had observed, the ones who beat Karina, what kind of people they were, the ones who beat me, that it was all unnecessary, that I was about to die and that all of that would die with me. At some point I took heart when I saw the young man from the next building. I didn't know his name, but we would greet one another when we met, we knew that we were from the same microdistrict. When I saw him I said, "Neighbor, is that you?" In so doing I placed myself in great danger. He realized that if I lived I would remember him. That's when he grabbed the axe. The axe that had been taken from my father. I automatically fell to my knees and raised my hands to take the blow of the axe, although at the time it would have been better if he had struck me in the head with the axe and put me out of my misery. When he started getting ready to wind back for the blow, someone came into the room. The newcomer had such an impact on everyone that my neighbor's axe froze in the air. Everyone stood at attention for this guy, like soldiers in the presence of a general. Everyone waited for his word: continue the atrocities or not. He said, "Enough, let's go to the third entryway." In the third entryway they killed Uncle Shurik, Aleksandr Gambarian. This confirms once again that they had prepared in advance. Almost all of them left with him, as they went picking up pillows, blankets, whatever they needed, whatever they found, all the way up to worn out slippers and one boot, someone else had already taken the other. Four people remained in the room, soldiers who didn't obey their general. They had to have come recently, because other faces had flashed in front of me over those 2 to 3 hours, but I had never seen those three. One of them, Kuliyev (I identified him later), a native of the Sisian District of Armenia, an Azerbaijani, had moved to Azerbaijan a year before. He told me in Armenian: "Sister, don't be afraid, I'll drive those three Azerbaijanis out of here." That's just what he said, "those Azerbaijanis," as though he himself were not Azerbaijani, but some other nationality, he said with such hatred, "I'll drive them out of here now, and you put your clothes on, and find a hammer and nails and nail the door shut, because they'll be coming back from Apartment 41." That's when I found out that they had gone to Apartment 41. Before that, the person in the Eskimo dogskin coat, the one who came in and whom they listened to, the "general," said that they were going to the third entryway. Kuliyev helped me get some clothes on, because l couldn't do it by myself. Marina's old fur coat was lying on the floor. He threw it over my shoulders, I was racked with shivers, and he asked where he could find nails and a hammer. He wanted to give them to me so that when he left I could nail the door shut. But the door was lying on the floor in the hall. I went out onto the balcony. There were broken windows, and flowers and dirt from flowerpots were scattered on the floor. It was impossible to find anything. He told me, "Well, fine, I won't leave you here. Would any of the neighbors let you in? They'll be back, they won't calm down, they know you're alive." He told me all this in Armenian. Then he returned to the others and said, "What are you waiting for? Leave!" They said, "Ah, you just want to chase us out of here and do it with her yourself. No, we want to do it to." He urged them on, but gently, not coarsely, because he was alone against them, although they were still just boys, not old enough to be drafted. He led them out of the room, and went down to the third floor with them himself, and said, "Leave. What's the mat- ter, aren't you men? Go fight with the men. What do you want of her?" And he came back upstairs. They wanted to come up after him and he realized that he couldn't hold them off forever. Then he asked me where he could hide me. I told him at the neighbors' on the fourth floor, Apartment 10, we were on really good terms with them. We knocked on the door, and he explained in Azerbaijani. The neighbor woman opened the door and immediately said, "I'm an Azerbaijani." He said, "I know. Let her sit at your place a while. Don't open the door to anyone, no one knows about this, I won't tell anyone. Let her stay at your place." She says, "Fine, have her come in." I went in. She cried a bit and gave me some stockings, I had gone entirely numb and was racked with nervous shudders. I burst into tears. Even though I was wearing Marina's old fur coat, it's a short one, a half-length, I was cold all the same. I asked, "Do you know where my family is, what happened to them?" She says, "No, I don't know anything. I'm afraid to go out of the apartment, now they're so wild that they don't look to see who's Azerbaijani and who's Armenian." Kuliyev left. Ten minutes later my neighbor says, "You know, Lyuda, I don't want to lose my life because of you, or my son and his wife. Go stay with someone else." During the butchery in our apartment one of the scum, a sadist, took my earring in his mouth--I had pearl earrings on--and ripped it out, tearing the earlobe. The other earring was still there. When I'm nervous I fix my hair constantly, and then, when I touched my ear, I noticed that I had one earring on. I took it out and gave it to her. She took the earring, but she led me out of the apartment. I went out and didn't know where to go. I heard someone going upstairs. I don't know who it was but assumed it was them. With tremendous difficulty I end up to our apartment, I wanted to die in my own home. I go into the apartment and hear that they are coming up to our place, to the fifth floor. I had to do something. I went into the bedroom where Marina and Lyuda had hidden and saw that the bed was overturned. Instead of hiding I squatted near some broken Christmas ornaments, found an unbroken one, and started sobbing. Then they came in. Someone said that there were still some things to take. I think that someone pushed me under the bed. I lay on the floor, and there were broken ornaments on it, under my head and legs. I got all cut up, but I lay there without moving. My heart was beating so hard it seemed the whole town could hear it. There were no lights on. Maybe that's what saved me. They were burning matches, and toward the end they brought in a candle. They started picking out the clothes that could still be worn. They took Father's sport jacket and a bedspread, the end of which was under my head. They pulled on the one end, and it felt like they were pulling my hair out. I almost cried out. And again I realized I wasn't getting out of there alive, and I started to strangle myself again. I took my throat in one hand, and pressed the other on my mouth, so as not to wheeze, so that I would die and they would only find me afterward. They were throwing the burned matches under the bed, and I got burned, but I withstood it. Something inside of me held on, someone's hand was protecting me to the end. I knew that I was going to die, but I didn't know how. I knew that if I survived I would walk out of that apartment, but if I found out that one of my family had died, I would die for sure, because I had never been so close to death and couldn't imagine how you could go on living without your mother or father, or without your sister. Marina, I thought, was still alive: she went to Lyuda's place or someone is hiding her. I tried to think that Igor wouldn't let them be killed. He served in Afghanistan, he should protect her. While I was strangling myself I said my good-byes to everyone. And then I thought, how could Marina survive alone. If they killed all of us, how would she live all by herself? There were six people in the room. They talked among themselves and smoked. One talked about his daughter, saying that there was no children's footwear in our apartment that he could take for his daughter. Another said that he liked the apartment--recently we had done a really good job fixing everything up--and that he would live there after everything was all over. They started to argue. A third one says, "How come you get it? I have four children, and there are three rooms here, that's just what I need. All these years I've been living in God-awful places." Another one says, "Neither of you gets it. We'll set fire to it and leave." Then someone said that Azerbaijanis live right next door, the fire could move over to their place. And they, to my good fortune, didn't set fire to the apartment, and left. Oh, yes, I just remembered. While they were raping me they repeated quite frequently, "Let the Armenian women have babies for us, Muslim babies, let them bear Azerbaijanis for the struggle against the Armenians." Then they said, "Those Muslims can carry on our holy cause. Heroes!" They repeated it very often. - - - reference for #008 - - - [1] _The Sumgait Tragedy; Pogroms against Armenians in Soviet Azerbaijan, Volume I, Eyewitness Accounts_, edited by Samuel Shahmuradian, forward by Yelena Bonner, 1990, published by Aristide D. Caratzas, NY, pages 118-145
How can one tell which prong of your basic chip is number 20? I realize there is a chunk of the chip missing so that one can orient it correctly. So using that hole as a guide, how can I count the prongs of the chip to find #20? Please help.
I am having trouble obtaining the specified standby current drain from a MC146818A Real Time Clock. Has anyone out there had some experience in doing this? The specs call for a few sequences to be met before standby mode is activated, and are a bit hard to decipher on that, but I thought that I had it worked out. However, with a 32kHz crystal the lowest current drain I can acheive at 3.7V Vcc is 150uA. This is three times the specified MAXIMUM under the conditions I am attempting to create. I have done the following things: 1) Made sure that RESET/ is asserted for Trlh after powerup, and AS is low during this time. 2) Made sure that there is a cycle on AS after the negation of RD/ or WR/ during which STBY/ was asserted. What am I doing wrong? Thanks very much,
][bozo posts GIFS to rec.moto] ]>he and his postmaster are also gonna get 500 copies of the post in their ]>mailboxes. ] ] Hey, it's a great picture. You can't fault his taste, only his ]technique. Chill out and educate instead of getting your panties in a ]bunch. ditto to you Dave. I'm using the picture as the bacground on my sun, and I haven't sent a single message to the guy. looks like you get to keep the panties. -- Joe Senner -- joe@Rider.Cactus.Org Austin, TX
As our local.religion.christian BBS group seems moribund, I'm posting here. On one of the Sundays just before Easter I went to church. The sermon was based on a story in the Book of Joshua. (The one about Joshua sending out spies to the land he was planning to take) What I particularly remember, because of having heard part of a CBC radio documentary on Bosnia, was that the Rahab (the woman who sheltered the spies) said that the people were "melting in fear." What with having heard that CBC radio documentary and knowing that the Muslims in Bosnia were losing the war, I felt uncomfortable. After all, the Serbs are driving non-Christians out. On the other hand, ministers do say that the Bible is opposed to the values held by our secular society. Anyhow members of that church are involved in out-of-country missionary work. Also, the pastor has talked of spiritual warfare and of bringing Christ to the nonreligious people of our area. The next Sunday, the sermon was about Joshua 6 (where the Israelites take Jericho and then proceed to massacre everybody there --- except for Rahab, who had sheltered the spies). With those reports about Bosnia in my mind, I felt uncomfortable about the minister saying that the massacre (the one in Joshua) was right. But what really bothered me was that, if I was going to try taking Christianity seriously, I shouldn't be so troubled about the reports of "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia. Certainly, my sympathies shouldn't be with the Moslims. Considering that the Bosnian Muslims are descendants of Christians who, under Turkish rule, converted to Islam could the Serbs be doing God's work?
Hi...I need some info on video card. I am looking a video card that can deliver a high quality picture. I need the card to display images (well for advertising company btw), so it must be rich with colors and the speed must be fast too. I am just wondering if somebody can advise me what to buy for such application, and possible the address of the vendor.
Or, if you've got some entreprenuerial (sp?) spirit, get a cheapy clear plastic box, mount the simm inside, and sell it as a 'Pet SIMM'! I'm sure there are *plenty* of suckers out there who would go for it!
Not exactly dumb, but who remebers the tachometer on the 69 or 70 Firebird bulging out of the _hood_ right in front of the driver. Neat place but I love to know what the elemnts did to its internals after a few years. Also, does the speedomete pointer on many US cars have to be 3 feet long?.
prb@access.digex.com (Pat) Pontificated: What I was getting at in my post is whether or not it might be possible to put enough brains on board future deep-space probes for them to automatically avoid such things as looking at the sun or going into an uncontrolled tumble. I heard once that the voyagers had a failsafe routine built in that essentially says "If you never hear from Earth again, here's what to do." This was a back up in the event a receiver burnt out but the probe could still send data (limited, but still some data). Since this would be a shutdown that may never be refunded for startup, if some type of cosmic BEM took out the probe, it might not be such a big loss. Obviously you can't plan for everything, but the most obvious things can be considered.
PLEASE: response directly to me (luoma@binah.cc.brandeis.edu) by email. IF there are a sufficient number of interesting responses, I will post a summary (on April 24 or 25). I have waded through the mass of SCSI-IDE posting, but I missed any answers to a question posted early on -- Has anyone (successfully) put both SCSI and IDE hard drives on the same system? I am particularly interested in having the SCSI as the _boot_ drive. For those who have managed this feat, I would appreciate a bit more information, such as what drives, which SCSI controller, and (if possible) what motherboard & BIOS (plus any other relevant info.).
excuse me for my ignorance. But I remember reading once that the Biblical tribe known as the Philistines still exists...they are the modern day Palestinians. Anyone out there with more info, please post it!!!
We tried to ship an X server once that only supported a 24bit TrueColor visual. The main problems we encountered were: 1) Clients written with logic like the following: if (DefaultDepth() != 1) /* Assume default depth is 8bit */ These clients need an 8bit deep visual in the root window to run correctly. 2) Other clients didn't even bother to do that much, and just outright assumed they had a *dynamic* visual class, with a dynamic colormap. XStoreColors doesn't work on cmaps associated with Static or TrueColor visual classes, but many clients don't bother to check, they just start throwing XStoreColor calls at you. Though both are clearly client error, this is the case with so many clients that it's easier for you to expose 8bit PseudoColor as a default root window visual, than it ever would be for all these client writers to change their clients to do the right thing. --
Say, you bought your Saturn at $13k, with a dealer profit of $2k. If the dealer profit is $1000, then you would only be paying $12k for the same car. So isn't that saving money? Moreover, if Saturn really does reduce the dealer profit margin by $1000, then their cars will be even better deals. Say, if the price of a Saturn was already $1000 below market average for the class of cars, then after they reduce the dealer profit, it would be $2000 below market average. It will: 1) Attract even more people to buy Saturns because it would SAVE THEM MONEY. 2) Force the competitors to lower their prices to survive. Now, not only will Saturn owners benefit from a lower dealer profit, even the buyers for other cars will pay less. Isn't that saving money?
Yes, long before Star Trek. Before Einstein, in fact. Vulcan as a planet inside Mercury was hypothesized to explain a perturbation of Mercury's orbit that could not be explained by the known planets. But Einstein's theory of relativity explained Mercury's motion, and analysis of Mercury's motion now shows there are _not_ any planets inside its orbit.
# # |> # |> |> |> First, my above statement doesnot say that "the existence of israeli citizens # |> |> |> in the WB revoke their right of life" but it says "the israeli occupation # |> |> |> of the WB revoke the right of life for some/most its citizens - basically # |> |> |> revokes the right of for its military men". Clearly, occupation is an # |> |> |> undeclared war; during war, attacks against military targets are fully legitimate. # |> # |> I'd like you to tell me, in your own words who the military are, wrt Israel then. # |> In uniform, or not? On duty, or off-duty? Soldier to be, or not? # |> (That is, since it's compulsory one might regard any Israeli as a # |> legit target using that definition) # # in uniform or not ? doesnot make a difference if the person is in army. # On duty, or off-duty? doesnot matter if the army man was on duty or on a # vacation week. # Soldier to be, or not? sure i meant only military men. Just trying to get this clear, so please bear with me. As far as I can tell, you're proposing the following rules of engagement between Israel and the Palestinean resistance. Please feel revise this preliminary draft as necessary: 1) Israeli military personnel are fair game at any time, in uniform or out, on duty or off. In practice, since any male or female Israeli of military age (18-?) may be off-duty military, all but young children are acceptable targets. Since the existence of Israel constitutes indication of hostile intent, no further provocation is required. 2) To avoid inpermissable violations of the rights of non-combatant Palestineans, Israeli forces must not engage Palestineans without positive identification as military personnel, clear indication of aggressive intent, and a clear field of fire. a) Positive identification may be assured by either checking for Palestinean military uniform, by posession of exclusively military armament (ie, T78 MBTs or MiG-29 aircraft), or self-identification (either verbal or documentary). Note that dual-use military/civilian weaponry such as hand grenades, AK-47 rifles, and RPG launchers do not constitute positive military identification and require closer inspection such as document checks. b) Aggressive intent (as distinct from merely 'hostile' intent, which is the normal condition) may be assured by not less than three rounds of incoming fire separated by intervals of not less than ten seconds between rounds. Note that a single burst of automatic-weapon fire counds as one round, as does a volley of rocket fire from more than one source. As noted above, dual-use weaponry may NOT be assumed to originate from military personnel, and thus do not justify armed response. c) A clear field of fire can be guaranteed by making a positive military identification of all personnel in the target area of the weapons to be used. Note that aggressive intent need not be proven for all possible targets. Thus, if IAF aircraft are attacked by a SAM crew it is not necessary to check the papers of each crew member so long as none are obviously civilians (as indicated, for instance, by the posession of uniquely civilian weaponry such as stones, axes, and Molotov coctails.) Since it is often difficult for IAF elements to land and make the necessary checks, ground forces should first screen prospective strike areas before AGM fire. For ACM purposes, a cockpit-to-cockpit pass within 5 meters is usually sufficient for this purpose, but may be repeated if necessary.
Does that mean that they're gonna bring back the Biscayne and Bel Air?
The first premise and the conclusion are not properly translated as identity statements, since the "is" in those statements is the "is" of predication rather than of identity. Instead, they should be translated using a predicate letter. Using "g" to designate God and "j" to designate Jesus, and the predicate letter "E" for the property of being eternal, the first premise is Eg and the conclusion is Ej. The second premise appears to contain an "is" of identity, in which case it can be properly symbolized as j = g. But your remark that "Jesus is a subset of God" suggests that strict identity is not desired here. If, however, the first premise means that all members making up the set God have the property of being eternal, the same conclusion follows.
Did the Russian spacecraft(s) on the ill-fated Phobos mission a few years ago send back any images of the Martian moon? If so, does anyone know if they're housed at an ftp site? Thanks.
From: MX%"Andy.Macrae@Corp.Sun.COM" 6-APR-1993 06:48:34.96 To: SRGXNBS CC: Subj: Re: I^2C bus and long haul serial (also Axlo Return-Path: <Andy.Macrae@Corp.Sun.COM> Received: from Sun.COM by GRV.GRACE.CRI.NZ (MX V3.1C) with SMTP; Tue, 06 Apr 1993 06:48:29 +1300 Received: from Corp.Sun.COM (lemay.Corp.Sun.COM) by Sun.COM (4.1/SMI-4.1) id AA24280; Mon, 5 Apr 93 11:48:08 PDT Received: from grendal.Corp.Sun.COM by Corp.Sun.COM (4.1/elliemay (corpmail1 inbound)) id AA25933; Mon, 5 Apr 93 11:48:07 PDT Received: by grendal.Corp.Sun.COM (4.1/SMI-4.1) id AA05710; Mon, 5 Apr 93 11:47:28 PDT Date: Mon, 5 Apr 93 11:47:28 PDT From: Andy.Macrae@Corp.Sun.COM (Andrew MacRae) Message-ID: <9304051847.AA05710@grendal.Corp.Sun.COM> To: srgxnbs@grace.cri.nz Subject: Re: I^2C bus and long haul serial (also Axlo CC: Andy.Macrae@Corp.Sun.COM content-length: 693 Bruce, For the latest information on Access.Bus call the Access.Bus Industry Group at (408) 991-3517. Also, Sun will be hosting the next meeting of the group on April 19th, here in Mountain View. For some reason I am not able to post to any newsgroups today, so please feel free to pass this information on yourself as you see fit.
I was wondering if anyone out there has had the same problem I am having with my Gateway 2000 486-33DX VL-Bus system with ATI Graphics Ultra Pro LB. When I have my computer in any resolution other than 800x600, everything is fine, but whenever I use it in 800x600 (Windows, AutoCAD, GIFs) the screen gets about 1 1/2 inches shorter. At the very top and very bottom of the screen there is about a 3/4" bar of black. The screen isn't cut off, it just squeezes everything into the smaller space and messes up the aspect ratio. While I can manually change the V-Size on the back, this is a pain in the ass, and it just shouldn't happen anyway. I've called Gateway numerous times and they haven't been able to help me at all. Two different times they sent me a new card, and both times the new card didn't work at all in my computer. They even tried to bill me for the first card because they didn't get it back in a couple of days, when they TOLD me over the phone that they would wait more than 2 weeks before billing my card. But their customer support is a different story... So, if anyone has had this same problem, please let me know if you know what to do. Hell, let me know if you don't have a solution, just so I know I'm not the only one with this problem. Thanks in advance. Jude M. Greer jmgree01@starbase.spd.louisville.edu
[After a small refresh Hasan got on the track again.] |> |> I get the impression Hasan realized he goofed and is now |> |> trying to drop the thread. Let him. It might save some |> |> miniscule portion of his sorry face. |> Not really. since i am a logical person who likes furthering himself |> from any "name calling", i started trashing any article that contains |> such abuses without responding to, and sometimes not even reading articles |> written by those who acquired such bad habits from bad company! |> |> Ah, but in my followup on the subject (which you, by the way, never bothered |> responding to..) there was no name-calling. Hence the assumption. |> Do you feel more up to it now, so that we might have an answer? |> Or, to refresh your memory, does the human right issue in the area |> apply to Palestinians only? Also, do you claim there is such a thing as |> forfeiting a human right? If that's possible, then explain to the rest of |> us how there can exist any such thing? |> |> Use your logic, and convince us! This is your golden chance! |> Jonas Flygare, well , ok. let's see what Master of Wisdom, Mr. Jonas Flygare, wrote that can be wisdomely responded to : Are you calling names, or giving me a title? If the first, read your paragraph above, if not I accept the title, in order to let you get into the um, well, debate again. |> [hasan] |> |> [flax] |> |> |> [hasan] |> |> |> In case you didNOT know, Palestineans were there for 18 months. |> |> |> and they are coming back |> |> |> when you agree to give Palestineans their HUMAN-RIGHTS. |> |> |> Afterall, human rights areNOT negotiable. |> |> |> Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't the right to one's life _also_ |> |> |> a 'human right'?? Or does it only apply to palestinians? |> |> No. it is EVERYBODY's right. However, when a killer kills, then he is giving |> |> up -willingly or unwillingly - his life's right to the society. |> |> the society represented by the goverment would exercise its duty by |> |> depriving the killer off his life's right. |> So then it's all right for Israel to kill the people who kill Israelis? |> The old 'eye for an eye' thinking? Funny, I thought modern legal systems |> were made to counter exactly that. So what do you expect me to tell you to tell you, Master of Wsidom, ^^^ ------------------------------------------------------------------ If you insist on giving me names/titles I did not ask for you could at least spell them correctly. /sigh. when you are intentionally neglecting the MOST important fact that the whole israeli presence in the occupied territories is ILLEGITIMATE, and hence ALL their actions, their courts, their laws are illegitimate on the ground of occupied territories. No, I am _not_ neglecting that, I'm merely asking you whether the existance of Israeli citicens in the WB or in Gaza invalidates those individuals right to live, a (as you so eloquently put it) human right. We can get back to the question of which law should be used in the territories later. Also, you have not adressed my question if the israelis also have human rights. What do you expect me to tell you, Master of Wisdom, when I did explain my point in the post, that you "responded to". The point is that since Israel is occupying then it is automatically depriving itself from some of its rights to the Occupied Palestineans, which is exactly similar the automatic deprivation of a killer from his right of life to the society. If a state can deprive all it's citizens of human rights by its actions, then tell me why _any_ human living today should have any rights at all? |> |> In conjugtion with the above, when a group of people occupies others |> |> territories and rule them by force, then this group would be -willingly or |> |> unwillingly- deprived from some of its rights. |> Such as the right to live? That's nice. The swedish government is a group |> of people that rule me by force. Does that give me the right to kill |> them? Do you consider yourself that you have posed a worthy question here ? Worthy or not, I was just applying your logic to a related problem. Am I to assume you admit it wouldn't hold? |> |> What kind of rights and how much would be deprived is another issue? |> |> The answer is to be found in a certain system such as International law, |> |> US law, Israeli law ,... |> And now it's very convenient to start using the legal system to prove a |> point.. Excuse me while I throw up. ok, Master of Wisdom is throwing up. You people stay away from the screen while he is doing it ! Oh did you too watch that comedy where they pipe water through the telephone? I'll let you in on a secret... It's not for real.. Take my word for it. |> |> It seems that the US law -represented by US State dept in this case- |> |> is looking to the other way around when violence occurs in occupied territories. |> |> Anyway, as for Hamas, then obviously they turned to the islamic system. |> And which system do you propose we use to solve the ME problem? The question is NOT which system would solve the ME problem. Why ? because any system can solve it. The laws of minister Sharon says kick Palestineans out of here (all palestine). I asked for which system should be used, that will preserve human rights for all people involved. I assumed that was obvious, but I won't repeat that mistake. Now that I have straightened that out, I'm eagerly awaiting your reply. Joseph Weitz (administrator responsible for Jewish colonization) said it best when writing in his diary in 1940: "Between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both peoples together in this country.... We shall not achieve our goal ^^^ ^^^ of being an independent people with the Arabs in this small country. The only solution is a Palestine, at least Western Palestine (west of the Jordan river) without Arabs.... And there is no other way than to transfer the Arabs from here to the neighbouring countries, to transfer all of them; not one village, not one tribe, should be left.... Only after this transfer will the country be able to absorb the millions of our own brethren. There is no other way out." DAVAR, 29 September, 1967 ("Courtesy" of Marc Afifi) Just a question: If we are to disregard the rather obvious references to getting Israel out of ME one way or the other in both PLO covenant and HAMAS charter (that's the english translations, if you have other information I'd be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to a _private_ paper even older? I'm not going to get into the question if he wrote the above, but it's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have their share of fanatics. Guess what..? Those are not the people that will make any lasting peace in the region. Ever. It's those who are willing to make a tabula rasa and start over, and willing to give in order to get something back. "We" and "our" either refers to Zionists or Jews (i donot know which). Well, i can give you an answer, you Master of Wisdom, I will NOT suggest the imperialist israeli system for solving the ME problem ! I think that is fair enough . No, that is _not_ an answer, since I asked for a system that could solve the problem. You said any could be used, then you provided a contradiction. Guess where that takes your logic? To never-never land. "The greatest problem of Zionism is Arab children". -Rabbi Shoham. Oh, and by the way, let me add that these cute quotes you put at the end are a real bummer, when I try giving your posts any credit. --
Did it ever accrue to you to just call INTEL'S 800 number and ask?
I would e-mail this to you, but my mailserver doesn't recognize you or something. Anyway, the worst pitcher on the Yanks. If you mean currently on the team, then I have to go with Scott "I'm a schizophrenic...No, I'm NOT!" Kamienicki. Sure, occasionally the guy can pitch well for 5 or 6 innings, but then he starts to go insane. A sure sign that he's losing his stuff (and his mind) is when he starts to stalk around the mound between batters and yell at himself. The worst all-time Yanks pitcher? Gotta go with Ed "New York? I have to pitch in [gulp] New York?" Whitson. 'Nuff said! --I'm outta here like Vladimir! -Alan Sepinwall XVIII
Archive-name: x-faq/part4 Last-modified: 1993/04/04 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 80)! Where can I get an X-based plotting program? These usually are available from uucp sites such as uunet or other sites as marked; please consult the archie server to find more recent versions. gnuplot X (xplot), PostScript and a bunch of other drivers. export.lcs.mit.edu [and elsewhere]:contrib/gnuplot3.1.tar.Z gl_plot X output only [?] comp.sources.unix/volume18 graph+ yallara.cs.rmit.oz.au:/pub/graph+.tar.Z [131.170.24.42] comp.sources.unix/volume8 pdraw,drawplot 2D and 3D X,PS scam.berkeley.edu:/src/local/3dplot.tar.Z [128.32.138.1] scam.berkeley.edu:/src/local/contour.tar.Z [128.32.138.1] scam.berkeley.edu:/src/local/drawplot.tar.Z [128.32.138.1] uunet:~ftp/contrib/drawplot.tar.Z xgraph plot, zoom. Outputs PS or HPGL. shambhala.berkeley.edu:/pub/xgraph-11.tar.Z [128.32.132.54] sun1.ruf.uni-freiburg.de:X11/contrib/xgraph-11.tar.Z [132.230.1.1] nisc.jvnc.net:pub/xgraph-11.tar.Z [128.121.50.7] comp.sources.x/volume3 or many other sites ACE/gr (formerly xvgr and xmgr) XY plotting tools ftp.ccalmr.ogi.edu [129.95.72.34] XView version: /CCALMR/pub/acegr/xvgr-2.09.tar.Z Motif version: /CCALMR/pub/acegr/xmgr-2.09.tar.Z [mirrored on export in /contrib/acegr] XGobi An interactive dynamic scatter-plotting tool from Bellcore lib.stat.cmu.edu: general/xgobi* [log in as statlib with your email as the password; or send email to statlib@lib.stat.cmu.edu containing the one-line message "send xgobi from general"] Information from: Debby Swayne, dfs@bellcore.com. Robot a scientific XView-based graph plotting and data analysis tool ftp.astro.psu.edu:pub/astrod/robotx0.46.tar.Z [128.118.147.28] plotmtv a multi-purpose 2D/3D plotter tanqueray.berkeley.edu:/pub/Plotmtv1.3.1.tar.Z [2/91. Thanks in part to: emv@ox.com (Ed Vielmetti); geoff@Veritas.COM (Geoffrey Leach); Paul A. Scowen (uk1@spacsun.rice.edu); black@beno.CSS.GOV (Mike Black)] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 81) Where can I get an X-based spreadsheet? A version of "sc" for X and which supports Lotus files is available from vernam.cs.uwm.edu in xspread2.0.tar.Z. It also includes graphing functions. Information: soft-eng@cs.uwm.edu. The GNU package OLEO is available in prep.ai.mit.edu:pub/gnu/oleo-1.2.2.tar.Z; it can generate PostScript renditions of spreadsheets. Also: Several of the below are part of integrated office-productivity tools which may also include word-processing, email, conferencing, image processing, and drawing/painting, among other features. Vendor Product Contact Information ------ ------- ------------------- Access Technology 20/20 508-655-9191 Informix WingZ 800-331-1763 Quality Software Products Q-Calc/eXclaim 800-628-3999 (CA:213-410-0303) Unipress Q-Calc 201-985-8000 Uniplex Uniplex 214-717-0068, 800-356-8063 Digital DECdecision 1-800-DIGITAL Applix Aster*x 508-870-0300, 1-800-8APPLIX. AIS XESS 919-942-7801, info@ais.com BBN Software Products BBN/Slate 617-873-5000 slate-offer@bbn.com Elsid Software Systems Ripcam 613-228-9468 SAS by the SAS Institute now has a spreadsheet module; the X version is available on the current popular RISC platforms. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 82) Where can I get X-based project-management software? Vendor Product Contact Information ------ ------- ------------------- Productivity Solutions Ultra Planner 617-237-1600 Quality Software Products MasterPlan Version, 310-410-0303 sales@qsp.com Digital Tools, Inc. AutoPLAN 408-366-6920, 800-755-0065 NASA COMPASS 404-542-3265, service@cossack.cosmic.uga.edu GEC-Marconi Software Systems GECOMO Plus 703-648-1551 GEC-Marconi Software Systems SIZE Plus 703-648-1551 TEI, Inc VUE 408-985-7100 Mantix Cascade 703-506-8833 Advanced Management Solutions Schedule Publisher 800-397-6829 Auburn University ?? ?? [thanks to Pete Phillips (pete@egh-qc.co.uk); 7/92] [thanks to Atul Chhabra (atul@nynexst.com); 10/92] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 83) Where can I get an X-based PostScript previewer? Ghostscript is distributed by the Free Software Foundation (617-876-3296) and includes a PostScript interpreter and a library of graphics primitives. Version 2.5.2 is now available; the major site is prep.ai.mit.edu. [11/92] GSPreview (by the Computing Laboratory of the University of Kent at Canterbury) is an X user interface (WCL-based) to the Ghostscript 2.4[.1] interpreter [5/92]. The source is available for anonymous ftp from export.lcs.mit.edu as gspreview.2.0.tar.Z. Ghostview (by Tim Theisen, tim@cs.wisc.edu) is full-function user interface for GhostScript. Check ftp.cs.wisc.edu or prep.ai.mit.edu for /pub/ghostview-1.4.1.tar.Z [1/93]. There are also several executables available on ftp.cs.wisc.edu:/pub/X/ghostview-exe for various architectures. Also: ScriptWorks is Harlequin's software package for previewing and printing PostScript(R) descriptions of text and graphics images; previewers for X are available. For information call +44-223-872522 or send email to scriptworks-request@harlqn.co.uk. Image Network's Xps supports the full PostScript language and renders in color, grayscale, or monochrome. Fonts displayed are anti-aliased. Info: Image Network, +1 415 967 0542. Digital's dxpsview runs on UWS 2.1 and 2.2. Sun's pageview runs with the X11/NeWS server. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 84) Where can I get an X-based GKS package? The latest freely-available XGKS can be obtained from xgks-request@unidata.ucar.edu; this is a 2c implementation derived from the X11R4 contrib XGKS from IBM and the University of Illinois. The release is on unidata.ucar.edu [128.117.140.3] as pub/xgks.tar.Z. [12/90] In addition, Grafpak-GKS is available from Advanced Technology Center (714-583-9119). GKSUL is available from gks@ulowell.edu (ULowell CS department). It is a 2b implementation which includes drivers for a variety of devices. It can be passed an X window ID to use. The package includes both C and Fortran bindings. [11/90; from dsrand@mitre.org and from stew@hanauma.stanford.edu] An XgksWidget is produced by Neil Bowers (neilb@leeds.dcs; neilb@dcs.leeds.ac.uk); the latest [10/91] conforms with the new version of XGKS (2.4). It is available on export in contrib/xgks-widget.tar.Z. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 85) Where can I get an X-based PEX package? The first official release of PEX is with X11R5; fix-22 brings the Sample Implementation server to version 5.1. The final PEX 5.1 Protocol specification is now available via anonymous ftp to export.lcs.mit.edu (18.24.0.12), in the directory /pub/DOCS/PEX/. Changes made from the Public Review draft are listed in the file "5.1P_changes" in that directory. [9/92] The final PEXlib 5.1 document is on export in pub/DOCS/PEXlib. [11/92] There is now available from the University of Illinois an implementation of the PEX 4.0 specification called UIPEX. It contains a "near- complete" implementation of PHiGS and PHiGS PLUS. The file pub/uipex/uipex.tar.Z is on a.cs.uiuc.edu (128.174.252.1); the porting platform was an RT running 4.3. Questions and comments can to go uipex@cs.uiuc.edu. In addition, the PEXt toolkit by Rich Thomson (rthomson@dsd.es.com) is available on export as PEXt.tar.Z; it includes a PEX widget making it easier to include PEX in Xt-based programs. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 86) Where can I get an X-based TeX or DVI previewer? The xtex previewer for TeX files is available from a number of archive sites, including uunet; the current version is usually on ftp.cs.colorado.edu (128.138.204.31) in SeeTeX-2.18.5.tar.Z; pre-converted fonts are also on that machine. The distribution all includes "mftobdf" which converts PK, GF, and PXL fonts to BDF format, where they can then be compiled for use by your local X server. The xdvi dvi-previewer is fairly comprehensive and easy to use. It is also available from a number of sites, including uunet and export.lcs.mit.edu; current version is patchlevel 16 [12/92]. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 87) Where can I get an X-based troff previewer? X11R4 has two previewers for device-independent troff: the supported client xditview, and the contributed-but-well-maintained xtroff. An earlier version of xtroff also appeared on the R3 contributed source. xditview is also in the R5 distribution. In addition, the xman client can be used to preview troff documents which use the -man macros (i.e. man pages). If psroff is used its output can be viewed with a PostScript previewer. In addition: xproof, an X previewer for ditroff has been contributed by Marvin Solomon (solomon@cs.wisc.edu); version 3.5 is available on export in contrib/xproof*. [8/90] Elan Computer Group (CA: 415-964-2200) produces eroff, a modified troff implementation, and Elan/Express, an X11 eroff previewer. SoftQuad (416-963-8337; USA only 800-387-2777, mail@sq.uu.net or mail@sq.com) offers SoftQuad Publishing Software, including a substantially- rewritten troff formatter, a better intermediate language with backwards compatibility, and an X11[R3,R4] previewer. (This is the package adopted by AT&T's own MIS department, and used in and re-sold by many parts of AT&T). [information from Ian Darwin, SoftQuad (ian@sq.com) 3/90] Image Network (1-800-TOXROFF; CA: 415-967-0542) offers the Xroff package, which includes a fine modified troff implementation and a set of X11-based page previewers. (This is the package OEM'ed by several hardware vendors.) [mostly courtesy moraes@cs.toronto.edu (Mark Moraes)] [2/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 88)! Where can I get a WYSIWYG interface builder? A new release of the DIRT interface builder by Richard Hesketh works with X11R5 and includes some support for the Motif widget set. From the README: This builder allows the interactive creation and rapid prototyping of X user interfaces using the X Toolkit and a number of Widget Sets. Dirt generates "Wc - Widget Creation" resource files and this distribution also includes the Widget Creation Library (version 1.06, with the exception of the demos and Mri/Ari source code) with the kind permission of its author David E. Smyth. Check dirt.README, dirt.A2.0.tar.Z, and dirt.PS.Z on export.lcs.mit.edu. The InterViews 3.0.1 C++ toolkit contains a WYSIWIG interface builder called ibuild. ibuild generates code for an InterViews application complete with Imakefile and an X-resource file. Documentation is /pub/papers/ibuild.ps on interviews.stanford.edu (36.22.0.175). Quest Windows's (408-496-1900) ObjectViews C++ package includes an interactive building tool. Druid (Demonstrational Rapid User Interface Development) runs on SPARC machines using OSF/Motif 1.0; it is intended eventually to be a full UIMS but apparently now has only support for creating the presentation components, for which it generates C/UIL code. Info: Singh G, Kok CH, Ngan TY, "Druid: A System for Demonstrational Rapid User Interface Development". Proc. ACM SIGGRAPH Symp on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST'90). ACM, NY, 1990, pp:167-177. The BYO interface builder is implemented in tcl. Also: In addition, these commercial products (unsorted) are available in final or prerelease form [the * following the product name indicates that the product is known to allow the designer to specify for each widget whether a particular resource is hard-coded or written to an application defaults file, for at least one form of output]. Some are much more than user-interface tools; some are full user interface management systems; information on most is not up-to-date: Product Name Look/Feel Code Output Vendor HP Interface Motif 1.1 C(Xm) HP/Visual Edge Architect/ UIMX OPEN LOOK Express OPEN LOOK C(Xol+ helper lib) AT&T / Visual Edge UIMX 2.0 * Motif 1.1 C(Xm + helper code) Visual Edge 514-332-6430 & distributors VUIT 2.0 Motif 1.1 C/UIL[r/w] DEC (1-800-DIGITAL) X-Designer 1.1 * Motif 1.1 C(Xm); C/UIL Imperial Software Technology, Ltd (+44 734 587055) sales@ist.co.uk XFaceMaker2 (XFM2) * Motif 1.0 C;C/script (C-like procedural language);C/UIL NSL (33 1 43 36 77 50) requests@nsl.fr Builder Xcessory 2.0 * Motif 1.1 C(Xm); C/UIL[r/w] ICS Ada (617-621-0060) info@ics.com XBUILD 1.1 * Motif 1.0 C(Xm); C/UIL Nixdorf (617-864-0066) xbuild@nixdorf.com iXBUILD Motif 1.1 C(Xm); C/UIL iXOS Software karl@ixos.uucp 089/461005-69 TeleUSE 2.1 * Motif 1.1.5 C(Xm); C/UIL[r/w] Telesoft (619-457-2700) gui_info@telesoft.com ezX 3.2 Motif 1.1 C(Xm +helper lib);C/UIL;Ada Sunrise (401-847-7868) info@sunrise.com Snapix Motif C/Xm ADNT +33 1 3956 5333 OpenWindows Developers OPEN LOOK GIL [-> C/XView] Sun Guide 3.0 GIL [-> C++/XView] GIL [-> C/OLIT] GIL [-> C/PostScript for TNT] ExoCode/SXM Motif C(Xm) Expert Object ExoCode/Plus OPEN LOOK XView 708-676-5555 TAE+ Xw;Motif C(Xw,Xm); C/TCL (TAE Control Language, like UIL[needs helper library]); VAX Fortran; Ada; C++ Nasa Goddard (301) 286-6034 MOB, XSculptor Motif; OpenLook C/Xm,UIL; C/Xol Kovi 408-982-3840 PSM PM, MSW 3.0, C/UIL Lancorp Motif 1.1.2,Mac Pty Ltd. +61 3 629 4833 Fax: 629 1296 (Australia) MOTIFATION Motif 1.0|1.1.2 C(Xm) AKA EDV +49 (0) 234/33397-0 +49 (0) 234/33397-40 fax UIB Open Look/Motif C++(OI) ParcPlace +1 303-678-4626 Look for magazine reviews for more complete comparisons of meta-file formats, documentation, real ease-of-use, etc; Unix World and Unix Review often carry articles. In addition, Neuron Data (1 415 321-4488) makes Open Interface, a window-system-independent object toolkit which supports interfaces which are or resemble (supersets of) Mac, Windows, and Motif and Open Look; the package includes an interface builder. In addition, the GRAMMI builder supports the development of Ada/X applications using its own set of objects which are planned to have a Motif look. GRAMMI is written in Ada and generates Ada specs and stub bodies. (1-800-GRAMMI-1). In addition, these non-WYSIWYG but related products may help for goals of rapid prototyping of the application interface: WCL: the Widget Creation Library. Basically describes the widget hierarchy and actions in a resources file; available from fine archive servers everywhere, including devvax.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.1.143) in pub/. Wcl provides a very thin layer over Xt without any internal tweaking. Version 2.5 is current [3/93]. WINTERP: an Xlisp-based Motif toolkit allows for interpretive programming. The copy on the R4 tape is outdated; get a copy off export or email to winterp-source%hplnpm@hplabs.hp.com. The Serpent UIMS permits the building of user-interfaces without specific knowledge of coding but with an understanding of attributes being set on a particular [Motif] widget. Beta Release 1.2 is available from ftp.sei.cmu.edu (128.237.1.13) and can be found in /pub/serpent. Serpent is also available on export.lcs.mit.edu (18.24.0.11) in /contrib/serpent. Email questions can go to serpent@sei.cmu.edu. A commercial version of Serpent is available as "Agora" from ASET, 221 Woodhaven Drive, Pittsburgh, PA 15228. Garnet is a Common Lisp-based GUI toolkit. Information is available from garnet@cs.cmu.edu. MetaCard is a hypertext/Rapid Application Development environment similar to Apple/Claris Corporation's HyperCard (info@metacard.com). MetaCard is available via anonymous FTP from ftp.metacard.com, csn.org, or 128.138.213.21. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 89) Where can I find X tools callable from shell scripts? I want to have a shell script pop up menus and yes/no dialog boxes if the user is running X. Several tools in the R3 contrib/ area were developed to satisfy these needs: yorn pops up a yes/no box, xmessage displays a string, etc. There are several versions of these tools; few, if any, have made it to the R4 contrib/ area, though they may still be available on various archive sites. In addition, Richard Hesketh (rlh2@ukc.ac.uk) has posted the xmenu package to comp.sources.x ("v08i008: xmenu") for 1-of-n choices. [7/90] Two versions of XPrompt have been posted to comp.sources.x, the latter being an unauthorized rewrite. [R. Forsman (thoth@reef.cis.ufl.edu), 1/91] There is a version of XMenu available from comp.sources.x; it is being worked on and will likely be re-released. xp-1.1.tar.Z, xpick-1.0.tar.Z and xzap-1.0.tar.Z on export's contrib/ are tools by Gerry.Tomlinson@newcastle.ac.UK which act as X versions of the simple display and choice-making tools in K&P. [4/92] xtpanel lets the user build a panel containing interactive objects such as buttons, sliders, text fields, etc., either from the command line or using a simple scripting language. It is available for anonymous ftp from hanauma.Stanford.EDU (36.51.0.16) as pub/X/xtpanel.tar.Z and may also be found in the alt.sources archives. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 90) Where can I get an X-based debugger? xdbx, an X interface to the dbx debugger, is available via ftp from export. The current [1/91] version is 2.1 patchlevel 2. An X interface to gdb called xxgdb is more like xdbx 2.1.2. It is part of comp.sources.x volume 11 [2/91]; xxgdb-1.06.tar.Z is on export. mxgdb is a Motif interface to gdb by Jim Tsillas (jtsillas@bubba.ma30.bull.com); version 1.1.5 was released 1/93. UPS is a source-level debugger which runs under the X11 and SunView window systems on Sun and DEC platforms. It is available from export (18.24.0.11) as contrib/ups-2.45.tar.Z (also ups-2.45-to-2.45.2.patch.Z) and unix.hensa.ac.uk (129.12.21.7) in /pub/misc/unix/ups (or try mail to archive@unix.hensa.ac.uk). [10/92] Unofficial fixes by Rod Armstrong (rod@sj.ate.slb.com) are on unix.hensa.ac.uk in /misc/unix/ups/contrib/rod@sj.ate.slb.com. Also: MIPS produces a highly-customizable (WCL-based) Visual Debugger. You should be able to use Sun's dbxtool with its X11/NeWS server. The CodeCenter (617-498-3000) source-level debugger, available on most major platforms, includes an X-based interface. AT&T offers the eXamine Graphical Interface, an X11 interface to dbx and C++ dbx for Sun3 and Sun4 and sdb and sdb++ for 386 and 3B2 platforms. Call 1-508-960-1997 or contact examine@mvuxi.att.com for more information. Solbourne (+1 303-678-4626) offers PDB, its X-based debugger for C, C++ and Fortran. PDB uses the OI toolkit and runs in either Open Look or Motif mode. SCO (info@sco.com) offers dbXtra as part of several development systems. Lucid's Energize Programming System, a tightly integrated development environment for C and C++ programs, incorporates a graphical user interface on top of an extended version of gdb. Info: lucid-info@lucid.com, or (800) 223-9322. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 91)! How can I "tee" an X program identically to several displays? There are several protocol multiplexer tools which provide for the simultaneous display of X clients on any number of machines. XMX (an X Protocol Multiplexor) is available from wilma.cs.brown.edu (128.148.33.66) as pub/xmx.tar.Z It works independently of the server and does not affect the application being shared; it was developed for use in the electronic classroom. XTV is a conference program which can be used to duplicate the "chalkboard" on several displays. Release 1 is available on the X11R5 contrib tapes; a more recent version is on ftp.cs.odu.edu as pub/wahab/XTV.r2.tar.Z. SHX from Michael Altenhofen of Digital Equipment GmbH CEC Karlsruhe also does this; it is a "WYSIWIS" (What You See Is What I See) package in the context of a computer-based learning/training tool to provide online help from remote tutors but is also useful for general window sharing. Information: shX@nestvx.enet.dec.com. SHX can be found on export and gatekeeper.dec.com:/pub/X11/contrib/shX.tar.Z, crl.dec.com:/pub/X11/contrib/shX.tar.Z Modifications to SHX for color mapping and private color allocation by Mark J. Handley (M.Handley@cs.ucl.ac.uk) are on cs.ucl.ac.uk in car/shX.car.tar.Z. XTrap is implemented as a server/library extension and can be used to record and then replay an x session. It is available as: gatekeeper.dec.com pub/X11/contrib/XTrap_v31.tar.Z export.lcs.mit.edu contrib/XTrap_v31.tar.Z wscrawl can be used as a "multi-person paint program". It's available on sax.stanford.edu as wscrawl.shar.Z. Shdr implements a simple shared whiteboard, without a chalk-passing mechanism. It's available on parcftp.xerox.com as pub/europarc/shdr.tar.Z. SketchPad 1.0 (3/93) is a distributed interactive graphical editor particularly designed for sketching. Sources have been posted to alt.sources and are available from ftp.igd.fhg.de (192.44.32.1) in ~ftp/incoming/sketchpad. The NESTOR project is described in "Upgrading A Window System For Tutoring Functions", Michael Altenhofen et al., the proceedings of the EXUG Conference 11/90. Also of use: Hewlett-Packard Co. has a commercial product, "HP SharedX" which works under HP-UX currently on their 300, 400, and 700 series workstations and their HP 700/RX X Stations. Machines receiving shared windows can be any X server. HP SharedX consists of a server extensions and a Motif based user interface process. Contact your local HP sales rep. for more information. IBM offers a commercial product. Sun offers multi-user confering software called ShowMe. InSoft (Mechanicsburg, PA, USA) offers multi-user confering software called Communique. [Thanks in part to scott@spectra.com (Tim Scott), 5/91, and to Peter Cigehn (peter@lulea.trab.se), 8/92 ] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 92) TOPIC: BUILDING THE X DISTRIBUTION [topic needs updating to R5] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 93) What's a good source of information on configuring the X build? This FAQ includes information on a number of "gotchas" that can bite you on particular system. However, the best source of general information on building the X11 release is found in the Release Notes. The file is bundled separately from the rest of the release, so if it's become separated from your sources you can FTP another copy separately: the file RELNOTES.[ms,PS,TXT] at the top of the distribution. The file RELNOTES is also available from the xstuff mail server. In addition, O'Reilly & Associates's Volume 8 on X Administration includes information on configuring and building X. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 94) Why doesn't my Sun with a cg6 work with R5? Apparently gcc is the problem; it seems to produce fine code for all Sun displays except for the cgsix. The new sunGX.o distributed with fix-07 may fix the problem (note: not known to work on Solaris). ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 95) Why doesn't my Sun with SunOS 4.1 know about _dlsym, etc.? If you get errors with _dlsym _dlopen _dlclose undefined, link with libdl.a. Add "-ldl" to your and eventually your site.def. You may want to surround it with "-Bstatic -ldl -Bdynamic" if you add it to the EXTRA_LIBRARIES variable, since "syslibs" get added after EXTRA_LIBRARIES on the eventual compilation command; otherwise you may not have a shared libdl. (Or compile the stubs shared.) [thanks to Joe Backo (joe.backo@East.Sun.COM), 12/91] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 96) What is this strange problem building X clients on SunOS 4.1.2? In SunOS 4.1.2 Sun fixed a shared-library bug in ld which conflicts with the way X11R4 builds the shared Xmu library, causing these symbols to be undefined when building some X11 clients: _get_wmShellWidgetClass _get_applicationShellWidgetClass Compiling "-Bstatic -lXmu -Bdynamic" appears to work. To solve the problem if you are using OpenWindows 3.0 (X11R4-based Xt), please contact your local Sun office and request the following patches: Patch i.d. Description 100512-02 4.1.x OpenWindows 3.0 libXt Jumbo patch 100573-03 4.1.x OpenWindows 3.0 undefined symbols when using shared libXmu [Greg Earle, earle@Sun.COM; 7/92] A source patch for use with the MIT X11R4 libraries was developed by Conrad Kimball (cek@sdc.boeing.com); it retrofits into R4 some fixes made in R5 to get around this problem. The patch is on export in [1/93] contrib/X11R4_sunos4.1.2_patch_version3.Z ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 97) Why can't gcc compile X11R4 on my SPARC? I used gcc to compile the whole distribution, but I get several segmentation faults when running X. Note first that gcc on RISC machines does not necessarily result in any performance increase; it certainly is not as noticeable as it is on the 680x0 or VAX platforms. Here is the problem: gcc and cc use incompatible methods of passing structures as arguments and returning them as function values, so when gcc-compiled parts of X are linked with Sun-supplied functions that pass or return structs, run-time errors occur. Affected programs include rgb and the server. This is from the GCC manual: On the Sparc, GNU CC uses an incompatible calling convention for structures. It passes them by including their contents in the argument list, whereas the standard compiler passes them effectively by reference. This really ought to be fixed, but such calling conventions are not yet supported in GNU CC, so it isn't straightforward to fix it. The convention for structure returning is also incompatible, and `-fpcc-struct-return' does not help. You can duck the problem either by using cc throughout or by using it for just the routines which cause incompatibilities; the problem cannot be solved with compilation flags. Files which need to be compiled using cc include: server/os/4.2bsd/oscolor.c rgb/rgb.c In addition, several of the "inet_" functions use structs as args or return values: clients/xhost/xhost.c clients/xauth/gethost.c. Calls to inet_addr in /lib/CLX/socket.c and lib/X/XConnDis.c are possibly harmless as they don't involve structs. [collected by bashford@scripps.edu (Don Bashford); 8/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 98) What are these I/O errors running X built with gcc? When I try to run xinit or the Xsun server I get the error "Getting interface configuration: Operation not supported on socket. Fatal server bug! no screens found." Running the gcc fixincludes script apparently didn't work. You can do this simple test: #include <sys/ioctl.h> SIOCGIFCONF Run that through cc -E and gcc -E. The last line of output is the piece of interest; it should be identical (modulo irrelevant differences like whitespace). If the gcc version has 'x' where the cc version has 'i', your fixincludes run didn't work for some reason or other; go back to your gcc sources and run `fixincludes`; then rebuild the X distribution. If they are identical, try running a make clean in mit/server and rebuilding, just to make sure everything gets compiled with the proper include files. [courtesy der Mouse, mouse@LARRY.MCRCIM.MCGILL.EDU; 9/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 99) What are these problems compiling X11R4 on the older Sun3? In mit/server/ddx/sun/sunCG3C.c, we have found "missing" defines for CG3AC_MONOLEN, CG3BC_MONOLEN, CG3AC_ENBLEN, CG3BC_ENBLEN. What should these be? The R4 Errata list distributed after X11R4 mentions that you can add these lines to the file on older SunOS versions (e.g. 3.5) to compile: #define CG3AC_MONOLEN (128*1024) #define CG3AC_ENBLEN CG3AC_MONOLEN #define CG3BC_MONOLEN CG3AC_MONOLEN #define CG3BC_ENBLEN CG3AC_MONOLEN However, the Sun3 should not actually ever have the CG3 device, and so references to it can be removed from mit/server/ddx/sun/sunInit.c and the Imakefile. [11/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 100) What are these problems compiling the X server on SunOS 4.1.1? The file <sundev/cg6reg.h> isn't being found. Sun omitted <sundev/cg6reg.h> from SunOS 4.1.1. Remove the #include from sunCG6C.c and replace it with the line #define CG6_VADDR_COLOR 0x70016000 The file has changed from earlier versions of SunOS and should not be copied from another distribution. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 101) What are these problems using R4 shared libraries on SunOS 4? All of the executables that I try to run have the following results: ld.so: libXmu.so.4: not found or even: ld.so: call to undefined procedure __GetHostname from 0xf776a96c If you are building with shared libraries on a Sun, remember that you need to run "ldconfig" as root after installing the shared libraries (if you've installed X on a file-server, run it on the server's clients, too). While building and installing the distribution, you need to be careful to avoid linking against any existing X shared libraries you might have (e.g. those distributed with OpenWindows). You should make sure you do not have LD_LIBRARY_PATH set in your environment during the build or the installation. If you are going to keep xterm and xload as setuid programs, please note that the shared libraries must be installed in /usr/lib, /usr/local/lib, or /usr/5lib for these programs to work (or else those programs must be linked statically). [courtesy MIT X Consortium] Note also that the program mkfontdir is run as part of the build; it attempts, however, to use the shared libraries before they have been installed. You can avoid the errors by building mkfontdir statically (pass -Bstatic to most C compilers). ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 102) Can OLIT programs run with R5 Xt? (_XtQString undefined) This is a bug in the OLIT. _XtQString was an external symbol that existed in X11R4 (upon which OW 3.0's libXt is based). It wasn't documented and was removed in X11R5 (MIT's guarantee of upward compatibility between the R4 and R5 libraries only applied to the documented interface). A workaround is to temporarily set your LD_LIBRARY_PATH to point to the X11R4 or OpenWindows Xt library that you linked the program against. [10/92; from Barry Margolin (barmar@think.com); 3/93 from Jeff Francis (jpf@heliocentric.com)] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 103) How do I get around the SunOS 4.1 security hole? There is a security problem with certain R4 clients (xterm and xload) running under SunOS 4.1 that have been installed setuid root and are using shared libraries; to avoid the problem, do one of these: 1) make the program non-setuid. You should consult your system administrator concerning protection of resources (e.g. ptys and /dev/kmem) used by these programs, to make sure that you do not create additional security problems at your site. 2) relink the programs statically (using -Bstatic). 3) install the libraries before linking and link with absolute paths to the libraries. [from rws@expo.lcs.mit.edu (Bob Scheifler), 12/90] The R5 version of xterm does this automatically by rebuilding xterm against the newly-installed libraries when xterm is being installed; this prevents an suid program from being built with libraries specified relatively. Note that this may cause an inconvenience when doing the installation from NFS-mounted disks. Xload has been rewritten to avoid the problem. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 104) How do I get around the frame-buffer security hole? On many systems the frame-buffer is unsecured by default; this permits anyone who can log into your workstation to peek at your windowing session by accessing the frame-buffer directly, or, as less of a privacy issue but perhaps more annoying, to [accidentally] start up a second X session on your console display. Check the man page for fbtab(5). [Thanks to Art Mulder (art@cs.ualberta.ca); 2/93.] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 105) TOPIC: BUILDING X PROGRAMS ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 106) What is Imake? Imake is not a replacement for the make program; instead, it is a makefile-generator that takes advantages of the include-file and macro- processing capabilities of the C preprocessor cpp to generate makefiles suitable for building software on a particular system. Although it is not specific to X, the X release uses it to help solve a number of the configuration issues that arise in making such a large system widely portable. Imake has a fairly steep learning curve, in part because the process by which the system-specific configuration files, system-independent configuration files, and individual Imakefiles are melded to produce a Makefile is not obvious. There have been several different versions of imake; the R3, R4, and R5 versions are different. You can obtain information on imake from these sources: - the R4 and R5 release notes and imake man page include information on using Imake to build X - the R4 and R5 file mit/config/README also contains useful information - on the R4 tapes, contrib/doc/imake/imake.tex is Mark Moraes' R3/R4 guide to imake. - the R5 mit/doc/config/usenixws/paper.ms contains a paper by Jim Fulton on an early version of Imake - Paul Dubois (dubois@primate.wisc.edu) has written a useful explanation of how Imake works and how to use it in configuring X for non- supported systems; the document is available from ftp.primate.wisc.edu in the directory ~ftp/pub/imake-stuff; look for config-X11R4.ms (troff) and config-X11R4.ps (PostScript). Some supplemental appendices are nearby. [7/91: document version is now 1.06] These imake papers are available by email; mail a message body of "send imake-stuff help" to almanac@primate.wisc.edu. - see "System Administration - Imake: Friend of Foe?" by Dinah McNutt in the November 1991 issue of SunExpert. - German readers should expect in June 1992 an article "Das Meta-Make / I make, you make / Schwerelos" by Rainer Klute in "iX Multiuser-Multitasking-Magazin", directed at application programmers needing to write Imakefiles. An English-language derivative of this article is in The X Journal, issue 2:1. - The O'Reilly X Resource issue #2 contains Paul Davey's article on demystifying Imake. - Alain Brossard's working document full of tips on Imake is in sasun1.epfl.ch:pub/imakefile.1.Z. [1/91;12/91;5/92;8/92] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 107) Where can I get imake? Versions are distributed with the R4 and R5 releases. An earlier version is distributed with the X11R3 release; some third-party toolkits redistribute versions of imake along with their own implementations of the template and configuration files. There are no real standards for such configuration files, although most *current* contributed software expects the templates distributed with X11R5. export contains the R5 distribution unpacked, so you can pick up imake without picking up the entire distribution. A stand-alone version of Imake, but one stemming from X11R5, is in ftp.germany.eu.net:pub/X11/misc/imake/imake-pure.tar.Z (192.76.144.75). ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 108) I have a program with an Imakefile but no Makefile. What to do? If you have R4 or R5 installed on your system, run "xmkmf". This is a script which runs imake for you with the correct arguments. The output is a Makefile configured for your system and based on the Imakefile. Then run make, which will use that new Makefile to compile the program. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 109) Why can't I link to the Xlib shape routines? When I try to compile certain programs, I get the following link error: Undefined: _XShapeQueryExtension _XShapeCombineMask These routines are actually part of the Shape Extension to X (SHAPE) which was introduced in the MIT X11R4 distribution and allows non-rectangular windows. Like the other sample server extensions, the shape extension will only run on a server which supports it. Pre-X11R4 servers, as well as many vendor-supplied servers, do not support the shape extension, in which case they will display rectangular windows anyway. In order to use the shape extension, you must link to the library libXext.a. In the X11R4 distribution, this library and the associated includes will be in the mit/extensions directory. If you do not have these files, do not despair: many freeware programs which use the shape extension can also be compiled without it by removing the -DSHAPE define from the Makefile; you can probably do this and compile successfully against your older vendor-supplied X libraries. [from John B. Melby, melby%yk.fujitsu.co.jp@uunet.uu.net, 3/91] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 110) What are these problems with "_XtInherit not found" on the Sun? When I run a X program that I wrote on a SunOS 4.0.3 or 4.1 machine I get the error "ld.so: symbol not found _XtInherit". What you are seeing is a side-effect of a kludge in the R4 libXt.a to get Sun shared libraries working. Apparently, you can't share a function that is both called and compared, as _XtInherit is. This was handled by putting _XtInherit in the same file as a function that is always used, thereby guaranteeing that it would be loaded -- that is, in Initialize.c, where XtToolkitInitialize() and XtInitialize() reside. These routines would normally be called. You are probably seeing this error because your program is not a normal Xt-based program and does not call XtToolkitInitialize() anywhere. 1) it may be a program that uses Xt functions but never opens a connection to the X server. [OSF/Motif's 1.1.0 UIL had this problem; it called XtMalloc() and other Xt functions.] The solution is to add the call to your program; the function does not have to be executed, just linked in. 2) alternatively, your program doesn't need any Xt functions and is correct in not calling XtToolkitInitialize() -- it may be an Xlib or XView program. In this case, you can remove -lXt from your link command. It should not be necessary to link the shared libraries statically, although this will certainly solve the problem. [from Jordan Hayes (now jordan@MooreNet.COM) and Danny Backx (db@sunbim.be); 11/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 111) Why can't I compile my R3 Xaw contrib programs under the new X? I have a program that worked well under X11R3. When I try to link it under the current version of X, I get this message: Undefined: _XtScrollBarSetThumb _XtTextSetInsertionPoint _XtTextReplace There were several name changes in the Athena widget set (in addition to the header files moving into <X11/Xaw/>); these are mentioned in the R4 release notes. In this case, these functions are not really Xt functions but are part of the Xaw text widget and so have been renamed from Xt* to Xaw*. [10/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 112) TOPIC: PROGRAMMING PROBLEMS AND PUZZLES ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 113) Why doesn't my program get the keystrokes I select for (sic)? The window manager controls how the input focus is transferred from one window to another. In order to get keystrokes, your program must ask the window manager for the input focus. To do this, you must set up what are called "hints" for the window manager. If your applications is Xlib-based, you can use something like the following: XWMHints wmhints; ... wmhints.flags = InputHint; wmhints.input = True; XSetWMHints(dpy, window, &wmhints) If your application is based on the Xt Intrinsics, you can set the XtNinput resource to be True (as you probably want to in any case); if you don't have source, you can start up the application with the resource '*input:True'. Certain window managers, notably dxwm and olwm, are very picky about having this done. If you are using Sun's OpenWindows olwm, you can also add this resource to your defaults file to use clients that aren't ICCCM-compliant. OpenWindows.FocusLenience: true [mostly courtesy Dave Lemke of NCD and Stuart Marks of Sun] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 114) How do I figure out what window manager is running? You can't reliably tell; whatever mechanism you could use could be spoofed in any case. For most cases, you shouldn't care which window manager is running, so long as you do things in an ICCCM-conformant manner. There are some cases in which particular window managers are known to do things wrong; checking for particular hints placed on the window by the window manager so that you can sidestep the problem may be appropriate in these cases. Alternatively, it may be appropriate to determine which window manager is running in order to take advantage of specific *added* features (such as olwm's push-pin menus) in order to give your program *added* functionality. Beware of usurping the window manager's functions by providing that functionality even when it is missing; this surely leads to future compatibility problems. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 115) Is there a skeleton X program available? There is no general framework such as the TransSkel program for the Macintosh which handles lots of the odds and ends and overhead of development under a window system and which can be used as a platform for additional development. In X, the problem is typically solved by using an interactive application builder tool or by using cut&paste on existing X applications. Good applications which you might look to manipulate when you want to "test just this one little thing" include contrib/clients/xskel, a simple R4 program that puts up a window and allows sketching in it and offers a starting point for quick hacks, the Xaw examples in the examples/ directory in the R3 and R4 distributions, and the Xlib "Hello World" example in the R3 doc/HelloWorld and R4 doc/tutorials/HelloWorld; an updated version of this program which uses R4 Xlib calls and current ICCCM conventions was posted in 2/90 to comp.windows.x by Glenn Widener of Tektronix. [3/90] In addition, a sample Xt program (for Xaw or Xm) by Rainer Klute showing how to open multiple displays and how to catch a broken display connection is available on export.lcs.mit.edu in contrib/mdisp.tar.Z. [4/92] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 116) Why does XtGetValues not work for me (sic)? The XtGetValues interface for retrieving resources from a widget is sensitive to the type of variable. Your code may be doing something like this: { Arg args[3]; int i; int sensitive; /* oops; wrong data type */ i=0; XtSetArg (args[i], XtNsensitive, &sensitive); i++; XtGetValues(widget, args, i ); ... } But XtNsensitive is a Boolean, which on most machines is a single byte; declaring the variable "sensitive" as Boolean works properly. This problem comes up often when using particular toolkits that redefine the Xt types Dimension and Position; code that assumes they are int will have similar problems if those types are actually short. In general: you are safe if you use the actual type of the resource, as it appears in the widget's man page. [11/90] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 117) Why don't XtConfigureWidget/XtResizeWidget/XtMoveWidget work? You're probably trying to use these functions from application code. They should be used only internally to widgets; these functions are for a parent widget to change the geometry of its children. Other promising functions, XtMakeGeometryRequest() and XtMakeResizeRequest(), are also for use only by widgets, in this case by a child to request a change from its parent. The only way for your application to request a geometry change for a widget is to issue an XtSetValues call setting some of the geometry resources. Although this will result in the widget-internal functions' being called, your application code must use the standard XtSetValues interface or risk the widgets' data becoming corrupted. [The Xlib calls XMoveWindow() and XResizeWindow() should similarly be avoided; they shouldn't be used to change XtNx, XtNy, XtNwidth, or XtNheight.] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 118) Why isn't there an XtReparentWidget call like XReparentWindow? Although there are various details of the current implementation of the Xt internals which make reparenting difficult, the major reason that no such call exists is that it remains undefined what the set of resources for the "new" widget should be. Resources are typically set based on the location in the instance hierarchy; what resources should change if the instance moves? What should happen to the widget's children? And by the time such semantics are defined, there would probably be little advantage over destroying the old widget and creating a new widget in the correct location with the desired resources, as setting the resources correctly is the majority of work in creating a new widget. Note that reparenting is possible in the OI toolkit. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- David B. Lewis faq%craft@uunet.uu.net "Just the FAQs, ma'am." -- Joe Friday
Dorin, of all the criticism of my post expressed on t.p.m., this one I accept. I regret that aspect of my post. It is my hope that the occupation will end (and the accompanying loss of life) but I believe that stiff resistance can help to achieve that end. Despite what some have said on t.p.m., I think that there is a point when losses are unacceptable. The strategy drove U.S. troops out of Lebanon, at least.
Can anyone help me? I am having a problem displaying images greater than 32768 bytes from a Decwindows program running on a Vax 6310, and displaying on a Sparc IPC running Openwindows 3.0 and dni. The program works fine with Openwindows 2.0. The code segment which fails is given below, the program simply crashes out with an Xlib I/O error at the XPutImage() call. XImage *ximage; ximage = XCreateImage(myDisplay, DefaultVisual(myDisplay, myScreen), ddepth, ZPixmap, 0, image, xwid, ywid, 8, 0); XPutImage(myDisplay, myWindow, myGC, ximage, 0, 0, xpos, ypos, xwid, ywid); -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
That's one. Any others? Then they should have used a different advert. I'm both. I've made some $4k worth of PC products purchasing decisions for one company I'm affiliated with in the past 6 months alone. (In a delicious bit of irony, an interesting fraction went to suppliers that I suspect got my mailing address from these people.) More is in the pipeline right now. If they wanted to discuss these sorts of things, upfront is the way to do it. And who issues that "VIP Code"? (That policy implementation in the running for this week's "silly twit" award.) BTW - It turns out that I have several VIP codes. Here's the one I'm using for these sorts of things: "6". (If you want one, send me mail and I'll put you in touch with the folks who do the application interview; if you qualify....) -andy
:Because of some contract, IBM is not allowed to sell its :486 chips to third parties, so these chips are unlikely to become :available in any non-IBM machines. I saw in this months PC or PC World an ad for computers using IBM's 486SLC. So I don't think IBM is restricted in selling their chips, at least not anymore. A clock-tripled 486, even without coprocessor would be great, especially with 16k on-board cache. Make it 386 pin-compatible, and you have the chip upgrade that dreams are made of :-)
It's made by Rohm. (as is all BAxxx parts). Call 714-855-2131 and ask if you can get a sample (it's only like a $2 part).
What did you have to go and bring THAT up for? Now they're going to say that Israel is stealing the RAIN, too....
Shades of the Edsel! They had pushbuttons in the steering wheel hub that controlled the auto tranny. It was very disconcerting to shift into reverse when turning a corner and the wires shorted.
Get Xarchie 2.0 instead.
As far as I can see, one of the big differences between Davidians and Christians is in who they follow. I have sometimes tried to put myself in the feet of one of Jesus's disciples. Basically, they gave up a lot --- career, possibly family, and well, a whole bunch, to follow Jesus. So what is the difference? It is quite plain. Jesus was good and David Koresh was not. The problem is, I think, is that we try to legislate what is good and what is bad in terms of principles. For instance, there are thousands of laws in the U.S. governing what is legal and what is not. Often, it is hard to bring people to justice, because it is not possible to find a legal way to do it. If only we could trust judges to be just, then we could tell them to administer justice fairly, and justice would be followed. But since judges don't always get it right, we have a complicated system involving precedent and bunches of other stuff which attempt to make the imperfect (the justice of man) into something perfect. But what I hear about the justice system in the U.S. tells me that quite the opposite is true. There is also a problem that we tend to judge the presentation more than the material being presented. So we might consider a ranting Christian to be bad, but an eloquent person from another religion to be good. This goes along with the American desire to protect the Constitution at all costs, even if it allows people to do bad things. I think that it is the message that is important. If a man is presenting a false message, even if he is ever ever so mild mannered, then that man is performing a tremendous disservice. I know that I am rambling here. I guess that what I am trying to say is that we shouldn't be looking for principles that tell us why the Davidians got it wrong. It is not wrong to follow and worship a person. But it is important to choose the right person. It is simple. Choose Jesus, and you got it right. Choose anyone else, and you got it wrong. Why? Because Jesus is the begotten son of God, and nobody else is. Jesus was without sin, and nobody else was.
This design will work but I don't think it can take easily take advantage of expose event redraw optimization; that is, the whole window will be redrawn, not just the area with the new item.
I purchased a Super Voyager VLB 33Mhz board from Washburn & Company a month ago. I don't have the mailing address-- Clyde Washburn advertises regularly in PC Week. He can also be reached via CompuServe. The phone number is 1-800-836-8027. I think Washburn has very competitive prices compared to other AMI distributers,plus I liked the fact he's a EE that knows what he's talking about concerning hardware, and he can be easily reached via CompuServe for non critcle questions, and is very informative to his customers over the phone.
I might suggest giving the management some more mumble time by asking the very leading question (in two or three parts) What are your long term expectations of space market, what projects specifically are they funding by internal funds and at what levels and what competition do you expect in this area. (This last point is always worth hitting upper management with "gently" if you want them to think and as hard as you can if you have a good case that there really is competion)
Osinski): years. city Are you one of those people who were born when Istanbul was called Konstantinopolis? I don't think so! If those people use it because they are used to do so, then I understand. But open any map today (except a few that try to be political) you will see that the name of the city is printed as Istanbul. So, don't try to give any arguments to using Konstantinopolis except to cause some flames, to make some political statement. -- Tankut Atan tankut@iastate.edu
davem@bnr.ca (Dave Mielke) writes, I am extremely uncomfortable with this way of phrasing it. God's love is unconditional, unqualified, unfathomable. We are capable of rejecting God's love but He never fails to love us. These verses do not show that God's love is qualified but rather that He is opposed to evil. I am uncomfortable with the tract in general because there seems to be an innappropriate emphasis on Hell. God deserves our love and worship because of who He is. I do not like the idea of frightening people into accepting Christ. I see evangelism as combining a way of living that shows God's love with putting into words and explaining that love. Preaching the Gospel without living the Gospel is no better than being a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. Here's a question: How many of you are Christians because you are afraid of going to Hell? How many are responding to God's love?
I have a hard time understanding this attitude. If the gospels are the least bit accurate, then there can be little doubt that Jesus belived hell was a reality. As a teacher, what would be the wise and loving thing to do if people in your audience were headed there? To warn them! It would, however, be rather cruel and/or sadistic to believe that such a place exists and then remain quiet about it. The only scenario I can envision in which dimished respect would be justified is if Jesus knew there was no such place as hell, and spoke about it anyway, just to scare people. Unless you would accuse Jesus of this, I would encourage you to reconsider what a loving response is when you perceive someone to be in danger.
Of course, I'd still recommend that Michael read _True and Reasonable_ by Douglas Jacoby. Joe Fisher
Mr. Salah, why are you such a homicidal racist? Do you feel this same hatred towards Christans, or is it only Jews? Are you from a family of racists? Did you learn this racism in your home? Or are you a self-made bigot? How does one become such a racist? I wonder what you think your racism will accomplish. Are you under the impression that your racism will help bring peace in the mid- east? I would like to know your thoughts on this.
While previous Volvos have been essentially very fast tractors, the 3,4 and 8 series are far from 'agricultural' in design or execution (how many FWD tractors have you seen?). You state this like it is a bad thing. :^) (remember, car companies use ad agencies - they don't do their own ads!) Is this true? I know that they had done joint ventures with Renault, but I haven't heard about their subsumption into Renault - does this mean that the French Government now owns Volvo? - anyway, Renault makes some very nice cars, they just don't sell 'em in N. America! Here! Here!
Henrik (?), Your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. I'm not going to spend time to review with you the recent history of Cyprus. If you are really interested, I can provide you with a number of references on the issue. Just send me EMail for that. Relax! You're swinging fists into open air... I was *agreeing* with you, assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state! You may not be very much used to it, to be agreed with - that is, but take it more easily. !:-) No, Henrik, believe me: You don't hope that. Was that after or before one French plane changed its route to avoid inspection??? -- Onur Yalcin oyalcin@iastate.edu
Well, I'd say you're mostly right, but for different reasons. (BTW, as of a couple years ago, the most stolen bikes in Orange County and SF were 750 GSX's and Ninjas). Probably the biggest reason BMWs aren't ripped off is that most people who buy BMWs will only deal with the actual BMW dealer, or mail- order types. Most of these can have their inventory checked fairly easily by law-enforcement types, and their mark-up is usually sufficient to keep them honest about acquiring parts. For Harleys and rice-rockets, you've got 2 different situations. There is a HUGE aftermarket in Harley parts, so a bike can be parted out fairly easily. Ditto the non-sport Japanese bikes, but the prices on the parts for these are not as high, comparatively. For the 'rockets', anytime a bike goes down, the plastic is usually cracked, and is expensive to replace. It's fairly easy, then, for a disreputable shop to take a fairing from a stolen bike, slap it on a bike in for repair, repaint it, and make a tidy profit. The other parts, more traceable, can be used, or discarded if they are too traceable. Mike
I have written a program and I want to market it. I would like certain degree of protection, since my main custmers are individuals and not the cooperations. I know laser hole burning method, and hardware key method, however, my software is going to cost only $15.00, so I can not afford that. Also, at this low price I can not afford people make too many copy of my software. Well, I guess say upto %20 illigal copying is ok by me. However, I do not want someone to get a copy of PCTools and copy my software. Off course, I never meant to forbid the true hackers from copying, since they can develope a better program anyway. With highest regards, Babak Sehari.
Well, it looks like the folks in soc.religion.islam have loosened up a bit and are discussing this topic as well as the banking/interest topic. A few books on the subject have also been mentioned in addition to the one you mentioned. These may be hard to find, but I think I may take a stab at it out of curiosity. I know the one film I saw on this subject was pretty weak and the only two quotes I have seen which were used to show science in the Koran (which I posted here) were also pretty vague. I suspect that these books will extrapolate an awful lot on the quotes they have. At least one poster on the Islam channel seems to have some misgivings about the practice of using the Koran to decide what is good science. I wonder if Islam has ever come up with the equivalent of the Christians "Creation Science" on any topic. It would be interesting to find a history of scientific interpretations of the Koran, to see if anyone used the Koran to support earlier science which has since been discarded. It is all too easy to look at science as it exists today and then "interpret" passages to match those findings. People do similar things with the sayings of Nostradamus all the time.
Archive-name: x-faq/part3 Last-modified: 1993/04/04 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 58)! Where can I get patches to X11R5? The release of new public patches by the MIT X Consortium is announced in the comp.windows.x.announce newsgroup. Patches themselves are available via ftp from export and from other sites from which X11 is available. They are now also distributed through the newsgroup comp.sources.x. Some source re-sellers may be including patches in their source distributions of X11. People without ftp access can use the xstuff mail server. It now has 23 patches for X11R5 [3/93]. Send to xstuff@expo.lcs.mit.edu the Subject line send fixes # where # is the name of the patch and is usually just the number of the patch. Here are a few complications: 1) fix 5 is in four parts; you need to request "5a", "5b", "5c" and "5d" separately 2) the file sunGX.uu, which was part of an earlier patch, was re-released with patch 7 [note: the file doesn't work with Solaris] 3) fix 8 is in two parts: "8a" and "8b" 4) fix 13 is in three parts: "13a", "13b", and "13c" 5) fix 16 is in two parts: "16a" and "16b" 6) fix 18 replaces the R5fix-test1 for the X Test Suite, which previously was optional 7) fix 19 also needs PEXlib.tar.Z, which you can obtain from xstuff by asking for "PEXlib.uu.[1234]". 8) fix 22 is in 9 parts, "22a" through "22i" ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 59) What is the xstuff mail-archive? The xstuff server is a mail-response program. That means that you mail it a request, and it mails back the response. Any of the four possible commands must be the first word on a line. The xstuff server reads your entire message before it does anything, so you can have several different commands in a single message (unless you ask for help). The xstuff server treats the "Subject:" header line just like any other line of the message. The archives are organized into a series of directories and subdirectories. Each directory has an index, and each subdirectory has an index. The top-level index gives you an overview of what is in the subdirectories, and the index for each subdirectory tells you what is in it. 1) The command "help" or "send help" causes the server to send you a more detailed version of this help file. 2) if your message contains a line whose first word is "index", then the server will send you the top-level index of the contents of the archive. If there are other words on that line that match the name of subdirectories, then the indexes for those subdirectories are sent instead of the top-level index. For example, you can say "send index fixes" (or "index fixes"). A message that requests an index cannot request data. 3) if your message contains a line whose first word is "send", then the xstuff server will send you the item(s) named on the rest of the line. To name an item, you give its directory and its name. For example send fixes 1 4 8a 8b 9 You may issue multiple send requests. The xstuff server contains many safeguards to ensure that it is not monopolized by people asking for large amounts of data. The mailer is set up so that it will send no more than a fixed amount of data each day. If the work queue contains more requests than the day's quota, then the unsent files will not be processed until the next day. Whenever the mailer is run to send its day's quota, it sends the requests out shortest-first. 4) Some mailers produce mail headers that are unusable for extracting return addresses. If you use such a mailer, you won't get any response. If you happen to know an explicit path, you can include a line like path foo%bar.bitnet@mitvma.mit.edu or path bar!foo!frotz in the body of your message, and the daemon will use it. The xstuff server itself can be reached at xstuff@expo.lcs.mit.edu. If your mailer deals in "!" notation, try sending to {someplace}!mit-eddie!expo.lcs.mit.edu!xstuff. [based on information from the MIT X Consortium, 8/89, 4/90.] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 60)! Where can I get X11R4 (source and binaries)? Integrated Computer Solutions, Inc., ships X11R4 on half-inch, quarter-inch, and TK50 formats. Call 617-621-0060 for ordering information. The Free Software Foundation (617-876-3296) sells X11R4 on half-inch tapes and on QIC-24 cartridges. Yaser Doleh (doleh@math-cs.kent.EDU; P.O. Box 1301, Kent, OH 44240) is making X11R4 available on HP format tapes, 16 track, and Sun cartridges. [2/90] European sites can obtain a free X11R4 distribution from Jamie Watson, who may be reached at chx400!pan!jw or jw@pan.uu.ch. [10/90] Non Standard Logics (+33 (1) 43 36 77 50; requests@nsl.fr) makes source available. IXI Limited (+44 223 462 131) is selling X11R4 source on quarter-inch cartridge formats and on 5.25" and 3.5" floppy, with other formats available on request. [IXI, 2/90] Virtual Technologies (703-430-9247) provides the entire X11R4 compressed source release on a single QIC-24 quarter-inch cartridge and also on 1.2meg or 1.44 meg floppies upon request. [Conor Cahill (cpcahil@virtech.uu.net) 2/90] Young Minds (714-335-1350) makes the R4 and GNU distributions available on a full-text-indexed CD-ROM. [Note that some distributions are media-only and do not include docs.] X11R4 is ftp-able from export.lcs.mit.edu; these sites are preferable, though, and are more direct: Machine Internet FTP Location Name Address Directory -------- ------- -------- ------------- (1) West USA gatekeeper.dec.com 16.1.0.2 pub/X11/R4 Central USA mordred.cs.purdue.edu 128.10.2.2 pub/X11/R4 (2) Central USA giza.cis.ohio-state.edu 128.146.8.61 pub/X.V11R4 Southeast USA uunet.uu.net 192.48.96.2 X/R4 (3) Northeast USA crl.dec.com 192.58.206.2 pub/X11/R4 (4) UK Janet src.doc.ic.ac.uk 129.31.81.36 X.V11R4 UK niftp uk.ac.ic.doc.src <XV11R4> (5) Australia munnari.oz.au 128.250.1.21 X.V11/R4 The giza.cis.ohio-state.edu site, in particular, is known to have much of the contrib stuff that can be found on export. The release is available to DEC Easynet sites as CRL::"/pub/X11/R4". Sites in Australia may contact this address: ftp.Adelaide.EDU.AU [129.127.40.3] and check the directory pub/X/R4. The machine shadows export and archives comp.sources.x. (Mark Prior, mrp@ucs.adelaide.edu.au, 5/90) Note: a much more complete list is distributed as part of the introductory postings to comp.sources.x. A set of X11R4 binaries built by Tom Roell (roell@informatik.tu-muenchen.de) for the 386/ix will available from export.lcs.mit.edu in /contrib and in /pub/i386/X11R4 from 131.159.8.35 in Europe. Stephen Hite (shite@sinkhole.unf.edu) can also distribute to folks without ftp facilities via disks sent SASE; contact him for USmail and shipping details. [12/90] In addition, the binaries are available via uucp from szebra [1-408-739-1520, TB+ (PEP); ogin:nuucp sword:nuucp] in /usr2/xbbs/bbs/x. In addition, the source is on zok in /usrX/i386.R4server/. [2/91] In addition, if you are in the US, the latest SVR4 binary (April 15), patches, and fonts are available on piggy.ucsb.edu (128.111.72.50) in the directory /pub/X386, same filenames as above. (Please use after 6pm Pacific, as these are large files.) [5/91] A set of HP 9000/800 binaries is available on hpcvaaz.cv.hp.com (15.255.72.15) as ~ftp/pub/MitX11R4/libs.x800.Z. [2/91] A set of X11R4 binaries for the NeXT 2.x have been made available by Howie Kaye on cunixf.cc.columbia.edu A set of binaries by John Coolidge (coolidge@cs.uiuc.edu) for the Mac running A/UX 2.0 is available from wuarchive.wustl.edu in the file (/archive/systems/aux/X11R4/Xupdate2.tar.Z). Also in X11R4/diffs is a set of patches for making X11R4 with shared libraries with mkshlib. A complete distribution of SCO X11R4 binaries by Baruch Cochavy (blue@techunix.technion.ac.il) can be found on uunet. The server is Roell's X386 1.1b, compiled for ET4000 based SVGA boards. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 61) Where can I get OSF/Motif? You can obtain either OSF/Motif source or binaries from a number of vendors. Motif 1.2.2 source is now available; it is based on X11R5. Motif 1.1 is based on the R4.18 Intrinsics and is currently [7/92] at 1.1.5. An OSF/Motif source license must be obtained from OSF before source can be obtained from the Open Software Foundation or any value-added vendor for any version. Call the Direct Channels Desk at OSF at 617-621-7300 for ordering information. Various hardware vendors produce developer's toolkits of binaries, header files, and documentation; check your hardware vendor, particularly if that vendor is an OSF member. In addition, independent binary vendors produce Motif toolkits for machines for which Motif is not supported by a vendor; the kits include varied levels of bug-fixing and support for shared libraries and are based on widely divergent version of Motif: Quest (408-988-8880) sells kits for Suns, as well; IXI (+44 223 462 131) offers kits for Sun3 and Sun4. NSL (+33 (1) 43 36 77 50; requests@nsl.fr) offers kits for the Sun 3 and Sun 4. Bluestone Consulting makes a kit for Sun systems. ICS (617-62-0060) makes several binary kits, notably for Sun, DEC. HP and DEC have announced support for Motif on Sun systems. Unipalm (+44-954-211-797) currently offers for Sun systems a Motif Development Kit including X11R4 and based on Motif 1.1.2. The US distributor is Expert Object Corp (708-926-8500). BIM ships Motif 1.1 binaries for Suns. Shared library support is included. Contact Alain Vermeiren (av@sunbim.be) or Danny Backx (db@sunbim.be) at +32(2)759.59.25 (Fax : +32(2)759.47.95) (Belgium). SILOGIC (+33 61.57.95.95) ships Motif 1.2 and Motif 1.1 on Sun machines. S.I. Systems offers Motif 1.2 for Solaris 2.1; info: 1-800-755-8649 in USA and Canada. Metro Link Inc. (305-970-7353, sales@metrolink.com; in Europe contact ADNT, (33 1) 3956 5333, UniVision (UK) Ltd. (44) 628 82 22 81) ships an implementation of X11R4 and Motif 1.1.2 (including a shared-library implementation of libXm.a) for the 386/486 Unix market. Motif 1.1.2 is also available for Sun Sparc based workstations. It has also announced Motif 1.2 for Solaris systems. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 62) Does Motif work with X11R4? X11R5? Motif 1.2 is based on X11R5. Motif 1.1, available in source form from OSF as of August 1990, uses the "vanilla" X11R4 Intrinsics, where "vanilla" means "with just a few patches"; the file fix-osf which OSF distributes is obsoleted by MIT's patches 15-17. The file fix-osf-1.1.1 distributed with the 1.1.1 version or its subsequent modification needs to be applied after MIT fix-18, though. Motif 1.1.1 to 1.1.3 will work with X11R5 if X11R5 is compiled with -DMOTIFBC; 1.1.4 and later should work with the vanilla R5, although there are some known new geometry-management problems. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 63) Where can I get toolkits implementing OPEN LOOK? Sun's XView has a SunView-style API. A version is on the X11R4 tape; the latest [2/92] 3.0 sources are on export in contrib/xview3/. XView and X binaries for the Sun 386i ("roadrunner") are available for ftp from svin01.win.tue.nl (131.155.70.70), directory pub/X11R4_386i. Supported binaries of XView 2.0 or 3.0 include: XView for non-Sun Platforms (domestic and selected international vendors). Several are also available from Sun; contact your local sales office. Amiga GfxBase, Inc. 1881 Ellwell Drive (AmigaDOS) (408) 262-1469 Milpitas, CA 95035 Fax: (408) 262-8276 SGI Sony (NEWS-OS) IBM RS/6000 HP 9000 DECstation UniPress Software 2025 Lincoln Highway (Ultrix) (908) 985-8000 Edison, NJ 08817 Fax: (908) 287-4929 UniPress Software, Ltd. PO Box 70 44-624-661-8850 Viking House Fax: 44-624-663-453 Nelson Street Douglas, Isle of Man United Kingdom DEC VAXstation TGV 603 Mission Street (VMS) (800) TGV-3440 Santa Cruz, CA 95060 (408) 427-4366 Fax: (408) 427-4365 Unipalm Ltd. 145-147 St. Neots Road 44-0954-211797 Hardwick Fax: 44-0954-211244 Cambridge CB3 7QJ England Intel 386 Quarterdeck Office 150 Pico Boulevard (DOS) Systems Santa Monica, CA 90405 (213) 392-9851 Fax: (213) 399-3802 Intel 386 SunSoft Corporation 6601 Center Drive West (Interactive 310-348-8649 Suite 700 UNIX and Los Angeles, CA 90045 SCO UNIX) Stardent Scripps Institute Clinic MB-5 (Stellix OS Fax: (619) 554-4485 10666 N. Torrey Pines Road and Titan OS) Include mailstop MB-5 La Jolla, CA 92057 By ftp: 192.42.82.8 in pub/binary/{Xview.README,XView.tar.Z} AT&T's OPEN LOOK GUI 3.0 Xt-based toolkit is now generally available [2/92]; contact 1-800-828-UNIX#544 for information. Binaries are produced for SPARC systems by International Quest Corporation (408-988-8289). A version of the toolkit is also produced under the name OLIT by Sun. More recent versions of OLIT have been ported to IBM 6000 and DEC MIPS by both UniPress and ICS. OLIT is also available for HP from Melillo Consulting (908-873-0075). MJM (Somerset, NJ) makes OLIT 4.0 for HP 7xx series running HPUX 8.0, DECstations, and RS/6000s [thanks to Joanne Newbauer, jo@attunix.att.com, 908-522-6677.] Sun is shipping OpenWindows 3.0; contact your local sales representative for more details; the package includes toolkit binaries and header files. ParcPlace's (formerly Solbourne's) extensible C++-based Object Interface Library, which supports run-time selection between Open Look or Motif, is available from 303-678-4626. [5/92] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 64)! Where can I get other X sources? (including R5 modifications) The MIT Software Center ships the X Test Suite on tape. A multi-threaded version of Xlib based on X11R5 patch 12 is now available for anonymous FTP from (new version 1/93): DEC on gatekeeper.dec.com (16.1.0.2) in /pub/X11/contrib/mt-xlib-1.1 MIT on export.lcs.mit.edu (18.24.0.12) in /contrib/mt-xlib-1.1 HP has made available drivers to permit the building of the X11R5 sample server on the HP 9000 Series 700 workstations; the files are on export.lcs.mit.edu in ~ftp/contrib/R5.HP.SRV. [8/92] User-contributed software is distributed through the newsgroup comp.sources.x, moderated by Chris Olson (chris@imd.sterling.com); also check that group for posting information. Richard Hesketh (rlh2@ukc.ac.uk) has been creating a list of freely- available X sources. The list is stored on export.lcs.mit.edu in contrib as x-source-list.Z. It lists the main storage locations for the program and international sites from which it may be ftp'ed. The machine export.lcs.mit.edu has a great deal of user-contributed software in the contrib/ directory; a good deal of it is present in current or earlier versions on the X11R3, X11R4, and X11R5 contrib tapes. There are also directories for fixes to contrib software. The file on export in contrib/00-index.txt is a quick overall index of the software in that area, provided by Daniel Lewart (d-lewart@uiuc.edu). These sites used to and may still mirror export and are of particular use for Australasia: Anonymous ftp: ftp.Adelaide.EDU.AU; ACSnet Fetchfile: sirius.ua.oz. The material on giza.cis.ohio-state.edu, which tends to duplicate the export archives, is also available via anonymous UUCP from osu-cis, at TB+ and V.32 speeds. Write to uucp@cis.ohio-state.edu (same as osu-cis!uucp) for instructions. [the archive is now maintained by Karl Kleinpaste] A new west-coast UUCP X11 Archive is administered by Mark Snitily (mark@zok.uucp) and contains the full X11 distribution, the XTEST distribution, an entire archive of comp.sources.x and other goodies. The machine zok has a TB+ modem which will connect to 19.2K, 2400, 1200 baud (in that order). The anonymous UUCP account is UXarch with password Xgoodies. The modem's phone number is 408-996-8285. A sample Systems (or L.sys) entry might be: zok Any ACU 19200 4089968285 in:--in: UXarch word: Xgoodies To get a current listing of the files that are available, download the file "/usrX/ls-lR.Z". A full subject index of the comp.sources.x files is available in the file "/usrX/comp.sources.x/INDEX". The machine has just the one modem, so please do not fetch large amounts of data at one sitting. [courtesy Mark Snitily, 2/90] In addition, UUNET Source Archives (703-876-5050) tracks comp.sources.x and provides 800MB+ of compressed programs on 6250 bpi tapes or 1/4" tapes. It also mirrors export/contrib in its packages/X directory. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 65)! Where can I get interesting widgets? The Free Widget Foundation (FWF) library sponsored by Brian Totty (totty@cs.uiuc.edu) is now [2/93] available on a.cs.uiuc.edu (128.174.252.1) in pub/fwf-v3.41.shar.Z. The set of widgets there is intended to form the basis for future contributions. To be added to the discussion list, send to listserv@cs.uiuc.edu a message saying "subscribe <listname> <your-full-name>" where <listname> is one of free-widgets-announce, free-widgets-development, or free-widgets-bugs. Version 3.4 is current; look for 4.0 in 4/93. The Xew widget set contains widgets for data representation. Version 1.2 [4/93] is on export contrib/Xew-1.2.tar.Z. Peter Ware's Xo "Open Widget" set, which has Motif-like functionality, is on archive.cis.ohio-state.edu as pub/Xo/Xo-2.1.tar.Z [8/92]. The AthenaTools Plotter Widget Set Version 6-beta [7/92] maintained by Peter Klingebiel (klin@iat.uni-paderborn.de) includes many graph and plotting widgets; a copy is on export in plotter.v6b.tar.Z, plotter.doc.tar.Z, plotter.afm.tar.Z, and plotter.README. The latest versions may in fact be on ftp@uni-paderborn.de (131.234.2.32) in /unix/tools. An advance version of Marc Quinton's Motif port of the FWF MultiList widget is in ftp.stna7.stna.dgac.fr:pub/MultiList.tar.Z [143.196.9.31]. Additional widgets are available on the contrib/ portion of the X11R4 tapes; these include the Xcu set. Paul Johnston's (johnston@spc5.jpl.nasa.gov) X Control Panel widget set emulates hardware counterparts; sources are on export.lcs.mit.edu in Xc-1.3.tar.Z. O'Reilly Volume 4, Doug Young's book, the Asente/Swick book, and Jerry Smith's "Object-oriented Programming with the X Window System Toolkits" all include details on writing widgets and include several useful widgets; sources are typically on export and/or UUNET. The Dirt interface builder includes the libXukc widet set which extends the functionality of Xaw. A graph widget and other 2D-plot and 3D-contour widgets by Sundar Narasimhan (sundar@ai.mit.edu) are available from ftp.ai.mit.edu as /com/ftp/pub/users/sundar/graph.tar.Z. The graph widget has been updated [3/91] with documentation and histogram capabilities. A graph widget is available from ftp.stna7.stna.dgac.fr in pub/Graph.tar.Z; it uses a segment list for drawing and hence supports a zoom operation. Ken Lee's Xm widget (demo) that uses Display PostScript to draw labels at a non-horizontal angle is on export in contrib/dpslabel.tar.Z. The Table widget (works like troff TBL tables) is available in several flavors, one of which is with the Widget Creation Library release. Bell Communications Research has developed a Matrix widget for complex application layouts; it's on export in contrib/Xbae-widgets-3.8.tar.Z [2/93. The distribution also includes a "caption" widget to associate labels with particular GUI components. (7/92) Dan Connolly's (connolly@convex.COM) XcRichText interprets RTF data; it's on export as contrib/XcRichText-1.1.tar.Z. The XmGraph Motif-based graphing widget is on iworks.ecn.uiowa.edu in /comp.hp/GUI_classic/XmGraph.tar.Z although it may not be stable. A TeX-style Layout widget by Keith Packard is described in the proceedings of the 7th MIT Technical Conference (O'Reilly X Resource volume 5); source is available on export contrib/Layout.tar.Z. A version of Lee Iverson's (leei@McRCIM.McGill.EDU) image-viewing tool is available as contrib/vimage-0.9.3.tar.Z on export.lcs.mit.edu. The package also includes an ImageViewPort widget and a FileDialog widget. [12/91;5/92] In addition, the PEXt toolkit by Rich Thomson (rthomson@dsd.es.com) is available on export as PEXt.tar.Z; it includes a PEX widget making it easier to use PEX in Xt-based programs. A Motif port of the Xaw clock widget is in ftp.stna7.stna.dgac.fr in pub/Clock.tar.Z. A modification of the Xaw ScrollBar widget which supports the arrowhead style of other toolkits is on export in contrib/Xaw.Scrollbar.mta.Z. A beta 0.3 (11/92) release of the R5 Xaw widgets with a 3D visual appearance by Kaleb Keithley (kaleb@thyme.jpl.nasa.gov) is available on export in contrib/Xaw3d/R5/Xaw3d-0.3.tar.Z. The library, which is binary-compatible with the MIT Xaw, implements a 3D subclass which handles the extra drawing. Also: The Xmt "Motif Tools", Dovetail Systems's shareware library of 9 widgets and many convenience functions, is available from export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib and ftp.ora.com:/pub/xbook/Xmt in xmt-README and xmt-1.0.tar.Z. The Xtra XWidgets set includes widgets for pie and bar charts, XY plots, Help, spreadsheets, data entry forms, and line and bar graphs. Contact Graphical Software Technology at 310-328-9338 (info@gst.com) for information. The XRT/graph widget, available for Motif, XView and OLIT, displays X-Y plots, bar and pie charts, and supports user-feedback, fast updates and PostScript output. Contact KL Group Inc. at 416-594-1026 (info@klg.com). A set of data-entry widgets for Motif is available from Marlan Software, 713-467-1458 (gwg@world.std.com). A set of graph widgets is available from Expert Database Systems (212-370-6700). A set of OSF/Motif compound widgets and support routines for 2D visualization is available from Ms Quek Lee Hian, National Computer Board, Republic of Singapore; Tel : (65)7720435; Fax : (65)7795966; leehian@iti.gov.sg, leehian@itivax.bitnet. The ICS Widget Databook includes a variety of control widgets and special-purpose widgets, available on a variety of platforms. Information: 617-621-0060, info@ics.com. Information on graphing tools may be obtained from info@TomSawyer.com (+1-510-848-0853, fax: +1-510-848-0854). ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 66) Where can I get a good file-selector widget? The Free Widget Foundation set offers a FileSelector widget, with separate directory path and file listing windows, and the FileComplete, which has emacs-style file completion and ~ expansion. Other available file-requestor widgets include the XiFileSelector from Iris Software's book, the xdbx file-selector extracted by David Nedde (daven@wpi.wpi.edu), and the FileNominator from the aXe distribution. The GhostView, Xfig, and vimage packages also include file-selector widgets. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 67) What widget is appropriate to use as a drawing canvas? Some widget sets have a widget particularly for this purpose -- a WorkSpace or DrawingArea which doesn't display anything but lets your Xt application know when it has been re-exposed, resized, and when it has received user key and mouse input. The best thing to do for other widget sets -- including the Athena set -- is to create or obtain such a widget; this is preferable to drawing into a core widget and grabbing events with XtAddEventHandler(), which loses a number of benefits of Xt and encapsulation of the functionality . At least one version has been posted to comp.sources.x (name???). The publicly-available programs xball and xpic include other versions. The Athena Widget manual (mit/doc/Xaw/Template in the R5 distribution) includes a tutorial and source code to a simple widget which is suitable for use. The Free Widget Foundation set contains a Canvas widget. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 68) What is the current state of the world in X terminals? Jim Morton (jim@applix.com) posts quarterly to comp.windows.x a list of manufacturers and terminals; it includes pricing information. Notable buyers-guide surveys include: - the September 1991 issue of Systems Integration ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 69) Where can I get an X server with a touchscreen or lightpen? Labtam (+61 3 587 1444, fax +61 3 580 5581) offers a 19" Surface Acoustic Wave touch-screen option on its Xengine terminals. Tektronix (1-800-225-5434) provides an X terminal with the Xtouch touch-screen. This terminal may also be resold through Trident Systems (703-273-1012). Metro Link (305-970-7353) supports the EloGraphics Serial Touch Screen Controllers. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 70) Where can I get an X server on a PC (DOS or Unix)? MIT X11R5 already provides a server to many 386/486 *Unixes* with support for many of the popular video graphics adapters; and for other non-MSDOS PCs you can obtain a server from these sources: XFree86 (formerly X386 1.2E) is an enhanced version of X386 1.2, which was distributed with X11R5; it includes many bug fixes, speed improvements, and other enhancements. Source for version 1.2 [2/93] is on export.lcs.mit.edu in pub/contrib, ftp.physics.su.oz.au in /X386, and ftp.win.tue.nl in /pub/X386. In addition, binaries are on ftp.physics.su.oz.au, and ftp.win.tue.nl among other systems. Info: x386@physics.su.oz.au. Note: this package obsoletes Glenn Lai's Speedup patches for an enhanced X11R5 server for 386 UNIXes with ET4000 boards (SpeedUp.tar.Z on export). Metro Link Inc. (305-970-7353, sales@metrolink.com; in Europe contact ADNT, (33 1) 3956 5333) ships an implementation of X11R4 for the 386/486 Unix market. SGCS offers X386 Version 1.3, based on Thomas Roell's X11R5 two-headed server, in binary and source form. Information: 408-255-9665, info@sgcs.com. ISC, SCO, UHC, and other well-known operating-system vendors typically offer X servers. For MSDOS PCs: Daniel J. McCoy (mccoy@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov) has started posting monthly a list of non-UNIX servers for PCs, Macs, and Amigas; it includes pricing information. The current copy is kept on export in contrib as XServers-NonUNIX.txt.Z. An article on PC X servers appears in the March 2, 1992 Open Systems Today. Also of possible use: Net-I from Programit (212-809-1707) enables communication among DOS, OS/2 and Unix machines and can be used to display PC sessions on your Unix X display. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 71) Where can I get an X server on a Macintosh running MacOS? eXodus from White Pine Software (603-886-9050) runs on any Mac with at least 1MB of memory and runs the X server within a standard Macintosh window. Version 3.0 [6/91] supports intermixing of X and Mac windows and the ADSP protocol. The version supports the SHAPE extension and includes DECwindows support. Apple's MacX runs on MacPlus or newer machines with >= 2MB of memory and system software 6.0.4 or later. Version 1.1 is fully X11R4-based. It supports full ICCCM-compatible cut and paste of text AND graphics between the Macintosh and X11 worlds, the SHAPE extension (including SHAPEd windows on the Macintosh desktop), an optional built-in ICCCM-compliant window manager, X11R4 fonts and colors, a built-in BDF font compiler, and built-in standard colormaps. Upgrades to MacX are available by ftp from aux.support.apple.com. Info: 408-996-1010. [Note: MacX is also the name of a vax-mac xmodem transfer utility.] Also: Liken (1-800-245-UNIX or info@qualix.com) software enables monochrome 68000 Mac applications to run on a SPARC system running X. Xport (1-800-245-UNIX (415-572-0200) or xport@qualix.com) enables Mac applications to display on an X-based workstation by turning the Mac into an X client. Intercon has a product called Planet-X which enables Mac applications to display on an X server. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 72) Where can I get X for the Amiga? The new Amiga 3000 machines offer an X server and OPEN LOOK tools and libraries on a full SVR4 implementation. GfxBase, Inc. provides "X11 R4.1" for the AmigaDos computer; it contains X11R4 clients, fonts, etc., and a Release 4 color server. An optional programmer's toolkit includes the header files, libraries, and sample programs. Info from GfxBase, 408-262-1469. [Dale Luck (uunet!{cbmvax|pyramid}!boing!dale); 2/91] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 73) Where can I get a fast X server for a workstation? The R5 server should be among the fastest available for most machines. Sun sells a "Direct Xlib" product which improves rendering for applications running on the same machine as the X server; the replacement Xlib library accesses graphics hardware directly using Sun's Direct Graphics Access (DGA) technology. International Quest Corporation (408-988-8289) has an optimized R4 server for Sun3/4 under SunOS 4.0. Unipalm have R4 Servers for Sun3 and Sparc platforms. These are optimised to use graphics hardware and will run with Sunview. Information: +44 954 211797 or xtech@unipalm.co.uk. Xgraph's Xtool (408-492-9031) is an X server implemented in SunView which boasts impressive results on Sun 3 and SPARC systems. [6/90] Several companies are making hardware accellerator boards: Dupont Pixel Systems (302-992-6911), for Sun. Megatek's (619-455-5590) X-cellerator board for the Sun 3 and Sun 4 is based on the TI 34020; the company claims performance improvements of 5x to 10x over the sample X11R3 server. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 74)! Where can I get a server for my high-end Sun graphics board? Takahashi Naoto (Electrotechnical Laboratory, ntakahas@etl.go.jp) has modified the MIT X11R5 server to support the Sun CG8, CG9, and CG12 boards. The files are on export in contrib/Xsun24-3.[01].tar.Z. Note that both files are necessary to build Xsun24-3.1. The JPL R5 Xsun Multi-screen server is a general purpose replacement for the MIT server/ddx/sun layer; it provides for the screen to be split among several monitors and implements several other features above the MIT implementation. Available on export.lcs.mit.edu in the file contrib/R5.Xsun.multi-screen.tar.Z. [Kaleb Keithley, kaleb@thyme.jpl.nasa.gov, 12/91; the file was updated 24 Mar 1993.] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 75) Where can I get an "X terminal" server for my low-end Sun 3/50? Seth Robertson (seth@ctr.columbia.edu) has written Xkernel; the current version [1.4 as of 8/91, 2.0 expected RSN] is on sol.ctr.columbia.edu [128.59.64.40] in /pub/Xkernel.gamma. It turns a Sun 3/50 into a pseudo- X terminal; most of the overhead of the operating system is side-stepped, so it is fairly fast and needs little disk space. A similar approach is to run the regular X server by making /etc/init a shell script which does the minimal setup and then invokes Xsun, like this example script from mouse@larry.mcrcim.mcgill.EDU: #! /bin/sh exec >/dev/console 2>&1 /etc/fsck -p /dev/nd0 case $? in 0) ;; 4) /etc/reboot -q -n ;; 8) echo ND fsck failed - get help /etc/halt ;; 12) echo Interrupted /etc/reboot ;; *) echo Unknown error in reboot fsck - get help /etc/halt ;; esac /bin/dd if=/tmp-fs of=/dev/nd2 bs=512 count=128 >/dev/null 2>&1 /etc/mount /dev/nd2 /tmp /etc/ifconfig le0 netmask 255.255.255.0 broadcast 132.206.41.255 /etc/mount -o ro apollo:/u2/x11/lib /local/lib/X11 /etc/route add default 132.206.41.1 1 >/dev/null set `/etc/ifconfig le0` exec /Xsun -once -multidisp -mux -query \ `(sh -vn </local/lib/X11/xdm-servers/$2 2>&1)` ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 76) What terminal emulators other than xterm are available? PCS has rewritten xterm from scratch using a multi-widget approach that can be used by applications. A version is on the R5 contrib tape and on export in contrib/emu.tar.Z [10/91]. For more information, contact me@dude.pcs.com. mxterm, a Motif-based xterm is available from the Paderborner ftp-Server ftp@uni-paderborn.de (131.234.2.32), file /unix/X11/more_contrib/mxterm.tar.Z. The Color Terminal Widget provides ANSI-terminal emulation compatible with the VTx00 series; a version is on export in contrib/CTW-1.1.tar.Z. A Motif version is on ftp.stna7.stna.dgac.fr in pub/Term-1.0.tar.Z. kterm 4.1.2 is an X11R4-based vt100/vt102 (and Tektronix 4014) terminal emulator that supports display of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean text (in VT mode). Also supported are: ANSI color sequences, multi-byte word selection, limited Compound Text support, and tab and newline preservation in selections. kterm 4.1.2 is also available from these anonymous ftp sites: clr.nmsu.edu:pub/misc/kterm-4.1.2.tar.Z [128.123.1.14] export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/kterm-4.1.2.tar.Z [18.24.0.12] kum.kaist.ac.kr:pub/unix/Xstuffs/kterm-4.1.2.tar.Z [137.68.1.65] [courtesy of Mark Leisher <mleisher@nmsu.edu> ] kterm-5.1.1.tar.Z is now on export [12/92]. mterm, by mouse@larry.McRCIM.McGill.EDU, is an X terminal emulator which includes ANSI X3.64 and DEC emulation modes. mterm can be had by ftp to larry.mcrcim.mcgill.edu (132.206.1.1), in X/mterm.src/mterm.ball-o-wax. Cxterm is a Chinese xterm, which supports both GB2312-1980 and the so-called Big-5 encoding. Hanzi input conversion mechanism is builtin in cxterm. Most input methods are stored in external files that are loaded at run time. Users can redefine any existing input methods or create their own ones. The X11R5 cxterm is the rewritten of cxterm (version 11.5.1) based on X11R5 xterm; it is in the R5 contrib software. [thanks to Zhou Ning <zhou@tele.unit.no> and Steinar Bang <uunet!idt.unit.no!steinarb>.] XVT is available on export's contrib in xvt-1.0.tar.Z and xvt-1.0.README. It is designed to offer xterm's functionality with lower swap space and may be of particular use on systems driving many X terminals. x3270 is in X11R5 contrib/. Also: IBM sells a 3270 emulator for the RS/6000 (part #5765-011); it's based on Motif. Century Software (801-268-3088) sells a VT220 terminal emulator for X. VT102, Wyse 50 and SCO Color Console emulation are also available. Grafpoint's TGRAF-X provides emulation of Tektronix 4107, 4125, and 42xx graphics terminals; it's available for most major platforms. Information (inc. free demo copies): 800-426-2230; Fax. 408-446-0666; uunet!grafpnt!sales. IXI's X.deskterm, a package for integrating character-based applications into an X environment, includes a number of terminal-emulation modules. Information: +44 (0223) 462131. [5/90] Pericom produces Teem-X, a set of several emulation packages for a number of Tek, DEC, Westward, and Data General terminals. The software runs on Sun 3, Sun 4, Apollo, DEC, ISC, IBM/AIX. Information: US: 609-895-0404, UK: +44 (0908) 560022. [5/90] SCO's SCOterm (info@sco.COM), part of its Open Desktop environment, is a Motif-compliant SCO ANSI color console emulator. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 77)! Where can I get an X-based editor or word-processor? You can ftp a version of GNU Emacs, the extensible, customizable, self-documenting, real-time display editor, including X11 support, from prep.ai.mit.edu [18.71.0.38]:/pub/gnu/emacs-18.59.tar.Z or informatik.tu-muenchen.de:/pub/GNU/emacs/emacs-18.59.tar.Z. Epoch is a modified version of Gnu Emacs (18) with additional facilities useful in an X environment. Current sources are on cs.uiuc.edu (128.174.252.1) in ~ftp/pub/epoch-files/epoch; the current [3/92] version is 4.0. [In Europe, try unido.informatik.uni-dortmund.de]. There are two subdirectories: epoch contains the epoch source, and gwm contains the source to the programmable window manager GWM, with which epoch works well.] You can get on the Epoch mailing list by sending a request to epoch-request@cs.uiuc.edu. Lucid Emacs is a version of GNU Emacs derived from an early version of Emacs version 19. It currently requires X Windows to run; X support is greatly enhanced over GNU Emacs version 18, including support for multiple X windows, input and display of all ISO-8859-1 (Latin1) characters, Zmacs/Lispm style region highlighting, a customizable Motif-like menubar, more powerful keymap support, flexible text attributes, support on regional and screen-local basis through X resources and/or lisp, and support for the X11 selection mechanism. Lucid Emacs is free; the latest version (2/93) is 19.4, and is available from labrea.stanford.edu in the pub/gnu/lucid/ directory. The Andrew system on the X11 contrib tapes has been described as one of the best word-processing packages available. It supports word processing with multi-media embedded objects: rasters, tables/spread sheets, drawings, style editor, application builder, embedded programming language, &c. Release 5.1 became available 2 June 92. [Fred Hansen (wjh+@ANDREW.CMU.EDU)] You may be able to use the Remote Andrew Demo service to try this software; try "finger help@atk.itc.cmu.edu" for help. The InterViews C++ toolkit contains a WYSIWIG editor called Doc; it saves and loads files in a LaTeX-*like* format (not quite LaTeX). The package can also import idraw-PostScript drawings. A simple editor aXe (by J.K.Wight@newcastle.ac.uk) is available on export and arjuna.newcastle.ac.uk (128.240.150.1) as aXe-4.1.tar.Z [3/93]. It is based around the Xaw Text widget. TED is a simple Motif-based text editor; it is a wrapper around the Motif text widget which offers search/replace, paragraph formatting, and navigation features. TED is available from ftp.eos.ncsu.edu (152.1.9.25) as /pub/bill.tar.Z; here are also executables there. Point, by crowley@unmvax.cs.unm.edu (Charlie Crowley), is Tcl/Tk-based and offers dyanimic configuration and programming in the Tcl macro language. The editor is available from unmvax.cs.unm.edu (129.24.16.1) as pub/Point/point1.1-tar.Z. asedit, by Andrzej Stochniol (astoch@ic.ac.uk) is on export in contrib/asedit.tar.Z. It is a simple text editor built around the Motif Text widget. Version 1.11 was released 1/93. Also: Elan Computer Group (Mountain View, CA; 415-964-2200) has announced the Avalon Publisher 2.0, an X11/OPEN LOOK WYSIWYG electronic publishing system. FrameMaker and FrameWriter are available as X-based binary products for several machines. Frame is at 800-843-7263 (CA: 408-433-3311). WX2 (formerly InDepthEdit) is available from Non Standard Logics (+33 (1) 43 36 77 50; requests@nsl.fr). Buzzwords International Inc. has an editor called 'Professional Edit' that runs under X/Motif for various platforms. Info: +1-314-334-6317. DECwrite is available from DEC for some DEC hardware and SunWrite is available from Sun. IslandWrite will soon be available from Island Graphics (415-491-1000) (info@island.com) for some HP & Apollo platforms. Interleaf is currently available from Interleaf (800-241-7700, MA: 617-577-9800) on all Sun and DEC platforms; others are under development. The Aster*x office integration tools from Applix (1-800-8APPLIX, MA: 508-870-0300) include a multi-font WYSIWG document composer; for several systems. ArborText, Inc. provides an X11 version of its Electronic Publishing program called "The Publisher". The Publisher is available on Sun, HP and Apollo workstations. Contact Arbortext at 313-996-3566. [5/90] Iris Computing Laboratories offers the "ie" editor. Info: +1-505-988-2670 or info@spectro.com. BBN/Slate from BBN Software Products includes a menu-driven word processor with multiple fonts and style sheets. It supports X on multiple platforms. (617-873-5000 or slate-offer@bbn.com) [11/90] The powerful "sam" editor by Rob Pike is split into a host portion and a front-end graphics portion, which now has an X implementation. sam is now available by anonymous ftp from research.att.com, in dist/sam/bundle.Z. Watch that space for updated versions. There is a mailing list for sam users; requests to <sam-fans-request@hawkwind.utcs.toronto.edu>. A set of extensions which augment the mouse activity with the keyboard is available from uxc.cso.uiuc.edu in pub/sam/samx1.0.shar. Innovative Solutions (505-883-4252; or Brian Zimbelman, is!brian@bbx.basis.com) publishes the user-configurable Motif-based Xamine editor. Qualix offers a product. Information: info@qualix.com or 800-245-UNIX (415-572-0200). Typex is a Motif-based editor available for several systems. Information: Amcad Research, 408-867-5705, fax -6209. WordPerfect offers an X-based version of WordPerfect 5.1 for several workstations. Information: 801-222-5300 or 800-451-5151. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 78) Where can I get an X-based mailer? xmh, an X interface to mh, is distributed with the X11 release. Xmail is an X-based window interface to Berkeley-style mail handlers; it is styled primarily after the Sunview mailtool application and builds on most Unix systems. The current release [1/92] is 1.4, available in the MIT X11R5 contrib tape and from export and uunet. Info: Jeff Markham, markham@cadence.com. MMH (My Mail Handler), a motif interface to the MH mail handler, is available from ftp.eos.ncsu.edu (152.1.9.25) in pub/bill.tar.Z; it is bundled with the TED editor, which it uses for composing messages. Motif 1.1 is required; if you don't have it, look for DEC and SPARC executables in the same place. Information and problems to: Erik Scott, escott@eos.ncsu.edu. [1/92] The Andrew Toolkit supports the Andrew Message System; it is available from export and many other X archives and from emsworth.andrew.cmu.edu (128.2.30.62), or send email to susan+@andrew.cmu.edu. Release 5.1 became available 2 June 92. You may be able to use the Remote Andrew Demo service to try this software; try "finger help@atk.itc.cmu.edu" for help. XMailTool is an Xaw-based interface to a BSD-style mail reader; version 2.0 was released 9/92. Information: Bob Kierski, bobo@cray.com or 612-683-5874. Cem is a Motif-based mailer using standard mailbox formats; it is on nelson.tx.ncsu.edu in pub/Cem. Information: Sam Moore (Sam_Moore@ncsu.edu). Also: Alfalfa Software offers Poste, a UNIX-based mailer that has Motif- and command-based interfaces. It includes support for multimedia enclosures, and supports both the Internet and X.400 mail standards. Information: info@alfalfa.com, +1 617-497-2922. Z-Code Software offers Z-Mail for most Unix systems; binaries support both tty and Motif interfaces. The mailer includes a csh-like scripting language for customizing and extending mail capabilities. Information: info@z-code.com, +1 415 499-8649. Several vendors' systems include X-based mailers. DEC offers dxmail; Sun offers an X-based mailtool; SCO (info@sco.com) includes SCOmail in its Open Desktop product. Several integrated office-productivity tools include mailers: The Aster*x office integration tools from Applix (1-800-8APPLIX, MA: 508-870-0300) include a mailer. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Subject: 79)! Where can I get an X-based paint/draw program? xpic is an object-oriented drawing program. It supports multiple font styles and sizes and variable line widths; there are no rotations or zooms. xpic is quite suitable as an interactive front-end to pic, though the xpic-format produced can be converted into PostScript. (The latest version is on the R4 contrib tape in clients/xpic.) xfig (by Brian V. Smith (bvsmith@lbl.gov)) is an object-oriented drawing program supporting compound objects. The xfig format can be converted to PostScript or other formats. Recent versions are on the R5 contrib tape or on export in /contrib/R5fixes (version 2.1.6 [11/92]). idraw supports numerous fonts and various line styles and arbitrary rotations. It supports zoom and scroll and color draws and fills. The file format is a PostScript dialect. It can import TIFF files. Distributed as a part of the InterViews C++ toolkit (current release 3.1, from interviews.stanford.edu) . A version of Robert Forsman's (thoth@lightning.cis.ufl.edu) xscribble, an 8-bit paint program for X, is now on ftp.cis.ufl.edu in pub/thoth/. [2/93] xpaint is available from ftp.ee.lbl.gov as xpaint.tar.Z. A rewrite, Xpaint 2.0, by David Koblas (koblas@netcom.com) was released 2/93 as xpaint2pl3.tar.Z. xpaint is a bitmap/pixmap editing tool. A new OpenWindows PostScript-based graphical editor named 'ice' is now [2/91] available for anonymous ftp from Internet host lamont.ldgo.columbia.edu (129.236.10.30). ice (Image Composition Environment) is an imaging tool that allows raster images to be combined with a wide variety of PostScript annotations in WYSIWYG fashion via X11 imaging routines and NeWS PostScript rasterizing. (It may require OpenWindows and Sun C++ 2.0.) tgif by William Cheng (william@oahu.cs.ucla.edu) is available from most uucp sites and also from export and from cs.ucla.edu. It is frequently updated; version 2.12-patch18 was released 3/93. The "pixmap" program (info: colas@sa.inria.fr) for creating pixmaps is on the R5 contrib tape; it resembles the bitmap client. Version 2.1 is now available. [11/92] Although MetaCard is not generally classified as a paint program, a full 24-bit color image editor is built into the program, which can be used for light image editing and for producing color icons (info@metacard.com). MetaCard is available via anonymous FTP from ftp.metacard.com, csn.org, or 128.138.213.21. pixt by J. Michael Flanery produces XPM output. Also: dxpaint is a bitmap-oriented drawing program most like MacPaint; it's good for use by artists but commonly held to be bad for drawing figures or drafting. dxpaint is part of DEC's Ultrix release. FrameMaker has some draw capabilities. [4/90] BBN/Slate from BBN Software Products includes a full-featured draw and paint program with object grouping and multiple patterns; multiple X platforms. (617-873-5000 or slate-offer@bbn.com). [11/90] Dux Ta-Dah!, 1-800-543-4999 IslandGraphics offers IslandDraw, IslandPaint, IslandPresent. Info: 415-491-1000. Corel Draw, 613-728-8200; ported to X by Prior Data Sciences 800-267-2626 Arts&Letters Composer, 214-661-8960 Ficor AutoGraph, 513-771-4466 OpenWindows includes the olpixmap editor. SCO ODT includes the SCOpaint editor. HP VUE includes the vueicon editor. Several integrated office-productivity tools include draw/paint capabilities: The Aster*x office integration tools from Applix (1-800-8APPLIX, MA: 508-870-0300) include draw/paint capabilities. [thanks in part to Stephen J. Byers (af997@cobcs1.cummins.com) and to J. Daniel Smith (dsmith@ann-arbor.applicon.slb.com)] ---------------------------------------------------------------------- David B. Lewis faq%craft@uunet.uu.net "Just the FAQs, ma'am." -- Joe Friday
That shows how much you know about anything. The brakes on the SHO are very different - 9 inch (or 9.5? I forget) discs all around, vented in front. The normal Taurus setup is (smaller) discs front, drums rear. Your argument still boils down to "An SHO shouldn't be driven fast because I, Jim Frost, say it isn't designed to go fast." Pffffftttttt. Damn straight. You're one of those people who makes stuff up and tries to pawn it off as God's own truth. If I want lies I can go listen to television.
For the last time, Bobby. Lack of belief in YOUR god does NOT imply atheism. Just because some moslems aren't moral does not mean they don't believe in a god named Allah, although their Allah may not do the things your Allah does. If a moslem says he/she believes that a god exists, he/she is a theist (though maybe not a TRUE follower of islam). Jerk.
Does that imply that people who take marriage vows but aren't sincere are not married?
I am in the midst of designing a project which requires two motors and an LED illuminator driven with Pulse-width modulation. I'm using the 8751, and I understand that the -FB version has a programmable counter array that can essentially be set and forgotten to do the PWM. The problems is, that variant is difficult to come by. I need two or three of the D prefix (ceramic window) version for development, and then lots of the P prefix (plastic OTP) for later production. I've tried Avnet, Arrow, and Pioneer. They (might) have them, but I'm looking for samples at this point, and they're not too willing to provide them. I would buy them, but these vendors have $100.00 minimums. Any help is appreciated.
ETHER IMPLODES 2 EARTH CORE, IS GRAVITY!!! This paper BOTH describes how heavenly bodys can be stationary, ether sucking structures, AND why we observe "orbital" motion!! Ether, the theoretical propogation media of electro-magnetic waves, was concluded not to exist, based on the results of the Michelson-Moreley experiment conducted a century ago. I propose that those conclusions are flawed, based on the fact that the experiment was designed to look for a flow parallel to the earth's surface, not perpindicular. (Due to the prevailing assumption that the earth traveled through the ether as a ball through the wind) The reversal of the that conclusion, a pivotal keystone in the development of modern scientific thought, could have ramifications of BIBLICAL proportions through out the WORLD!! REMEMBER: Einstien said Imagination is greater than knowledge!! 1 I dream like this: ether based reality The ether is like a fluid out of phase with our reality. Creations start as a lattice placed into the ether. Given a spin, the lattices both drag the fluid, like a margarita blender, and ingest it, converting it, distilling localized mass, time and energy. (non-spinning lattice = "dark matter") The earth isn't exactly spinning, around the sun. Picture an image of a galaxy; we haven't any videos of them spinning. Picture us being stationary, and the sun's image being dragged across the sky by the spinning ether field. (Picture an onion, each layer of which is spinning a little faster than the next. A thread shot at the inner kernel would be stretched diagonally sideways, its head being in a faster shell than its tail, until it finally intersected the ground of the inner kernel, its direction vector being straight down, but its "foot print" being a line, not a point. [sunrise, sunset]) The moon isn't exactly orbiting us. It is a parasite, (non self spin sustaining ) being dragged in the earth's ether field, which is itself in the sun's much more powerful field. Our seasons are the wobble of earth's axis, like a top slowing down. The "orbit" of the earth around the sun is all of the stars' images being dragged around by the sun's ether feild. The earth, moon and sun are about the same size and "distance" apart. Its just that the time between them varies greatly, because the "path" is not the same. The moon's lattice in the ether is like sticking a fork in a plate of spaghetti and giving the plate a half turn. The sun's lattice has so much spin that its like the fork has got the whole plate of noodles wound up. The piece of light going to the moon can slide down the spaghetti and maybe make a "j" hook at the end. The piece of light going to the sun has to go around the whole plate, like a needle in a record, before it gets there. With a pencil, compass, and rule, draw a diagram of how the moon can be about as big as "earth's" shadow upon it, and at other times totally eclipse the sun. Look in the sky. except for your Knowledge, would you guess that they are about the same size, just because they look about the same size? O . - - E O O O S E / \ M | | OR M \ _ _ / S The full moon, quarter moon etc. is the difference between rate of ether spins. What we are looking at is a rotating "turntable view" of the moon, only half of which is facing the sun. ( I've seen a half moon within about 120 degrees (of sky) of the sun, during the day. Try and draw that "earth shadow.") Its only the moon's image which appears to orbit us. No matter where it is, the light part is the part facing the sun, and the dark part is the half facing away from the sun, even when it appears to be behind us. "Light-Years" between galaxies is a misnomer. The distance is closer to zero, as time and matter are characteristics of this phase of reality, which dissipates outward with each layer of the onion. (defining edge = 0 ether spin) What we are seeing could be essentially happening now. The "piece" of light may have experienced many years, but the trip could be very quick, our time. To time travel or warp space I might consider learning to de-spin myself. (phase out my mass) Good luck trying to design a propulsion system to drag around a space-time locality. (its like trying to move a balloon by shooting a squirt gun from within) To find out about all of this, I recommend studying history. I'd look in the book of life. (or holy grail etc.) Brain waves just might carry decipherable data. I'd start looking on some part of the spectra said to be unusable, due to all the background noise. (4+ billion humans?) I'd totally isolate myself, record me thinking DOG backwards, and learn to read what I got. (Microsoft Holy Grail card for Pentium!) Next, concluding that my thoughts were recorded on a non time-bound media, the ether, and that it is I who move forward (in time). I would try to temporarily locally reverse the flow, (of time, which I'd start looking for as flowing opposite magnetism, pole to pole. [Why not?]) perhaps by passing a LARGE, FLAT DC current through a two foot diameter. coil or choke or something, and seeing what I could get with my machine's receiver next to it. If you don't think you'll live to see it, consider this: QUIT PUTTING THE REPRODUCTIVE KEYS OF OTHER LIFE IN YOUR BODY! All of life's data could be written on the wind, (ether) not just our thoughts. DNA could be a little receiver or file access code. By eating SEEDS, we could be jamming our reception, or receiving plant instructions. Try eating seed bearing fruit. Maybe those Greek or biblical guys did live hundreds of years. I'm curios to see what they did and ate. Don't worry if your hair stops growing. (Maybe we don't need to eat at all, the cosmos are formed from nothing, and that is creating matter! I only need enough to bounce around. Where did the household concept 'immortal' come from? Wheat is a weed, it is programmed to pull from the soil, reproduce like hell, and then die) Warning about writing to the past: I had a little dream of being in a world, in the near parallel future, lying along a path of history which we have diverged from. There were; twelve telepathic, glowing beings, who looked like an Oscar award and who had always been, a dark one who looked like us, and then myself. The dark one was in the process of making the others into gods, (he had to teach them what that meant) by "advising" them in their past. Basically, he manipulated them into reproducing, and raising their children on his seed. He said that the little ones who looked different were a sub-species, meant to provide service. He carefully combed through history, rewriting it in his favor, pulling like a weed anything that compromised his control. He enticed recruits by sending them his visions, saying that there was immortality at the end of the road for only twelve souls: kill or be killed. The amount of control he could exert was finite, though, as at every change he made, a void would appear in our reality. The universe one day ended 100 meters from us: it seemed odd, but we couldn't remember how else it should be. Then some of the twelve were no more. Finally, when he could prune no more, and reality stopped just beyond his fingertips, he stepped through his portal to the past, to bask, over and over, in all that he had created. I made a few more changes, and lost my body, existing only on the wind. MORAL: Its very possible to eliminate from your reality the souls whose will's are not in harmony with yours (Golden Rule - treat others as you wish to be treated) I.E., you could end up along a lonely thread of time with murderers or flowery brown-nosers for playmates. (its not eternal, there's more than one way back) Accepting rides to the past: Once here, the one who looks like us sells rides, he can make you a Prince, or a Queen, or you can live as a god in ancient Greece. Go ahead, repeat the third grade as often as you like, Adam henry. I Hope you like inspecting your socks. Careful though, if he likes your work, but thinks you're getting wise, he can direct you to cross paths with your old self, and you'll vanish as you rewrite your own course of history, none the wiser. As we pass the point along the parallel line where he stepped back in time, his hierarchy will lose its direction. He can still make changes while he's here, its just that that is work, and with every 'adjustment', this becomes less the world he cultivated, which loosens his grip, and his organization is suddenly one branch less. But he can't see the change. The basic nature of man is good. He had to apply his hand to achieve his world. As he now tightens his hand to retain what he built, the more sand slips through his fingers. How about public computer access to the I.R.S. ? Its our country, our money, and they're spending it on us, RIGHT? Imagine this: Washington marks the next cost at 8, IRS collects 10, gives 5 to congress, and just absolutely buries 5. Congress borrows 2. The banks are making, what, a 30% margin (interest) on our government? Big corporations are ecstatic if they can do a 10% margin. What do the banks do with it? Hold some on a carrot to the world, sure, but mostly, bury it. WHY? Food production is 2% GNP?, construction 6% ? 14 hours to build your auto? The people are spending all of their time to buy back a tenth of what they produce. Have we been deceived? If we are more efficient, why is it getting harder to get by? What if the point is just to keep the people busy making widgets? In that other reality, I shouted to the twelve, "its chaos!" They said, "no, its order." He defined chaos as that which is he was not able to control. Rain forest: The problem could be that all the water in its canopy would hide the location of an indigenous people who have no language. (telepathic; and 'vanishing' the closest knowledge of death) (think of the spine as a transceiver, if it is on the ground and pointed up, you can locate it from above) These people are probably naive as children, but very, very tough to kill. Also, They should be able to tell you stories about the dark one that I talk about. They can hear him. I think that Ham and world band radio old timers might have a story to tell on this. These people would be on a different frequency than us as they aren't eating seeds. Famine relief: When I make my diet almost all whole wheat, I get a huge belly, lose muscle mass, sleep A LOT, and get sick. When I eat only fresh fruit, I get more energy, a Hollywood-flat belly, and need a lot less sleep. UN. Peace Keeping; There is fighting and killing all over. The troops go in when there is no bread on the shelf. (its OK to kill each other, just make sure there is enough to eat.) Somalia: What is disturbing is energetic, gun carrying, three foot tall sixteen year-olds, who eat nothing but some roots that they suck on. It is not so much that their growth is stunted, it is that they aren't dying at a rate of 50 of 60 years per life. Women with children, Babes in arms: Historical references to women and children as a single unit could mean that infants were not cut from the umbilical cord. (and hence, were not breast fed) I think that there may be some very interesting results to this, such as mother-child telepathy, and blue blooded infants. There are examples of this practice in the aquatic mammal kingdom to investigate. That guy is the master of illusion, and the ultimate liar. He tells it first, and then just follows the thread of time in which the people are willing to buy it. (in which he can make it so) He'll play a poker face up until he thinks he's cornered, and then he'll whine, beg and grovel. All it means to him is that you're willing to live on the ground work that he has laid, that is, that he was right, and he didn't over play his hand, and he won't need to go back and try another thread of time. You have ultimate control over your destiny, just don't live along a path that leads to a reality in which you don't want to be a part of.
There is a benchmark program called COMPTEST said CYRIX CPUs have a bug so they cannot run the program. Also may be NeXTSTEP 486? regards,
How can car be any good that has S N A C U D N E written on the back with crooked letters as if a 2-year-old had written it? Hehhehehehahaha! (About as silly as Crysler's attemps to make the label on the back of some of their other cars appear like they are Mercedes.) Sorry, I couldn't resist...
Car and Driver rated the 325is (1988) at 7.2 0-60 , 1/4 at 15.2 (after 30k miles) last time I checked 8#}. Automobile magazine rated new 325is 1/4 mile@16.2. Gee , aint quotiin funner than the dickens! Sounds like we need a race. I'll let you have the newer version. Can someone out there lend me a 1988 325is for a day 8-]. I wont hurt it, I promise.
(Reasoning pertinent to believing Xians deleted for space) It strikes me, for no apparent reason, that this is reversible. I.e., if I had proof that there existed a hell, in which I would be eternally punished for not believing in life, would that make me a Xian? (pardon my language) _Bloody_hell_no_! ...Of course, being merely a reversal of your thinking, this doesn't add anything _new_ to the debate, but... A point very well taken, IMNSHO.
Wrong on both accounts. No one is a "rioter" until they participate in a "riot", which is unlikely to happen, now. Most of the *people* in L.A. are likely to have gotten up early to listen to the court announcement. Sorry to disappoint you, but this seems unlikely. I don't think he was told. However, his statement was still appropriate. Jury duty is a solemn duty to be taken seriously. It is not meant to be a source of pride or instant fame. Well, the many *people* who got up early to go to the court to hear the verdict found that justice was served. Given your dire and cynical predictions, I imagine that it is you who will be surprised. :-)
I would like to keep track of X development on: - A/UX - ULTRIX - OpenWindows Currently I cannot use the newsgroup comp.windows.x and would like to use the Email based info. Thanks, Folkert Boonstra
Personally, I follow the no alcohol rule when I'm on a bike. My view is that you have to be in such a high degree of control that any alcohol could be potentially hazardous to my bike! If I get hurt it's my own fault, but I don't want to wreck my Katana. I developed this philosophy from an impromptu *experiment*. I had one beer at 6:00 in the evening and had volleyball practice at 7:00. I wasn't even close to leagle intoxication, but I couldn't perform even the most basic things until 8:30! This made me think about how I viewed alcohol and intoxication. You may seem fine, but your reactions may be affected such that you'll be unable to recover from hitting a rock or even just a gust of wind. I greatly enjoy social drinking but, for me, it just doesn't mix with riding.
So, it's okay to use civilians for cover if you're attacking soldiers in your country. (Of course, many of those attacking claim that they aren't Lebanese, so it's not their country.) Got it. I think. Hmm. This is confusing. Could you perhaps repeat your rules explaining exactly when it is permissible to use civilians as shields? Also please explain under what conditions it is permissible for soldiers to defend themselves. Also please explain the particular rules that make it okay for terrorists to launch missiles from Lebanon against Israeli civilians, but not okay for the Israelis to try to defend themselves against those missiles.
My impression -- it's not an area I've played with much -- is that the much-beloved NE567 is basically obsolete. If you want to detect a 1kHz tone, set a switched-capacitor filter chip to that frequency, feed your input to it, and see if anything comes out the other end. The NE567 was what you used when good clean bandpass filters were hard to do; nowadays they're easy, and the results are better.
You may find it useful. (This is a repost. The original sender is at the bottom.) -------------------cut here-------------------------------------------------- Article 39994 of rec.motorcycles: Path: scrumpy!bnrgate!corpgate!news.utdallas.edu!hermes.chpc.utexas.edu!cs.ute exas.edu!swrinde!mips!pacbell.com!iggy.GW.Vitalink.COM!widener!eff!ibmpc cug!pipex!unipalm!uknet!cf-cm!cybaswan!eeharvey From: eeharvey@cybaswan.UUCP (i t harvey) Newsgroups: rec.motorcycles Subject: Re: Best way to lock a bike ? Message-ID: <861@cybaswan.UUCP> Date: 15 Jul 92 09:47:10 GMT References: <1992Jul14.165538.9789@usenet.ins.cwru.edu> Lines: 84 These are the figures from the Performance Bikes lock test, taken without permission of course. The price is for comparison. All the cable locks have some sort of armour, the chain locks are padlock and chain. Each lock was tested for a maximum of ten minutes (600 secs) for each test: BJ Bottle jack CD Cutting disc BC Bolt croppers GAS Gas flame The table should really be split into immoblisers (for-a-while) and lock-to-somethings (for-a-short-while) to make comparisons. Type Weight BJ CD BC GAS Total Price (kg) (sec) (sec) (sec) (sec) (sec) (Pounds) ======================================================================== ========= 3-arm Folding .8 53 5 13 18 89 26 Cyclelok bar Abus Steel-o- Cable 1.4 103 4 20 26 153 54 flex Oxford Cable 2.0 360 4 32 82 478 38 Revolver Abus Diskus Chain 2.8 600 7 40 26 675 77 6-arm Folding 1.8 44 10 600 22 676 51 Cyclelok bar Abus Extra U-lock 1.2 600 10 120 52 782 44 Cobra Cable 6.0(!) 382 10 600 22 1014 150 (6ft) Abus closed Chain 4.0 600 11 600 33 1244 100 shackle Kryptonite U-lock 2.5 600 22 600 27 1249 100 K10 Oxford U-lock 2.0 600 7 600 49 1256 38 Magnum Disclock Disc .7 n/a 44 n/a 38 1282 43 lock Abus 58HB U-lock 2.5 600 26 600 64 1290 100 Mini Block Disc .65 n/a 51 n/a 84 1335 50 lock ======================================================================== ========= Pretty depressing reading. I think a good lock and some common sense about where and when you park your bike is the only answer. I've spent all my spare time over the last two weeks landscaping (trashing) the garden of my (and two friends with bikes) new house to accommodate our three bikes in relative security (never underestimate how much room a bike requires to manouver in a walled area :( ). Anyway, since the weekend there are only two bikes :( and no, he didn't use his Abus closed shackle lock, it was too much hassle to take with him when visiting his parents. A minimum wait of 8 weeks (if they don't decide to investigate) for the insurance company to make an offer and for the real haggling to begin. Abus are a German company and it would seem not well represented in the US but very common in the UK. The UK distributor, given in the above article is: Michael Brandon Ltd, 15/17 Oliver Crescent, Hawick, Roxburgh TD9 9BJ. Tel. 0450 73333 The UK distributors for the other locks can also given if required. Don't lose it Ian
Is there aything available for X similar to QuicKeys for the Macintosh -- something that will allow me to store and playback sequences of keystrokes, menu selections, and mouse actions - directing them towards another application? If so, could someone send me information on its availability -- and if not, how hard do we think it might be to send input to other X applications and, hopefully, deal with their responses appropriately? (If an application is going to take a few seconds to process I probably have to wait for it to complete before sending another command.) thanks,
I have a basic Apple IIgs system that I need to sell. Everything comes with original boxes and documentation, and is in excellent condition. Make an offer; I'll consider anything: Apple IIgs 1 meg 3.5" drive 13" AppleColor RGB monitor keyboard/mouse/mousepad/dustcovers/1200 baud Applemodem/random other worthless stuff. Here's a list of the games/apps: Games: Applications: BattleChess System Disk Defender of the Crown System Tools IIGS Arkanoid II WordPerfect Bubble Ghost Appleworks Shadowgate Writer's Choice elite Balance of Power Draw Plus Marble Madness Copy II Plus Zany Golf ProTERM communications software Chessmaster 2100 If interested, contact: sunshine@cco.caltech.edu
It is called 'The Justice'. We also demand that the x-Soviet Armenian Government admit its responsibility for the Turkish and Kurdish Genocide, render reparations to the Muslim people, and return the land to its rightful owners. The recognition of the Genocide has become an issue which cannot be delayed further, and it is imperative that artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed. Are you the 'truelove' or 'falselove' of 'Arromdian' of the ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangle? "If Turks had behaved like Christians to use force to convert to Islam the nations which they brought under their power, to which no one could have opposed, today there would be no Eastern problem. But Turks did not do so. They obeyed the word of the Koran to permit everybody "to worship in their own way" centuries before Frederick the Great pronounced his famous dictum. Thus, in an age when the Christian Europe itself shed Christian blood and when people in Europe enjoyed inflicting inhuman tortures upon those whose beliefs differed from theirs, the Ottoman Empire became the sole country where the inquisition did not exist, where deaths at the stake were unheard of and where accusations of witchcraft were not made. And the barbarian (!) Turkey was the only country where the Jews persecuted and chased away everywhere by the Christians, could find asylum. These facts demonstrate that Muslim countries provided spiritually far better living conditions than Christian countries."[1] "The Turks, who are a conquering nation, did not Turkify the nations that came under their rule; instead, they respected their religions and traditions. It was a stroke of luck for Romania to live under Turkish rule instead of Russian or Austrian rule. Because otherwise there would not have been a Romanian nation today" (Popescu Ciocanel). "Turks rule over people under their administration only externally, without interfering with their internal structures. On account of this, the autonomy of minorities in Turkey is better and more complete than any in the most advanced European countries."[2] "...human beings hate each other on account of religious differences. This flaw is older than Islam and Christianity. But there has never been any examples of this adjuration in Turkey because Turks never oppress anybody on account of his religion. If enmity on the basis of religion had been such a case of simple contempt among us too, or if it did not keep translating itself into action, many nations in our Europe would probably have considered themselves happy!" (A. de Mortraye).[3] "Turkey never became a scene for religious terror or for the cruelty of the inquisition. On the contrary, it served as an asylum for the unfortunate victims of Christian fanaticism. If you look into history, you will see that in the fifteenth century thousands of Jews who were expelled from Spain and Portugal found such a good asylum in Turkey that their descendants have been living there very calmly all through these approximately three hundred years, and are only forced to defend themselves in some countries against the cruelty of Christians, especially that of the Orthodoxes. No Jew is able to appear in public during Easter celebrations in Athens, even today. In Turkey, however, if the Israelites are insulted by the Greek and Armenian communities, local courts immediately take them under their protection." "In that vast and calm country of the sultan, all religions and nations are living together peacefully. Although the mosque is superior to the church and the synagogue, it does not replace them. Because of this, the Catholic sect is more free in Istanbul and Smyrna compared with Paris and Lyon. In addition to the fact that no law in Turkey prohibits the open-air ceremonies of this sect, neither does any law imprison its cross in the church. While the dead are being taken to the graves, a long line of priests bear processional candles and chant Catholic hymns. When all the priests in all the churches in the Galata and Beyoglu districts go into the streets and form clerical processions during the Eucharist celebrations, chanting hymns and bearing their crosses and religious banners, a detachment of soldiers escorts them which forces even the Turks to stand in respect around the group of priests." (A. Ubicini).[4] [1] Ah. Djevat, "Yabancilara Gore Eski Turkler," 3rd ed. (Istanbul, 1978), pp. 70-71. [2] Ibid., p.91. [3] Ibid., pp. 214-215. [4] Ibid., pp. 215-216. Serdar Argic
I just installed a Motorola XC68882RC50 FPU in an Amiga A2630 board (25 MHz 68030 + 68882 with capability to clock the FPU separately). Previously a MC68882RC25 was installed and everything was working perfectly. Now the systems displays a yellow screen (indicating a exception) when it check for the presence/type of FPU. When I reinstall an MC68882RC25 the system works fine, but with the XC68882 even at 25 MHz it does not work. The designer of the board mentioned that putting a pullup resistor on data_strobe (470 Ohm) might help, but that didn't change anything. Does anybody have some suggestions what I could do? Does this look like a CPU-FPU communications problem or is the particular chip dead (it is a pull, not new)? Moreover, the place I bought it from is sending me an XC68882RC33. I thought that the 68882RC33 were labeled MC not XC (for not finalized mask design). Are there any MC68882RC33?
I don't understand this last statement about the '90Vanagon...Our '90Vanagon Owner's Manual RECOMMENDS 20W50 !!
: >Compiled from the last five Defensive Average reports, here are the career : >DAs for the individual players in the reports. Stats are courtesy of : >Sherri Nichols. Players are listed in descending order. : And some comments, with some players deleted. : >Third Basemen : >------------- : >Leius, Scott ---- ---- ---- .653 .680 0.672 : Looks good. Too bad he's moving to short. : >Pagliarulo, Mike .631 ---- .575 .744 ---- 0.649 : This is an interesting line. His 1988 figure was slightly below average. : His 1990 was pathetic, and his 1991 was the next best year by anybody. Part of : that may be his mobility. 1988 was with the Yankees. 1990 was with the : Padres, who appear to have a rotten infield. 1991 was with the Twins, and : judging by Leius and Gaetti, the Metrodome may be a good place to play : third. Gaetti, Gary .616 .638 .655 .632 ---- 0.637 Apologies if I don't know what I'm talking about :-), but as a Twins fan, I like to think they have good players in any park. Not sure if I remember completely or not, but I think Gaetti played with the Twins in '87 for the world series, and again in '88 (note that's his lowest of the 4). I believe the next 3 (or at least the last two) were played with the Angels. Lots of factors make a player excell... I hate it when so many use the dome. It may not be ideal, but nice to comfortably enjoy baseball and football even when it's snowing and raining. -Craig
There are a lot of people running around saying "God told me this" and "God told me that" these days. Some people really have heard God, and others heard their glands. Mario Murrillo mentioned this in a sermon once. He said someone told him, "The Lord gave me a song." He said that it was the worst song he had ever heard. "I know why he gave you that song," Murillo said, "He didn't want it anymore." But God does still speak to His people today, and the idea is contrary to the idea of a closed cannon. Ireneaus wrote about all the gifts of the Spirit in the church of His day (2nd and 3rd century) and he was one of the first to put forth a New Testament cannon, which was almost identical to the one we have today. He believed in a closed cannon. Many prophets prophesied prophecies which were not recorded in the Scriptures. For example, one prophet in Kings, whose name starts with an "M" who prophecied that the king would lose a battle. That is the only prophecy he gave recorded in Scripture, and we no that he had given other prophecies because the king complained before he heard the prophecy, "He never prophesies anything good about me." Yet only one little paragraph of all of his lifetime of prophecies are recorded in Scripture. There are numerous examples. Barnabas was a prophet, Acts says, before he was even sent out as an apostle. Yet his writings are not recorded in Scripture. Only two of Agabus prophecies are mentioned in Scripture. He was already a prophet before he gave them. So prophecy may be genuine and from God, but that does not make it Scripture. I don't know about translations of Scripture, but I am familiar with prophecies that give applications for Scripture. There are also similar examples in the Bible. Several times Peter interprets prophecies in a seemingly prophetic way, for example, "And his bishoprick let another take" concerning Judas office. A clearer example can be found in Matthew 24. Jesus is prophesying about what will happen before His return and He quotes a passage out of Joel about the sun being darkened and the moon turning to blood. So Scriptural prophecy can be used in later prophecy. Sometimes this sort of thing can cross over into being a word of knowledge, but gifts of the Spirit seem to overlap. Words of knowledge and wisdom can overlap. The word of knowledge and prophecy can overlap. Interpretation of tounges is very similar to prophecy. Healings are often considered miracles. So sometimes the distinction between gifts is a bit hazy. Imho, it doesn't usually matter that much if we are able to label a phenomenon, as long as we recognize them as the work of the Spirit, and use them according to His leading.
xIn article <1qgi8eINNhs5@skeena.ucs.ubc.ca> yiklam@unixg.ubc.ca (Yik Chong Lam) x>Hello, x> x> Does anyone know how to take out the bolt under the engine x>compartment? Should I turn clockwise or counter? I tried any kind x>of lubricants, WD-40,etc, but I still failed! x> Do you think I can use a electric drill( change to a suitable x>bit ) to turn it out? If I can succeed, can I re-tighten it not too x>tight, is it safe without oil leak? x xAssuming you don't have a Russian car with opposite threads, then xyou turn counterclockwise. I would get some professional xhelp here, you may not have located the draing plug and xactually be trying to loosen something else. x xCraig x> x> x>Thank you very much in advance------ Winson x> This reminds me of the first time my cousin did an oil change on his car. He crawled under, removed a bolt, drained the fluid, replaced the bolt, then carefully poured in 5 quarts of oil. Didn't bother to check the dip stick, just drove off. Didn't get too far till me found out that he'd drained the 4-speed trans and dumped an extra 5 quarts into the engine.:( MORAL: As Craig said don't be ashamed to get some *in person* help the first time. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mack Costello <mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil> Code 65.1 (formerly 1720.1) David Taylor Model Basin, Carderock Division Hq. NSWC ___/-\____ Bethesda, MD 20084-5000 Phone (301) 227-2431 (__________>|
#The fact that she was wearing a miniskirt with no underwear was #presented as evidence that she was a prostitute, and the court #apparently found this compelling. Ah, I know women who wear miniskirts without wearing underwear, and they are not prostitutes. #Because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the #Marines were engaged in self-defense. Got it, knucklehead? Gee, Both Clayton and Kaldis engaging in ad hominem arguments. I presented evidence that what you said is *NOT* what the judge ruled. Provide your evidence. Repeating a false claim is not evidence.
I think he is trying to mislead people. In cases where race information is sought, it is completely voluntary (the census possibly excepted).
Considering that Clinton received a draft notice and got out of it (he admits it) the political feasibility of him abolishing it is not something he would be inclined to risk any extra exposure on. If you read Aviation Week, the C-5 line can be reopened and the C-5s would be delivered a year earlier and cost a billion less for the program. Politically, though, the C-17 is popular pork. Agreed. Congress took money from NASA and FHA to fund the second Seawolf. The shipyards are still building Los Angeles Class submarines and there is a lack of ASW foes to contend with. The Navy is considering reducing the number of attack subs to 40 (Navy Times) and that would entail getting rid of or mothballing some of the current Los Angeles class. Politically, General Dynamics is in Connecticut and we will get Seawolf subs whether we need them or not. In addition, more bases need to be closed. Probably Long Beach Naval Station and others. The Navy is talking about three main bases on each coast being required to home port a total fleet of 320 ships. The question is whether Les Aspin and Clinton will be able to face down a pork happy Congress.
Take up residence in a fantasy world.
My little Nash has sat for about a year (had been running), but now I must move a long distance and there are too many things to carry with me. Here are the details of the car: 1958 Hardtop--Exterior condition: Rocker panels rusted out at weld points, no rust at typical spots like door hinge mounting points, back battery box, etc. Missing front bumper, front pan dented up, one weld popped in front. This is for the most part a solid, restorable automobile. Interior Condition: Missing original steering wheel, has one of the smaller aftermarket wheels, seats need reupholstered, general fair condition. Mechanical Condition: Had been running, but now does not want to start...needs new rings (which I have) also have extra parts such as complete long block, extra steering shaft, etc. For a car that has not been touched since 1958, it is in solid shape. It will obviously need some work, but will make a good project. PRICE: Well, this is a tough one, I would like to get around 800.00, but will consider any serious offers by individuals willing to come and get it. If you have things to trade such as tools, toys, cameras, comics, cards, etc., anything easily movable to Florida, I may consider that as well. Hit <r>, or my e-mail address is Ellis.15@osu.edu (614) 777-0791 home (leave message) Thanks
tes: Did anyone think that Texas would have the top two home run leaders at a given point in the season and neither one would be Jose Canseco? Steve []
I don't like this comment about "Typical" thinking. You could state your interpretation of Exodus without it. As I read Exodus I can see a lot of killing there, which is painted by the author of the bible in ideological/religious colors. The history in the desert can be seen as an ethos of any nomadic people occupying a land. That's why I think it is a great book with which descendants Arabs, Turks and Mongols can unify as well.
Well thank you dennis for your as usual highly detailed and informative posting. The question i have about the proton, is could it be handled at one of KSC's spare pads, without major malfunction, or could it be handled at kourou or Vandenberg? Now if it uses storables, then how long would it take for the russians to equip something at cape york? If Proton were launched from a western site, how would it compare to the T4/centaur? As i see it, it should lift very close to the T4.
[blah blah blah] let's create a new group: rec.autos.CR-is-right-no-its-not-yes-it-is-oh-yeah- my-father-can-lick-your-father-....... :-)
I don't know where YOU live, but this is not the case nationawide. Perhaps your state or municipality has put together the funds to do so, but in my area and most areas where I know people, immunizations cost $$$. Sorry to shatter your stereotypes.
fix the table in .../X11R5/mit/server/ddx/sun/ or use xmodmap(1). put stty pass8; setenv LC_CTYPE iso_8859_1; setenv LESSCHARSET latin1 in your .login. the first prevents the stripping of bit 7. the second sets the locale. the third makes less(1) show the character instead of the octal representation. rj
Huh? Did this guy just invent wreck.motorcycles? Curious minds want to know.
Does anyone have any Russian Contacts (Space or other) or contacts in the old USSR/SU or Eastern Europe? Post them here so we all can talk to them and ask questions.. I think the cost of email is high, so we would have to keep the content to specific topics and such.. Basically if we want to save Russia and such, then we need to make contacts, contacts are a form of info, so lets get informing. == Michael Adams, nsmca@acad3.alaska.edu -- I'm not high, just jacked
When the Lunar Society's $500M estimate of the cost of a lunar colony was mentioned at Making Orbit, somebody asked Jerry Pournelle "have you talked to Bill Gates?". The answer: "Yes. He says that if he were going to sink that much money into it, he'd want to run it -- and he doesn't have the time." (Somebody then asked him about Perot. Answer: "Having Ross Perot on your board may be a bigger problem than not having the money.")
Hey, I'm a "Macho Real Man" and I DO read it. So I can criticize it all I want, especially since I pay for the publication. (They accept no outside advertising, don't you know....) Relying on Consumer Reports to pick your automobiles is like letting Field & Stream select your living room furniture.
If the attack was justified or not is at least debatable. But this is not the issue. The issue is that you were cheering DEATH. Read again your original article. You find Israeli government responsible for those dead soldiers, that's a reasonable (debatable) point, but feel satisfaction from dead bodies is NOT REASONABLE by any standards. No matter how you try to justify it. I may understand your frustration against israeli occupation in S Lebanon. But no matter what you say, I can not understand your satisfaction for dead bodies. I have a question for you. Let's assume a bosnian village, inhabited by serbs untill a few (10-20) years ago, and later taken over by bosnian muslims (the means are not very peaceful). Now, do you enjoy serbs coming and killing all (armed) bosnian muslims ? I would not enjoy, but I would not enjoy ANY dead bodies - israelis, lebanese or bosnians.
He'd have to go a far ways to run things down as bad as Reagan and Bush did. We didn't have riots but Bush got dumped out on his spotty Behind. We'll see in 4 years. Pope Charles Slack in our time! ?s
Included in thas sale is a Cover . THe cover is not sold separately. The trailer is not being sold.
: : Wild and fanciful claims require greater evidence. If you state that : one of the books in your room is blue, I certainly do not need as much : evidence to believe than if you were to claim that there is a two headed : leapard in your bed. [ and I don't mean a male lover in a leotard! ] Keith, If the issue is, "What is Truth" then the consequences of whatever proposition argued is irrelevent. If the issue is, "What are the consequences if such and such -is- True", then Truth is irrelevent. Which is it to be?
The title says it all. Contact me via EMAIL if you would can help me out... Mike Harpe University of Louisville P.S. I KNOW IT IS DISCONTINUED. I want someone who would like to sell an old copy.
Eric, send me your email address, I lost it! I've reconsidered!
Here is a press release from the Reserve Officers Association. Reserve Officers Say Demographics Ignored in Nominations to Close Naval, Marine Reserve Centers To: National Desk, Defense Writer Contact: Herbert M. Hart of the Reserve Officers Association of the United States, 202-479-2258 WASHINGTON, April 13 /U.S. Newswire/ -- The Reserve Officers Association of the United States has alerted the Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission that the services failed to give sufficient weight to demographics in recommendations made to close 56 Naval and Marine Corps Reserve centers. In letters to the closure commission and to all 86 members of Congress with affected locations in their constituencies, including Sen. Sam Nunn (D-Ga.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, ROA charged that the developers of the Navy-Marine list ignored demographics of the civilian population, particularly prior service personnel. ROA's executive director, Maj. Gen. Evan L. Hultman, AUS (Ret.), suggested "concern that the only plausible alternative is that they are intentionally attempting to foreclose the Naval Reserve components from maintaining even today's relatively low level of participation in their parent service's Total Force of the future." He asked the commission "to remove from consideration all locations without sufficient and convincing demographic data to warrant approval of the requested action." "Only a few of the 56 Naval and Marine Corps Reserve installations on this list are large enough to have a significant impact on the community, if closed," wrote Hultman. "The major issue is the cumulative impact of moving or closing such a large percentage of the existing locations." Hultman reminded the commission, "The fact that the vast majority of the Reserve installations on this list do not come close to meeting the minimal requirements for consideration in this process certainly supports the thesis" that these actions are simply an attempt to foreclose a substantial role for the Navy and Marine Corps Reserve. ROA also noted "that at the end of the 1960s, when the number of Naval Reservists was approximately the same as today, there were 480 Naval Reserve facilities. If the Navy recommendations are approved, there will be less than 200 Naval Reserve facilities." Facilities on the list include seven Naval Air Stations ranging from South Weymouth, Mass., to Alameda, Calif., 28 Naval Reserve Centers in Macon, Ga., and Parkersburg, W.Va., to Missoula and Great Falls. Mont. Naval/Marine Corps Reserve Centers include four in San Francisco, Fort Wayne, Ind., Billings, Mont., and Abilene, Texas. A major Marine Reserve Center on the list is that at El Toro, Calif., plus six others. -30-
Of course; sorry for the misunderstanding. I was referring to the fact that far more aeronautical development took place in the '30's. For much of the '20's, the super-abundance of Jennies and OX-5 engines held down the industry. By 1926, many of the obsolete WWI aircraft had been retired and Whirlwind had their power/weight ratio and reliability up to the point where long-distance flights became practical. It's important to note that the Atlantic was flown not once but THREE times in 1927: Lindbergh, Chamberlin and Levine, and Byrd's _America_. "When it's time to railroad, you railroad." Not off the top of my head; I'll have to dig out my reference books again. However, I will say that the most common arrangement in Prince Henry the Navigator's Portugal was for the prince to put up part of the money and merchants to put up the rest. They profits from the voyage would then be shared. The problem is that the amount of prize money required to inspire a Moon Base is much larger than any but a handful of individuals or corporations can even consider putting up. The Kremer Prizes (human powered aircraft), Orteig's prize, Lord Northcliffe's prize for crossing the Atlantic (won in 1919 by Alcock and Brown) were MUCH smaller. The technologies required were within the reach of individual inventors, and the prize amounts were well within the reach of a large number of wealthy individuals. I think that only a gov't could afford to set up a $1B+ prize for any purpose whatsoever. Note that Burt Rutan suggested that NASP could be built most cheaply by taking out an ad in AvWeek stating that the first company to build a plane that could take off and fly the profile would be handed $3B, no questions asked.
I had the exactly same problem with my '70 Lesabre. It was also from Cal. What I did was go to the local junkyard and pick up a diaphragm from a '68 Lesabre with the same heater set up. It worked for me, but a little bit slow to change from vents to defogger. Better than nothing!
If anyone out there can help, I would greatly appreciate it. This christmas, I built a computer out of used parts for my Father-in-law. The disk drive that I installed was a Seagate 251-1 MFM. Anyway, he now he would like to put another HD into this system. I DON'T want to buy another MFM, the only reason why I used an MFM in the first place is that it was FREE. Would I need a special IDE HD controller? Also, if I do need a special IDE controller, where can I purchase one, & how much are they? Please send any responses to: lynn@vax1.mankato.msus.edu Thanks in advance,
Despite my trendy, liberal, feminist tendencies and the fact that I basically agree with what you are saying I will rebut: The basic question here is "how do I know what I am supposed to do?" This is true in every situation that comes up. Some people do not think about it at all and merely follow their impulses. I claim that is just as dangerous as "following authority". I could site sexually transmitted diseases, drug abuse, all manner of criminal activity, the savings and loan scandal, car accidents, eggs thrown at my house, all are examples of people not "following authority". I could easily argue that in the evil examples you gave the problem was a leader not following _his_ authority and doing what he wanted. Of course, where is the top of the chain? Therein lies our search. I don't think it's as simple as you are claiming. "Pressing need" is ambiguous. Should I recycle or not? Realize that I have four kids who, despite being very precocious of course, are very tiring with their constant lack of understanding the tremendous knowledge I wish to impart to them. Ahh! An ironic ending. The irony I was implying in my initial pithy retort to the bumper sticker cliche "Question Authority" was that I was questioning the authority of the person telling me to question authority. It seems there is a certain segment of society that finds meaning only in being different, only in rebelling, forsaking everything for the sake of freedom. I question their integrity and fortitude. There is another freedom that comes from doing a task correctly. Different people are at different levels of development in different areas. Part of the challenge of life is to find the right authorities to follow, we can't know everything about everything. Often when learning a new skill or subject I will follow the teacher, perhaps blindly. Only when I have learned enough to ask appropriate questions should I question him, only when I have developed my skills enough should I challenge him. Once again, how do I know when I get to those stages? If you have to be told to question authority, perhaps you shouldn't.
-> Does that mean that they're gonna bring back the Biscayne and Bel -> Air? Or how about the 210? george.howell%goucher@wb3ffv.ampr.org
Once, on Jeopardy, the category was "Jewish Sports Heros," believe it or not. The answer was, "This pitcher had four no-hitters with the Dodgers in the 60s." The contestant said, "Who is Hank Aaron?" Alex Trebek said something like, "I don't think Hank Aaron was a pitcher."
Smith Corona Typewriter for sale, Model SCM 70 electric. Great for forms, envelopes, labels, small things, etc. that you just can't do with your microcomputer. Built like a tank, but not big nor that heavy. A classic compact electric, with padded storage bag. No scratches, enamel paint chips or dents. Cloth ribbon, 2 colours. Will accept best offer near $70. (Selling for a friend, so these are her instructions not mine. RSVP to this account, though. Make any other offers anyways, I'll pass them along. A single sheet-feeder for the Macintosh Imagewriter II would be acceptable in trade, for example.) gld
If your buying a compact pickup do yourself a favor and wait a few months for the 1994 GMC sonoma. Magazines are saying it is day and night over the current truck. It's georgeous, solid, and fast (200hp Vortec 4.3 V-6). Should whip the Ranger in every area too (accept maybe payload). And always pick a GMC over a Chevy. GMC's are always so much better looking. Man, I miss the Comanche. Marty and Matt Owings '87 250 ninja type rider dudes "It's a feeling that we all wanna know and it's an obsession to some to keep the world in you rearview mirror while you try to run down the sun"
Hello everybody, I hope that I insert the right Options, so that my question is only distributed through out Germany, because my question is more or less country dependend. Now the question: Is there anybody who can tell my if (and of course where) there is a ftp-site/archie (or whatever) where DIN fonts for X are available. I am looking for fonts holding the specification: DIN 16 DIN 6776 DIN V 40950 Thanks in advance Juergen Schietke Research Insitute for Discrete Mathematics University of Bonn Nassestr. 2 5300 Bonn 1 (Germany)
Have you gotten an answer yet? Using your variables, this is what I would do: xterm -T "$HOST - $LOGNAME" -n "$HOST"
<. . .. : The next Sunday, the sermon was about Joshua 6 (where the Israelites : take Jericho and then proceed to massacre everybody there --- except : for Rahab, who had sheltered the spies). With those reports about : Bosnia in my mind, I felt uncomfortable about the minister saying that : the massacre (the one in Joshua) was right. But what really bothered : me was that, if I was going to try taking Christianity seriously, I : shouldn't be so troubled about the reports of "ethnic cleansing" in : Bosnia. Certainly, my sympathies shouldn't be with the Moslims. : Considering that the Bosnian Muslims are descendants of Christians : who, under Turkish rule, converted to Islam could the Serbs be doing : God's work? Perhaps it would be useful to ask whether those doing the ethnic cleansing could be said to be loving those they are killing in the very act of killing. Does it reflect the attitude of God, who sends rain to both the just and the unjust? If not, then Christians should be uncomfortable with it. Jesus gave his followers the law of love to follow and it is by exhibiting this that disciples will be known. Doctrinal (or political) correctness is not the standard, so I don't see why Christians should be moved against the Serbs because their ancestors converted from Christianity to Islam. It seems to me that as a Christian you _should_ be troubled by the ethnic cleansing. --
Is there any doubt that this is true? After a few down years, the A.L. East is back to where it was in the early eighties. With the emergence of the O's and the Yanks, it is far and away the best. While the N.L. West has the best team in baseball, and the Reds aren't bad either, they have nothing else. The Giants, Astros, and Padres all have talent, they do not have the all arounf teams that are found in the A.L. East. And the Dodgers just plain suck. As for the Rockies, who knows? The A.L. East has the defending champs, and although they lost a lot to free agency, Toronto is still one of the best in baseball. The Orioles have the preseason favorite to win the Cy Young in Mike Mussina, and you can never forget about Ripken. The signings of Harold Baines and Harold Reynolds don't hurt to much either, although I always liked Bill Ripken. While they let a lot go this summer (Randy Milligan, Joe Orsulak, Bill Ripken, Bob Milacki, Sam Horn, Storm Davis, and Craig Lefferts), they kept the heart of their team intact. My predicted finish: 1. Baltimore (Could be a biased opinion) 2. NY Yankees 3. Toronto 4. Milwaukee 5. Detroit 6. Boston 7. Cleveland (Would have been higher if not for the accident) Go O's!!!!!!!!
I don't know the exact meaning of UART, but I think it is something like Universal Arithmetic Receiver Transmitter. Normally, the older boards have a 8250 or 16450 UART on board. Those chips generate an IRQ for every char they received. The 16550 UART has an internal 16 byte buffer, so - with the right software installed - it generates an IRQ every 16 chars. If you ran dos, you don't need a 16550, because dos runs only ONE task at a time and the whole cpu-power could be used for the transfer. But if you are running a multitasking OS such as OS/2, Unix, etc. ( windows ? :-) ), the cpu cannot work the whole time with one task. The result are lost characters or broken transmissions because of timeouts. NO. The only diffrence is that internal modems have the UART on board, whereas external modems are connected to the computer over a serial port which has the UART on board. I use a Zyxel1496B with a 16550UART under COHERENT 4.0. I'm very satisfied with it but I think that nearly everyone is satisfied with his own modem. Michael
Why are the Red Sox in first place? Eight games into the season, they already have two wins each from Clemens and Viola. Clemens starts again tonight, on three days rest. What's up? Are the Sox going with a four-man rotation? Is this why Hesketh was used in relief last night? Hm.
# # > In Re:Syria's Expansion, the author writes that the UN thought # > Zionism was Racism and that they were wrong. They were correct # > the first time, Zionism is Racism and thankfully, the McGill Daily # > (the student newspaper at McGill) was proud enough to print an article # > saying so. If you want a copy, send me mail. # > # Was the article about zionism? or about something else. The majority # of people I heard emitting this ignorant statement, do not really # know what zionism is. They have just associated it with what they think # they know about the political situation in the middle east. # # So Steve: Lets here, what IS zionism? Assuming that you mean 'hear', you weren't 'listening': he just told you, "Zionism is Racism." This is a tautological statement.
Several years back one of the radar detectors manufacturers, in defiance to Virginia's law against radar detectors, passed out thousands of fake cardboard radar detectors at truck stops near the Virginia State lines. At that time there were no radar detector Detectors! I am not sure of the impact but I would imagine that enforcement of the law by visually sighting a radar detector became difficult - if not impossible! As I said earlier, efforts to throw out or eliminate the VA law against radar detectors has been in vain. In fact, effective Jan. 1, 1993, the fine for possession of a radar detector accessable to the driver of a vehicle in VA is now $250.00. I have noted an interesting anomality with my Alinco DR-100 2 meter ham transceiver.... It will make a *cheap* radar detector scream! I am not sure of the range, but it is obvious by the brake lights that it can be at least 50 feet at 50 watts! :-)
Sandberg is not particulary known for his stolen bases. What competition did Alomar have? Sandberg came in a year after Ripken, and the same year as Boggs, Gwynn, and the other magicians. So less attention was given to Sandberg. Alomar is the only one in his class to be worth a mediocre. Besides the numbers don't count. National league pitchers are much better pitchers. Larry on someone elses account --
I just love these posts from the ex-Soviet Union. Among the cars, dinette sets, video cameras, etc. every now and then an ad pops up for bee venom, RED OXIDE OF MERCURY, cobalt (100 tons minimum order), etc. Don't they have garage sales in Russia? :-)
Hi, Can anyone tell me the difference between ~30-pin and 72-pin Simms? I wish to get detailed information about the origin of these two different types of Simms, preferably a magazine review aricle. By the way, if there is a FAQ for this group which covers the Simms information, please also direct me to it. Any help/information would be very much appreciated. Sincerely,
henrik]Let me clearify Mr. Turkish; henrik]ARMENIA is NOT getting "itchy". SHE is simply LETTING the WORLD henrik] KNOW that SHE WILL NO LONGER sit there QUIET and LET TURKS get henrik] away with their FAMOUS tricks. Armenians DO REMEMBER of the TURKISH henrik] invasion of the Greek island of CYPRESS WHILE the world simply WATCHED. Esin Terzioglu] Your ignorance is obvious from your posting. Esin Terzioglu] 1) Cyprus was an INDEPENDENT country with Turkish/Greek inhabitants (NOT a Greek island like your ignorant posting claims) Esin Terzioglu] 2) The name should be Cyprus (in English) Esin Terzioglu] next time read and learn before you post. Aside from spelling , why is that you TURKS DO NOT want to admit your past MISTAKES ? You know TURKISH INVASION of CYPRUS was a mistake and too bad that U.N. DID NOT do anything about it. You may ask : mistake ? Yes, I would say. Why is that the GREEKS DID NOT INVADE CYPRUS ? My response to the "shooting down" of a Turkish airplane over the Armenian air space was because of the IGNORANT posting of the person from your Country. Turks and Azeris consistantly WANT to drag ARMENIA into the KARABAKH conflict with Azerbaijan. The KARABAKHI-ARMENIANS who have lived in their HOMELAND for 3000 years (CUT OFF FROM ARMENIA and GIVEN TO AZERIS BY STALIN) are the ones DIRECTLY involved in the CONFLICT. They are defending themselves against AZERI AGGRESSION. Agression that has NO MERCY for INOCENT people that are costantly SHELLED with MIG-23's and othe Russian aircraft.
In defense of the drivers, who are in the right lane. Here in the states, people simply do not expect when they are driving to be overtaken at a speed differential of 50+mph. I don't think this is because they are stupid (of course, there are exceptions), they are just programmed because of the 55mph limit. Do you (in the states) when you look in the rear-view ALWAYS calculate future positions of cars based on a 50+ speed differential. Dont get me wrong, I love to drive in the left lane fast but when I overtake cars who are on the right, I slow down a tad bit. If I were to rely on the judgement of the other car, to recognize the speed differential, I would be the stupid one.
I'd like to thank everyone who took the time to respond to my post about fighting my ticket. Many of you wrote to say that you have successfully fought and won your case in court. Others lost due to the cop outright lying to the judge about the circumstances surrounding your ticket, while one fellow lost because the judge just didn't appear to be in the mood for such foolishness. Several of you suggested that I obtain a book called "Fight Your Ticket". The general theme from those who said "go for it", was to be prepared. I should do as much research as possible, go back and review the scene, transcribe what happened to tape or paper, use any witnesses that may have been around, have a list of questions to ask the cop and/or the judge, and to be positive and assertive. I am innocent until proven guilty! <gulp> A few people suggested trying to get my court date changed, as this might trip up the arresting officer, he may not show up if the date is on his day off or if he feels/knows that he doesn't have a chance to win against you. One individual stated that an Officer could be an Expert Witness, and if he says I was speeding, then by damn, I was speeding. Another says that I must have been paced or clocked with a radar gun. Lots of good suggestions and ideas from you all. I'll let you know what happens after the big day! /-----------------------------------------------------------------------------\
: For all the problems technology has caused, your types have made : things even worse. Must we be reminded of the Inquisition, Operation : Rescue, the Ku Klux Klan, Posse Comitatus, the 700 Club, David Duke, Salem : Witch Trials, the Crusades, gay bashings, etc. : PLUS virtually each and every single war, regardless of the level of : technology, has had theistic organizations cheering on the carnage : (chaplains, etc.), and claiming that god was in favor of the whole ordeal. : Don't forget to pray for our troops! : This is really tedious. Every bad thing that's ever happened is because the malefactors were under the influence of religion - does anyone -really- believe that. I've seen it so often it must be a pretty general opinion in a.a, but I want to believe that atheists are really not THAT dishonest. Please, stick to the facts and, having accomplished that, interpret them correctly.
This sounds a bit high to me. Still higher accelerations have been endured *very briefly*, during violent deceleration. If we're talking sustained acceleration, I think 30-odd gees has been demonstrated using water immersion. I doubt that any of this generalizes to another order of magnitude.
Check with Kyocera America, Inc. 24 Prime Park Way, Suite 150 Natick, MA 01760 They are one of the largest manufacturers of IC packaging in the world. It sounds like you would be a good candidate for wafer probing or at least IC probing to test performance. HP, Cascade Microtech and Tektronix should be able to help you here. One note, testing at high frequency accurately can be an *expensive* business.
Alan Sepinwall writes George will do the only logical thing he can do when the Yanks' bullpen isn't performing -- fire the manager.
I would suggest skipping olwm and getting olvwm instead. This version of the olwm window manager implements a virtual desktop that I find really handy even on large monitors. This version is also available at export.lcs.mit.edu:/contrib/olvwm3.tar.Z. The README file also suggest getting the files in /contrib/xview3. In my case, I built the X Server first, Xview second, then olvwm. All of these were installed into /usr/X5. Once I verified the server worked correctly, I happily issued "rm -rf /usr/openwin/*". Using gcc 2.3.3 to build all of the above resulted in a windowing system that is, for all intents and purposes, identical to OpenWindows 3.0 and that is incredibly faster. There is a bit of tweaking you will have to do if you want things to work _exactly_ like OpenWindows, but not much.
We have plenty of computer labs where the computers are left on all the time. I don't see any shorter lifespan than the ones we have in the offices which does get turned off at the end of the day. In fact, some of the computers in the labs have outlived some of the same ones in the offices. But it goes both ways so can't conclude anything.
Did anyone notice the words "NOT FOR BASEBALL" printed on the picture of Joe Robbie Stadium in the Opening Day season preview section in USA Today? Any reason given for this? Also, I just noticed something looking at the Nolan Ryan timeline in the preview. On 8/22/89, Rickey Henderson became Nolan's 5000th strikeout. On 6/11/90 he pitched his 6th no-hitter against Oakland. I believe the last out in the game was made by Rickey Henderson. And on 5/1/91, Nolan pitched his 7th no-hitter on the same day a certain someone stole his 939th base, which overshadowed it. It seems that Nolan is having a lot of publicity at Rickey's expense. IMO, Rickey deserves it, and it seems as most of the net agrees with me from what I've seen on it lately. They are both great players, but IMO, Nolan has outclassed Rickey, both in playing and more importantly, in attitude. Just my thoughts.
The tax protesters are legally correct, but they are put in jail anyway. The weakness of the governments legal position is shown by the fact that when someone protesting tax or gun laws on legal grounds gets a federal jury trial (very rare) the feds blatantly stack the jury, with the same old faces turning up time after time. However Teel should have mentioned that though his advice is legally sound, if you follow it you will probably wind up in jail.
Ann Jackson (ajackson@cs.ubc.ca) wrote on 5 May: I would like to submit the following which helped me enormously. If it has already been posted, I apologize. It seems that during the Middle Ages, it was customary for pastors to explain the Trinity to their parishoners by analogy to water. Water is water, but can exist in three forms--liquid, ice and vapor. Thus it is possible for one essence to exist in three forms. And recently, the pastor of my church drew an analogy, which I also found useful--A woman is often percieved by others in three ways, depending on their relationship to her--a mother, a wife and an employee in a business. Thus, it seems clear to me that the essence of God can subsist in the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit or, depending on one's particular need for Him.
I was not discussing "universal" definitions in this post, Mark. Please refrain from dragging in irrelevancies. Do you agree with my statement above about physicians being unqualified if they can't determine viability? And that's good enough for the law, Mark. So why do you keep whining that viability "isn't defined"? What purpose does your whining serve?
: I also have a DX2/66 and a Maxtor 212. I have a local bus IDE controller (generic) and I get : 985 KB/s. I tried swapping my local bus IDE controller for an ISA IDE controller and my : transfer rate went to 830 KB/s. The specs for this drive show a maximum platter to controller : transfer rate of 2.83 MB/s. I dont know how to get there from here. The local bus interface : got me a little, but certainly not as much as I had hoped. I am also looking for a way to What is the deal with the IDE transfer rates? Is anybody getting throughput anywhere close to the platter->controller rate? I haven't seen anything even close to the 5MB/sec limit of the IDE interface. These drives are 1:1 (non-interleaved), aren't they? Here are the rates I get: 1) sequential read (MSDOS C program that uses bios calls to read 64-sector blocks sequentially from outside (first) track inward) 8mhz bus 10mhz bus -------- --------- MAXTOR LXT340: 860KB/sec 976KB/sec QUANTUM LPS240: 862KB/sec 887KB/sec 2) disk buffer read (same C program, but re-reads the same block repeatedly so in effect is reading the RAM buffer on the drive) 8mhz bus 10mhz bus -------- --------- MAXTOR LXT340: 1046KB/sec 1212KB/sec QUANTUM LPS240: 1015KB/sec 1276KB/sec 3) CORETEST V2.7 transfer rate (seems to agree with (2) above) 8mhz bus 10mhz bus -------- --------- MAXTOR LXT340: 1051KB/sec 1224KB/sec QUANTUM LPS240: 1026KB/sec 1298KB/sec I managed to get hold of the QUANTUM LPS240AT product manual and it goes into excrutiating detail describing how the bits get from the platter, through the controller, and out the IDE interface. Nowhere do I see anything like "after the bits are whipped of the platter at high speed they sit around in a buffer to thaw before they are sent to the host" (even though I SWEAR that's whats happening ;->). Here are some relevent quotes from the manual: "Data is transferred from the disk to the read buffer at a rate of 3.75 MB/s maximum, 1.87MB/s minimum." (My calculations show 3121KB/sec maximum and 1578KB/sec minimum... disk spins at 4306 RPM with 87 sectors per track on the outside and 44 on the inside) "Single burst errors of up to 24 bits within one sector can be corrected 'on-the-fly', in real time as they occur, allowing a high degree of data integrity with no impact to the drive's performance." (I take this to mean error correction isn't the bottleneck) "For page-mode operations, the data-transfer rate to and from the buffer RAM is up to 10.0 MB/s. This high transfer rate allows the AT Interface IC to communicate over the AT bus at a data-transfer rate of 5.0 MB/s, while the DCS simultaneously controls disk-to-RAM transfers" ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ So the thing can even do it's cache pre-fetch WHILE it's sending the requested sector (it has 3 64KB read buffers for pre-fetching, I guess you could call that a cache :-|). So when I do a sequential read on the outer tracks, WHY am I getting a measly 862KB/sec when I should be getting around 3MB/sec??? Any of you hard-disk engineers out there know?
CONGRAULATIONS !!!! Your helmet just passed the Snell Test. Oh well, as least it looks ok now. Still, it may not save your head as well as before you dropped it. Mike
I did say *any* invader, didn't I? What do you want from me, perhaps a neural net design with all countries involved in Lebanon as its nodes? :-) (You are in Cognitive and Neural Systems)
I think this is a little inaccurate, based on Feynman's account of the software-development process *before* the standdown. Fred is basically correct: no sophisticated tools, just a lot of effort and painstaking care. But they got this one right *before* Challenger; Feynman cited the software people as exemplary compared to the engine people. (He also noted that the software people were starting to feel management pressure to cut corners, but hadn't had to give in to it much yet.) Among other things, the software people worked very hard to get things right for the major pre-flight simulations, and considered a failure during those simulations to be nearly as bad as an in-flight failure. As a result, the number of major-simulation failures could be counted on one hand, and the number of in-flight failures was zero. As Fred mentioned elsewhere, this applies only to the flight software. Software that runs experiments is typically mostly put together by the experimenters, and gets nowhere near the same level of Tender Loving Care. (None of the experimenters could afford it.)
The oclock widget was written using the SHAPE extension. You can do the same in your widgets. Few current widgets support SHAPE, so you'll have to subclass them to add that functionality.
The Chevrolet brothers were respected racers & test drivers for the Buick Co. when Durant was there. When the directors kicked Durant out of GM in 1910 he took Chevrolet and others with him. As mentioned before, they founded the successful Chevrolet company. A little-known fact is that the Chevrolet Co. actually took over GM! That was how Durant got back in charge of GM-- legally his new company Chevrolet Co. did the buying, and GM was a division of Chevrolet! After 1920 and into the Sloan era, GM shuffled things so that the GM board was superior, but there was always a degree of autonomy given the Chevy division, presumably because of the initial structure. (If you look at the organization chart for GM in Sloan's book, Chevy division reports directly to 14th floor, not through the "passenger car division" which covers Buick, Olds, Cadillac, and Oakland/Pontiac)
Archive-name: space/launchers Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:11 $ ORBITAL AND PLANETARY LAUNCH SERVICES The following data comes from _International Reference Guide to Space Launch Systems_ by Steven J. Isakowitz, 1991 edition. Notes: * Unless otherwise specified, LEO and polar paylaods are for a 100 nm orbit. * Reliablity data includes launches through Dec, 1990. Reliabity for a familiy of vehicles includes launches by types no longer built when applicable * Prices are in millions of 1990 $US and are subject to change. * Only operational vehicle families are included. Individual vehicles which have not yet flown are marked by an asterisk (*) If a vehicle had first launch after publication of my data, it may still be marked with an asterisk. Vehicle | Payload kg (lbs) | Reliability | Price | Launch Site (nation) | LEO Polar GTO | | | (Lat. & Long.) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ariane 35/40 87.5% Kourou (ESA) (5.2 N, 52.8 W) AR40 4,900 3,900 1,900 1/1 $65m (10,800) (8,580) (4,190) AR42P 6,100 4,800 2,600 1/1 $67m (13,400) (10,600) (5,730) AR44P 6,900 5,500 3,000 0/0 ? $70m (15,200) (12,100) (6,610) AR42L 7,400 5,900 3,200 0/0 ? $90m (16,300) (13,000) (7,050) AR44LP 8,300 6,600 3,700 6/6 $95m (18,300) (14,500) (8,160) AR44L 9,600 7,700 4,200 3/4 $115m (21,100) (16,900) (9,260) * AR5 18,000 ??? 6,800 0/0 $105m (39,600) (15,000) [300nm] Atlas 213/245 86.9% Cape Canaveral (USA) (28.5 N, 81.0W) Atlas E -- 820 -- 15/17 $45m Vandeberg AFB (1,800) (34.7 N, 120.6W) Atlas I 5,580 4,670 2,250 1/1 $70m (12,300) (10,300) (4,950) Atlas II 6,395 5,400 2,680 0/0 $75m (14,100) (11,900) (5,900) Atlas IIA 6,760 5,715 2,810 0/0 $85m (14,900) (12,600) (6,200) * Atlas IIAS 8,390 6,805 3,490 0/0 $115m (18,500) (15,000) (7,700) Delta 189/201 94.0% Cape Canaveral (USA) Vandenberg AFB Delta 6925 3,900 2,950 1,450 14/14 $45m (8,780) (6,490) (3,190) Delta 7925 5,045 3,830 1,820 1/1 $50m (11,100) (8,420) (2,000) Energia 2/2 100% Baikonur (Russia) (45.6 N 63.4 E) Energia 88,000 80,000 ??? 2/2 $110m (194,000) (176,000) H series 22/22 100% Tangeshima (Japan) (30.2 N 130.6 E) * H-2 10,500 6,600 4,000 0/0 $110m (23,000) (14,500) (8,800) Kosmos 371/377 98.4% Plestek (Russia) (62.8 N 40.1 E) Kosmos 1100 - 1350 (2300 - 3000) $??? Kapustin Yar [400 km orbit ??? inclination] (48.4 N 45.8 E) Long March 23/25 92.0% Jiquan SLC (China) (41 N 100 E) * CZ-1D 720 ??? 200 0/0 $10m Xichang SLC (1,590) (440) (28 N 102 E) Taiyuan SLC CZ-2C 3,200 1,750 1,000 12/12 $20m (41 N 100 E) (7,040) (3,860) (2,200) CZ-2E 9,200 ??? 3,370 1/1 $40m (20,300) (7,430) * CZ-2E/HO 13,600 ??? 4,500 0/0 $??? (29,900) (9,900) CZ-3 ??? ??? 1,400 6/7 $33m (3,100) * CZ-3A ??? ??? 2,500 0/0 $???m (5,500) CZ-4 4,000 ??? 1,100 2/2 $???m (8,800) (2,430) Pegasus/Taurus 2/2 100% Peg: B-52/L1011 (USA) Taur: Canaveral Pegasus 455 365 125 2/2 $10m or Vandenberg (1,000) (800) (275) * Taurus 1,450 1,180 375 0/0 $15m (3,200) (2,600) (830) Proton 164/187 87.7% Baikonour (Russia) Proton 20,000 ??? 5,500 164/187 $35-70m (44,100) (12,200) SCOUT 99/113 87.6% Vandenberg AFB (USA) Wallops FF SCOUT G-1 270 210 54 13/13 $12m (37.9 N 75.4 W) (600) (460) (120) San Marco (2.9 S 40.3 E) * Enhanced SCOUT 525 372 110 0/0 $15m (1,160) (820) (240) Shavit 2/2 100% Palmachim AFB (Israel) ( ~31 N) Shavit ??? 160 ??? 2/2 $22m (350) Space Shuttle 37/38 97.4% Kennedy Space (USA) Center Shuttle/SRB 23,500 ??? 5,900 37/38 $248m (28.5 N 81.0 W) (51,800) (13,000) [FY88] * Shuttle/ASRM 27,100 ??? ??? 0/0 (59,800) SLV 2/6 33.3% SHAR Center (India) (400km) (900km polar) (13.9 N 80.4 E) ASLV 150 ??? ??? 0/2 $???m (330) * PSLV 3,000 1,000 450 0/0 $???m (6,600) (2,200) (990) * GSLV 8,000 ??? 2,500 0/0 $???m (17,600) (5,500) Titan 160/172 93.0% Cape Canaveral (USA) Vandenberg Titan II ??? 1,905 ??? 2/2 $43m (4,200) Titan III 14,515 ??? 5,000 2/3 $140m (32,000) (11,000) Titan IV/SRM 17,700 14,100 6,350 3/3 $154m-$227m (39,000) (31,100) (14,000) Titan IV/SRMU 21,640 18,600 8,620 0/0 $???m (47,700) (41,000) (19,000) Vostok 1358/1401 96.9% Baikonur (Russia) [650km] Plesetsk Vostok 4,730 1,840 ??? ?/149 $14m (10,400) (4,060) Soyuz 7,000 ??? ??? ?/944 $15m (15,400) Molniya 1500kg (3300 lbs) in ?/258 $???M Highly eliptical orbit
; ;>Most people wave or return my wave when I'm on my Harley. ;>Other Harley riders seldom wave back to me when I'm on my ;>duck. Squids don't wave, or return waves ever, even to each ;>other, from what I can tell. ; ; When we take a hand off the bars we fall down! The problem is that Squids and BadAssBikers can't recognize each other's waves. When you're riding a cruiser, you "wave" by lifting two or three fingers of the left hand, without first removing that hand from the handlebar. When you're riding a crotch rocket, you lower the left hand to about ankle level, palm forward, and call that a wave. Generic bike riders actually seem to raise the hand entirely off the handlebar and wave it around, so it's easy to tell when they're waving.
To Andi, I have to disagree with you about the value of Israeli news sources. If you want to know about events in Palestine it makes more sense to get the news directly from the source. EVERY news source is inherently biased to some extent and for various reasons, both intentional and otherwise. However, the more sources relied upon the easier it is to see the "truth" and to discern the bias. Go read or listen to some Israeli media. You will learn more news and more opinion about Israel and Palestine by doing so. Then you can form your own opinions and hopefully they will be more informed even if your views don't change.
But waiiiiiit, isn't Nissan officially registering the car as far as government paperwork goes, Nissan Stanza Altima, to avoid costly and lengthy paperwork? I read this on the net a while ago, and someone actually may have said there's a little Stanza logo on the Altima somewhere. You *can* have it both ways :-) Spiros
(not that logic has anything to do with it, but...) I can see the liability of putting stickers on the car while it was moving, or something, but it's the BDI that chooses to start and then drive the car in a known unsafe condition that would (seem to be) liable. Furthermore, they would have had the last chance to avoid an unsafe situation, which is an additional factor in attributing "blame". Anyway, stickers on the window are less effective... no one has any problem taking a blade to a window to remove a stubborn sticker, but it's a different story with that that nice paint job on the door.... *jeff*
I just bought an actix graphics engine 32 plus with 2 megs. I am not impressed... I have been having all sorts of problems with the board. Various lock-ups in windows, problems with the screen not centering, no flexibilty in choosing synch rates for a monitor, buggy windows drivers, lack of 1024x768x64k driver, If anyone else has one of these cards, please e-mail me... Looks like i'm going to try the ati ultra plus...
Chris, solid job at discussing the inherent Nazism in Mr. Davidsson's post. Oddly, he has posted an address for hate mail, which I think we should all utilize. And Elias, Wie nur dem Koph nicht alle Hoffnung schwindet, Der immerfort an schalem Zeuge klebt?
Yes some radar detectors are less detectable by radar detector detectors. ;-)
OK. Instead of holding an auction, I have decided to compute prices for each comic (after many suggestions). These are the most reasonable prices I can give (not negotiable). If you would like to purchase a comic (or group), simply email me with the title and issue #'s you want. The price for each issue is shown beside each comic. First come, first served!!! There is no more bidding. Meet my price and it is yours. I can be reached at this email address: 02106@chopin.udel.edu or 02106@ravel.udel.edu or 02106@bach.udel.edu or 02106@brahms.udel.edu NO MORE HAGGLING ABOUT THE PRICE!!!!!!!! LOTS OF COMICS FOR $1, $2, or $3 LOOK AT LIST!!!!! For all those who have bought comics from me, thanks!!! All comics are near mint unless otherwise noted (my books were graded by mile high comics and other comic professional collectors, not me!) Here is the list: Incredible Hulk 156 (vs another Hulk) $3 195 $2 196 $2 246 (vs Captain Marvel) $1 248 $1 249 $1 250 (Double size issue vs Silver Surfer) $5 255 (vs Thor) $1 279 $1 300 $2 312 $2 313 $1 316 (vs Bi Coastal Avengers) $1 347 $1 348 $1 350 (vs Thing) $2 354 $1 358 $1 360 $1 362 (vs Werewolf By Night) $2 364 $1 365 $1 366 $1 379 (1 copy) $5 Punisher 50 $1 57 $2 Punisher War Journal 29 (Ghost Rider) $2 30 (Ghost Rider) $2 Punisher Armory 1 $4 2 $2 Original Ghost Rider Rides Again (Reprint) 1 $1 Ghost Rider (old series) 37 $3 43 (vs Johnny Blaze) $3 77 (2 copies, origin of GR dream) $4 each Ghost Rider (new series) 15 (1st print, Green glow in dark cover, 1 copy) $5 15 (2nd print, gold cover w/ glow cover) $3 Web of Spiderman 56 (2 copies) $2 each 60 $3 69 (vs Hulk, 1 copy left!!!) $2 70 (SpiderHulk, 1 copy left!!!) $2 71 $1 72 $1 78 $1 Deadly Foes of Spiderman 1 (2 copies) $2 each 2 $2 3 $2 Amazing Spiderman vs Dr. Octopus (special NACME issue) $2 Amazing Spiderman 350 (vs Dr. Doom, 1 copy LEFT!!!) $2 Spiderman (1990) 1 (silver, not bagged) $4 6 $3 7 $3 8 (2 copies) $2 each 9 (w/ Wolverine, 1 COPY LEFT!!!) $2 10 $2 11 $1 13 $5 16 $1 New Warriors 1 (gold cover) $2 8 $4 10 $2 11 $1 12 $1 13 $1 14 (w/ Darkhawk) $1 15 $1 Superman Man of Steel #1 $2 Superman (new) 53 (2 copies) $1 each 55 $1 56 $1 Adventures of Superman 479 $1 Annual #3 $1 Superman Annual #3 (Armegedon 2001 tie in) $1 Action Comics #666 $1 Avengers West Coast #69 (Hawkeye vs US Agent) $1 Batman 465 (Robin returns) $2 466 $1 467 $1 Annual #15 (Armegedon 2001 tie in) $3 Captain America 230 (vs Hulk) $2 257 (vs Hulk) $1 Armegedon 2001 1 $4 2 $2 Foolkiller #1 $2 Infinity Gauntlet 1 $6 4 $3 5 $3 Double Dragon #1 $1 Deathlok (series) 2 $1 Transformers #80 (last issue) $2 Wonder Man 1 $1 2 $1 Flaming Carrot #25 (w/ Ninja Turtles) $2 The Comet #1 $1 Legend of the Shield #1 $1 Justice Society of America 1 $1 2 $1 3 $1 4 $1 Official movie mag from Turtles II movie (sealed w/ Jelloman comic) $5 Robin 1 (1 copies w/ poster) $3 1 (3rd print) $1 5 (6 copies) $1 each Guardians of the Galaxy 1 $6 2 $3 3 $2 4 $2 5 $2 6 $2 7 $2 8 $2 9 (2 copies) $3 each 10 $2 11 $2 12 $1 13 $3 14 $3 15 $1 16 $1 17 $1 18 (2 copies) $2 each Superman vs Amazing Spiderman (oversized issue from 70's) $7 DarkHawk 1 (3 copies) $8 each 2 (2 copies) $6 each 3 $5 4 $4 5 $4 6 $3 7 $2 8 $2 9 $3 10 $1 Thor 246 $1 428 $1 429 (vs Juggernaut) $2 430 (w/ Ghost Rider) $1 431 $1 432 (Thor vs Loki, 2 copies) $3 each 433 (new Thor) $2 Annual #16 $1 What if.... 13 $1 23 $1 25 $2 26 $1 Alpha Flight 29 $1 51 $6 53 $6 94 (vs Fant. 4) $1 New Mutants 22 $2 100 (last issue, 1st look at X-Force, 1st print, 2 copies) $5 each 100 (2nd print, gold cover) $4 Flash (new) 43 $1 48 $1 49 $1 50 $2 51 $1 Annual #4 $1 X-Men (new) 1 (all 5 covers) $1 each but $2 for magneto foldout cover Uncanny X-Men 191 $3 215 $2 255 (2 copies) $2 each 258 $6 268 (1 sold,1 copy left!, Lee reg artist) $10 275 (1 COPY LEFT 1st print) $6 275 (gold 2nd print) $3 276 $3 277 $3 278 $2 279 $2 280 $2 281 $3 282 $4 283 $6 Defenders 52 (Hulk vs Sub Mariner) $2 Fantastic Four 347 $4 348 $2 349 (3 copies) $2 each Wolverine 11 $3 20 $2 41 (w/ Cable, 2 copies) $6 each 42 $4 43 $3 Silver Surfer (1987) 1 $6 2 $3 3 $3 4 $3 5 $2 6 $2 8 $2 22 $2 24 $2 32 $2 49 $2 50 (Foil cover, only 1 copy left!!) $6 51 $2 52 $2 53 $1 54 $1 55 $1 56 $1 58 $2 59 $2 Avengers 326 $3 328 (origin of Rage) $3 X-Factor 40 $6 67 $3 68 $6 71 $3 73 $1 Quasar 21 $1 22 $1 23 $1 24 $1 Green Lantern (1990) 3 $2 9 (2 copies) $1 each 10 $1 11 $1 12 $1 Toxic Avenger 1 (3 copies) $1 each 2 $1 Sleepwalker 1 (3 copies) $2 each 3 $1 7 $1 Kool Aid Man #1 (sealed in white bag, 2 copies) $2 each X-Force 1 (bagged w/ Cable Card) $4 1 (bagged w/ Shatterstar Card) $3 2 $2 3 $1 4 $1 NFL Superpro 1 $1 Dr. Strange #31 $1 Hawkworld Annual #2 (2nd print, Armegedon 2001 tie in) $1 Hawk & Dove Annual #2 (Armegedon 2001 tie in) $1 Justice League of America Annual #5 (Armegedon 2001 tie in) $1 Send all bids and comments to 02106@chopin.udel.edu Thanks Sam (the "ex" comic book collector)
No one says you have to read any of it Ralph.. Go play in traffic.., or take a nap... They work for me..
just picked out this one point because it struck me.... why do you believe this? muslims believe in many of the same things that christians and jews believe; they believe jesus, while not the messiah, is a prophet. this seems to me to be much closer to christianity than other religions are. (then again i tend to be somewhat liberal about others' beliefs.) this also relates to the serbian "ethnic cleansing" question. i have been waiting for condemnations of this and have seen very few. HOW can we stand by and watch innocent people, even people whose beliefs we condemn, if this is the case (and don't get me wrong, the things fundamenalist muslims have to say about women make my blood boil), be tortured, raped (the stories about that made me physically ill), and killed? jesus loves all, not just those who love him back -- and he would advocate kindness toward them (in the hopes of converting them, if that's the way you want to put it) rather than killing them. i'm sorry i got off the subject here -- maybe i should have used a different title. i did need to get this off my chest, however. peace (shalom), vera shanti _______________________________________________________________________________ Hand over hand noye@midway.uchicago.edu Doesn't seem so much (Vera Noyes) Hand over hand Is the strength of the common touch drop me a line if you're in the mood - Rush, "Hand Over Fist" _______________________________________________________________________________ [I am also worried about this issue. I've made a posting under my own name earlier today. I do not much want to discuss Moslem beliefs here. This isn't the right group for it. Their beliefs about Jesus appear to come as much from the Koran as the Bible. This means that while they honor him, what they think he did and stood for differs in many ways from Christian beliefs about him. But Moslem beliefs are an appropriate topic for soc.religion.islam. As I'm sure you know, many Christians believe that you must accept Christ in order to be saved. While Stanley's comment appears to be anti-Moslem, I would assume he would say the same thing about all religions other than Christianity.
Oh gee, a billion dollars! That'd be just about enough to cover the cost of the feasability study! Happy, Happy, JOY! JOY!
Source: "Men Are Like That" by Leonard Ramsden Hartill. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis (1926). (305 pages). (Memoirs of an Armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 19 (first paragraph) "The Tartar section of the town no longer existed, except as a pile of ruins. It had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered. The same fate befell the Tartar section of Khankandi." p. 22 (second paragraph) "Many of our men had served in the Russian Army, and were trained soldiers. We Armenians were rich and possessed arms. Tartars had never received military training. They were poor, and possessed few arms beyond knives. Shortly after the killing of the Tartars in our village, the revolution in Russia was suppressed." Serdar Argic
Not the first. RFK, olim DC Stadium, was built 2 years earlier. Nowadays they don't move the seats back for the few exhibition games; but the 3rd-base/LF lower deck used to move. It was all metal, which was pretty noisy on Bat Day. It's vastly better than it was before they fixed it, though. Back in the late 70's it was a *dump*.
If all of these things have been detected in space, has anyone looked into possible problems with the detectors? That is, is there some mechanism (cosmic rays, whatever) that could cause the dector to _think_ it was seeing one of these things?
I have an unopened CD called "Bird-The Original Recordings of Charlie Parker" It has on it, among others: Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Red Rodney, Thelonious Monk, and Lester Young. I would be willing to sell it to the highest bidder, or else to trade it for another jazz CD that I would be interested in.
Like it or not, Edward, Anwar has a very good, valid point. Obviously, in presenting it, he (quite legitimately and deliberately) takes a point of view to an extreme which might not have been what you intended, but that is one of the best ways to demonstrate a "slippery slope" type of argument, which I believe was his aim. I very frankly believe that the ADL will be proved innocent in this case. I doubt there's enough evidence to weigh against them even in a civil court, where preponderance of the evidence, not evidence beyond any reasonable doubt, is the standard for "winning" such a case. That, however, does not prevent me from seeing the merit in Anwar's point. Rest deleted.
Perhaps you're using the wrong brand! (Sorry all HP fans, but I have a hard time being convinced that their scopes match the rest of their (excellent) gear). One of the principal functions I look for when considering a DSO is whether you can turn interpolation off. The other important feature is to disable repetitive waveform acquisition i.e. being able to lock the instrument into real time capture mode. I agree with you here. The only consolation is that manufacturers are _beginning_ to pay attention to ergonomics when designing the menus. However, to be fair, it seems that first time scope users (our students) seem to adjust to menus easier than navigating around the twenty or more knobs required of a "real" scope :-) This is one area that newer DSOs are addressing. I recently evaluated the latest box from Tek - their TDS320 - which seems to be a worthy alternative to a standard 100MHz analogue CRO. This instrument has a 100MHz, 500Ms/s spec, meaning that it is _always_ in real time capture mode. The pricing also matches equivalent analogue scopes in the range. The downer is that the instrument uses menus again, but at least they appear to be logically laid out. One more thing about the new, "simpler", front panels. These instruments tend to use digital rotary encoders as knobs now. This is a vast improvement over the old oak switch. The single most common cause of failure in our scopes (other than students blowing up inputs!) is mechanical wear on these switches. I look at the new panels as a great step toward increasing the longevity of the instruments. JohnH ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | _ |_ _ |_| _ _| _| Electronics Department |_| (_) | | | | | | (_| (_| (_| \/ School of MPCE ---------------------------------/- Macquarie University Sydney, AUSTRALIA 2109 Email: johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au, Ph: +61 2 805 8959, Fax: +61 2 805 8983
Hi! When posting Winmark results, it is a good idea to give the version of WinBench that you used to obtain the scores, as well as the resolution that you tested and the version of the drivers.
recently-manufactured locomotives have wheel-slip detection systems that use frequencies shared with police radar (i forget which band). these will set off your radar detector if you get close enough, though i believe the range is pretty short.
I'm not sure I understand this question. When the IF rule is invoked, the batter is automatically out. This relieves the runners from being forced to advance to the next base if the ball is not caught. Other than that, isn't it just the same as any situation in which a runner on a base is not forced to the next base on a dropped fly ball? That is, if the ball is caught he can tag up and run (or decide to stay), and if the ball is dropped he can have left the base at any time.
I am looking for a package that implements standard image processing functions (reading/writing from standard formats), clipping, zoom, etc. implemented under X. Both public domain and private packages are of interest. The particular application area I have in mind is medical imaging, but a package meant for a more general context would be acceptable. Please reply to me; I will summarize on the net if there is general interest.
Hey, I can't send mail to you, so.... Could you please resend me your address? I lost it (for H. in Moscow)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Because of this I cannot in good faith recommend a Seca Turbo. Power delivery is too uneven for a novice. The Official (tm) Dod newbie bike of choice would be more appropriate because the powerband is so wide and delivery is very smooth. Perfect for the beginner.
Electronics Art's Ultrabots game for sale with book and original 3.5" disks in the original box. - $22 or best offer.
anyone know the outcome of tonight's jays game? -home runs? -winning pitcher?
1) Complete 80386Dx25Mhz System for sale SVGA card/w color Tatung VGA Monitor 2s/1p 2 floppies (1.44 and 1.2) 230 Watt Power supply 1 meg ram installed 80 meg IDE 14ms Hard drive Best offer... 2) Bits and pieces a) IDE controller card b) internal 2400 baud modem c) 80386Dx25Mhz CPU d) 3 megs SIMM memory e) Standard VGA card 3) Panasonic KXP-1524 Wide Carriage 24 pin Printer Brand new condition comes with plenty 'o ribbons Parallel and Serial ports Nice crisp output ALl items are in beautiful condition. All fully functional. Willing to provide net references if needed. Best offers on all items snag 'em. Thanks for your time! Ciaran
(just an interrupting comment here) Since EARLY 1980's , israelis said they are willing to give up the Adminstration rule of the occupied terretories to Palestineans. Palestineans refused and will refuse such settlement that denies them their right of SELF-DETERMINATION. period. Ok. I donot know why there are israeli voices against negotiations. However, i would guess that is because they refuse giving back a land for those who have the right for it. As for the Arabian and Palestinean voices that are against the current negotiations and the so-called peace process, they are not against peace per se, but rather for their well-founded predictions that Israel would NOT give an inch of the West bank (and most probably the same for Golan Heights) back to the Arabs. An 18 months of "negotiations" in Madrid, and Washington proved these predictions. Now many will jump on me saying why are you blaming israelis for no-result negotiations. I would say why would the Arabs stall the negotiations, what do they have to loose ? Arabs feel that the current "negotiations" is ONLY for legitimizing the current status-quo and for opening the doors of the Arab markets for israeli trade and "oranges". That is simply unacceptable and would be revoked. Just an opinion.
So the only way you can tell a false hadith from a true one is if it contradicts the Quran? What if it relates to something that isn't explicitly spelled out in the Quran? Also, the Quran wasn't written down during the life of Muhammed either. It wasn't long after, but 20 years or so is still long enough to shift a few verses around. Karl -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
I have WD1007-WA2 ESDI controller with ROM BIOS v.1.1. It has been working fine until I recently upgraded motherboard to 386-40MHz. Now, my Maxter drive goes crazy making lots of seeking sound even when the drive is not accessed. Of course, with numourous hard disk controller errors. These symptoms disappear when I switch to non-turbo mode (8 MHz). I suspect some timing dependent Rom Bios routines. (There's a newer version 2.x) Could anybody help me on this? By the way, my new mother board has AMI Bios, 128k Cache, 8 MHz bus, and works fine with my old MFM drives (I had to dig them up). :-( Also, I will appreciate it very much if somebody send me the phone numbers (tech support/BBS) for Western Digital. Many thanks in advance. Jay
: : : Shadow mask is when you put your face into : main memory. :
The Japanese are still on the learning curve as far as nuclear power goes. This means that unlike the Germans (who do great things all by themselves) the Japanese tie up with foreign companies. The major one is Mitsubishi (who else) who have a sharing agreement with GE I think. No chance of a new design. Sodium has *lots* of chemical problems. Like it eats stainless steel. Very slowly but it gets there in the end. Not what I call a desired property. As for design difficulties, what does sodium do there? It is a bitch and it is only its chemical properties (flwed though they are) that means it gets used. Two loops? That's not a design problem? Isolation from air and water? That doesn't cause design problems? In comparison BWR's a dream rides! Don't get none of that in a Liquid Sodium Breeder! More steel, more complexity. Joseph Askew
Hi, I am looking for a PC card which does european videotext/teletext descrambling (PAL). Does anyone in the US sell such a card? I once saw an article about a card with the same functionallity in a european Elektor magazine, but I wasn't able to track it down.
Good question. I'm sure some biologist could answer better than I, but animals brains are just set up differently. Animals *can* be trained, but if they're instincts serve them well, there is no reason to contradict them.
(WEBSTER: myth: "a traditional or legendary story... ...a belief...whose truth is accepted uncritically.") How does that qualify? Indeed, it's almost oxymoronic...a rather amusing instance. I've found that most atheists hold almost no atheist-views as "accepted uncritically," especially the few that are legend. Many are trying to explain basic truths, as myths do, but they don't meet the other criterions. Also... You accuse him of referencing mythology, then you procede to launch your own xtian mythology. (This time meeting all the requirements of myth.) Ah, but not everyone "knows" that god exists. So you have a fallacy. And that makes it true? Holding with the Bible rules out controversy? Read the FAQ. If you've read it, you missed something, so re-read. (Not a bad suggestion for anyone...I re-read it just before this.) ...should I repeat what I wrote above for the sake of getting it across? You may trust the Bible, but your trusting it doesn't make it any more credible to me. If the Bible says that everyone knows, that's clearly reason to doubt the Bible, because not everyone "knows" your alleged god's alleged existance. 1) No, they don't have to ignore the Bible. The Bible is far from universally accepted. The Bible is NOT a proof of god; it is only a proof that some people have thought that there was a god. (Or does it prove even that? They might have been writing it as series of fiction short-stories. As in the case of Dionetics.) Assuming the writers believed it, the only thing it could possibly prove is that they believed it. And that's ignoring the problem of whether or not all the interpretations and Biblical-philosophers were correct. 2) There are people who have truly never heard of the Bible. 3) Again, read the FAQ. Bzzt...wrong answer! Gravity is directly THERE. It doesn't stop exerting a direct and rationally undeniable influence if you ignore it. God, on the other hand, doesn't generally show up in the supermarket, except on the tabloids. God doesn't exert a rationally undeniable influence. Gravity is obvious; gods aren't. No, human reason hasn't always come back to the existance of "God"; it has usually come back to the existance of "god". In other words, it doesn't generally come back to the xtian god, it comes back to whether there is any god. And, in much of oriental philosophic history, it generally doesn't pop up as the idea of a god so much as the question of what natural forces are and which ones are out there. From a world-wide view, human nature just makes us wonder how the universe came to be and/or what force(s) are currently in control. A natural tendancy to believe in "God" only exists in religious wishful thinking. Xtianity is no more reasonable than most other religions, and it's reasonableness certainly doesn't merit eminence. Divine justice...well, it only seems just to those who already believe in the divinity. First, not all atheists believe the same things about human nature. Second, whether most atheists are correct or not, YOU certainly are not correct on human nature. You are, at the least, basing your views on a completely eurocentric approach. Try looking at the outside world as well when you attempt to sum up all of humanity.
I did hear this question asked during a radio news update of the case. (They were talking about the ongoing trial and had some audio clips). Immediately after the defense attorney asked the question, there was an "Objection!" heard in the background. The clip ended at that point so I don't know if the objection was upheld. I can't imagine NC is *that* bad. This I didn't hear as an audio clip but heard it reported a number of times on news stories both during and after the trial. Now the "we did it on purpose" thing is stretching, I think it was something more like--he had it coming. If somebody else remebers better than I on this second point, feel free to clarify. Frank -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Frank R. Chloupek CHLOUPEK@ohstpy.mps.ohio-state.edu Department of Physics -- *The* Ohio State University (Not just any Ohio State University)
For Sale : Casio Digital Diary Electronic Organizer (SF-4000) 32k RAM will hold approxmiately 1500 names/phone numbers Big 6 line display 200 Year Visible Calendar Schedule Function Memo Bank Telephone Name, Number, Address Storage Calculator Compact folding design fits in your pocket
Hi Folks, I recently bought a 1981 Mercury Capri (my first car ever!). I have noticed a few problems with the car : 1. It gives very low gas mileage (something like 11 miles / gallon ; I hear other car owners speak of gas-mileage figures like 25 miles/gallon (wow!) etc.). 2. When I start the car, it goes into high idling (something like 1500 (or is it 15000 ?) rpm. After driving 4 or 5 miles, it comes down to 300 (or 3000?) rpm. I would like to know if there is any way by which I can fix these problems. Or is it natural for an old car like this ? (it has done about 117,000 miles). Someone suggested that I change/rebuild/ recondition the carburettor. I am not prepared to do it unless I am sure it will fix the problem. And yes, I got the car tuned-up recently (within the last 200 miles or so). Please let me know if you have any suggestions. Please respond by email since I don't scan this newsgroup regularly. Thanks. Regards, --Sudhi. -- Sira Gopinath Sudhindranath. email : sudhi@ucs.usl.edu.
I'm not sure about the helmet but for chin questions you might want to write to a: Jay Leno c/o Tonight Show Burbank Calif. Good luck.
[text deleted] I wish that you had followed this thread before jumping to conclusions. I haven't seen anybody write that AIDS was a *punishment* for certain types of sin (this includes Mark Ashley who you were responding to here). I myself wrote that when you don't do things God's way that curses will come on you and others. Although one definition of 'curse' is 'retribution', I only meant 'harm or misfortune' when I used the word. Because God loves us he has told us the best way to live in his Bible. God doesn't cause curses, he warns us of them. Kevin Davis wrote (a while ago): The Bible makes it clear that we all equally deserve death (which is much worse than AIDS) -- we have all hurt God with our sin. Paul Conditt reveals his feelings: The first issue you bring up is your anger. It is "obvious"ly wrong to be angry (Gal 5:19-20) for any reason, especially *extremely* angry which is on par with hatred. Jesus has every reason to be angry at us for putting him on the cross with our sin, yet his prayer was "forgive them Father, they know not what they do." Knowing how forgiving Jesus has been with me calls me to be more forgiving with everyone out of love for Him. Please don't give in to anger, it will only cause foolish quarrels and more bad feelings. It's okay if you read something that bothers you, but you need to address it in a loving way. If right now, I felt like someone out there was saying that God punishes gay or sexually immoral people with AIDS because they deserve punishment that others don't then I would frame a response something like this: "It makes me feel very sad for someone to believe that AIDS, which is simply a harmful disease not so unlike any other, is God's punishment for people who have committed certain sins. God loves all of his children equally and rejoices when a single one comes back to him. We will all be judged after we die, but until then we all have the opportunity to accept God's grace by earnestly seeking after him with all of our hearts, believing the gospel's testimony, repenting of our sin, confessing that Jesus is Lord at baptism, and living a new life for him. Let us not judge someone to be eternally condemned. God's arm is not to short to save. He will do anything he can to move a hardened heart or a misled person. He works for the good of all men. Even through the worst of situations, he has set the times and places for all men that they may perhaps reach out and find him." The second issue you bring up is seeing people rationalize their fears of people with AIDS. Fortunately, what you describe as seeing is actually misperceiving. You have been missing the points made in the earlier posts and reacting in anger to attitudes that haven't been expressed. I know that its sometimes hard to discount your perceptions, but please try to be open-minded. You are quite correct in saying that we should reach out to all people because they all need Jesus. This is what my brothers and sisters and I do on a daily basis. If you would like to send me the name of the city and state you live in, I will find and get you in touch with some brothers who have AIDS or know people with AIDS and live nearby you so that you can see the loving attitudes for yourself. The third issue you bring up is the importance of how some individual contracted AIDS. How someone gets AIDS is only relevant to their salvation in that there may be repetence involved. The important point to be made, however, is that not listening to God's commands (or advice or warnings), i.e. sinning, causes harm or misfortune to yourself and others. For this reason, a good way to prevent the misfortune of AIDS, which can be transmitted in sinful ways, is to listen to God's advice and have sex only with your wife or husband. I hope that you are feeling better now, Paul. Love,
I have an old Optonica tuner and integrated amp that I no longer use. The integrated amp section does not work right now but should not cost much to fix. I believe that it is just a Chip. I have used it as a preamp and it works great! This is a very nice looking and well built set. They both are low profile but the amp is rather heavy. The tuner is in fine working condition and is a match to the amp. The amp is rated at 75w/ch. These peices went for about $850 New. I would like to get $150. obo for the pair. If anybody has knowledge anough to fix the amp, I have had an estimate done that it should cost less than $50 in parts. Please email me if you are interested. I will be moving back home for the summer and will sell it back there if I do not do so here. Todd
Why does the Center For Policy Research pose such unbelievably stupid and loaded questions to this newsgroup. What are you? - a think tank, or a fish tank? Every time I start to believe I have seen the outer boundaries of your stupidity, you come up with one step beyond. When will it end, man? Can you actually have brain enough to dress and feed yourself each morning?
I have a 1986 Acura Integra 5 speed with 95,000 miles on it. It is positively the worst car I have ever owned. I had an 83 Prelude that had 160k miles on it when I sold it, and it was still going strong . This is with religious attention to maintenance such as oil changes etc. Both cars were driven in exactly the same manner.. 1. It has gone through two clutches (which are underrated.) 2. 3 sets of tires (really eats tires in the front even with careful align) 3. All struts started leaking about 25-30k miles 4. Windshield wiper motor burned up (service note on this one) 5. Seek stop working on radio about 20k miles 6. Two timing belts. 7. Constant error signals from computer. 8. And finally. A rod bearing went out on the No. 1 piston seriously damaging the crankshaft, contaminating the engine etc. When the overhaul was done last week it required new crankshaft, one new cam shaft (has two) because the camshaft shattered when they tried to mill it. The camshaft took 4 weeks to get because it is on national back order. Everything on the engine is unique to the 1986 year. They went to a new design in 87. Parts are very expensive.
Lack of build quality was the thing I notced on the first 2 LH's I saw months back. The panel gaps were large and non-uniform between the 2 cars I saw - the kind of thing you expect and accept on a Mustang - but not from Chrysler's savior. I drove one of the low end cars, and thought it was more than adequate. I'd prefer an LH to a Taurus from my brief experience. Craig
I built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch audio. I got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. I was doing most of the common things one is supposed to do when using relays and nothing seemed to get rid of the clicks. My question is: Is there a good relay/relay circuit that I can use for switching audio, so that there will be *NO* noise of any kind on the audio lines. I will appreciate any advice or references to advice. Also, exact part numbers/company names etc. for the relays will help! Thanks!
Well, I'm not too sure if this would be the right place to post this, but anyway, here goes: I was just noticing that some of the current bubblejet printers offers up to 360x360 resolution while a lot of lower end laser printers only offer 300x300. However, the laser printers still seems to be significantly pricier than the bubblejets... how is this? Or am I missing something about the resolution thing?
How about calling someone with the Caller ID service and have them call you back with the number? --
(MODERATOR: THIS IS A REPLACEMENT FOR AN EARLIER, MORE CLUMSILY WORDED SUBMISSION ON THE SAME TOPIC WHICH I SUBMITTED A FEW MINUTES AGO.) I think we need to distinguish etymology from meaning. Regardless of how the word 'Easter' *originated*, the fact is that it does not *now* mean anything to Christians other than 'the feast day of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ'. The meaning of a word is _only_ what people understand it to mean. And the same goes for other cultural practices. The festival of Easter may possibly have some historical association with some pagan festival, but *today* there are, as far as I know, no Christians who *intend* to honor any kind of "pagan goddess" by celebrating Easter. It is nonsense to say "this word (or this practice) 'really' means so- and-so even though nobody realizes it." Words and practices don't mean things, people do. (This is basic semantics; I'm a linguist; they pay me to think about things like this.) -- :- Michael A. Covington, Associate Research Scientist : ***** :- Artificial Intelligence Programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu : ********* :- The University of Georgia phone 706 542-0358 : * * * :- Athens, Georgia 30602-7415 U.S.A. amateur radio N4TMI : ** *** ** <><
Syria had been bombing Israeli settlements from the Golan and sending terrorist squads into Israel for years. Do you need me to provide specifics? I can. Why don't you give it up, Hasan? I'm really starting to get tired of your empty lies. You can defend your position and ideology with documented facts and arguments rather than the crap you regularly post. Take an example from someone like Brendan McKay, with whom I don't agree, but who uses logic and documentation to argue his position. Why must you insist on constantly spouting baseless lies? You may piss some people off, but that's about it. You won't prove anything or add anything worthy to a discussion. Your arguments just prove what a poor debater you are and how weak your case really is.
I am considering making a reasonably large application for free distribution (probably copylefted). I am going to use X. Now I'm bewildered by the huge number of "standards" that "open systems" has created. I've lived in a fairly tookit-sheltered environment. Most of the tools here were produced with the Athena Widget set, or X Intrinsics or Xw (??). In my humble opinion, they look like crap. I don't know, however, if this is a characteristic of the tookits, or just poor aestetic taste in the programmers. I would like my app to look a little more "sculptured" like mwm. I understand, however, that mwm isn't free like the other tookits. I am getting Linux, so I will have InterViews, but I don't know how it will look. I get the impression Andrew is from the FSF, but I don't know what it looks like either. If you can help explain this toolkit mess to me, I would be much obliged. Which are free? Which are the best? Which are portable? Which looks nice? Which is not a resource hog? Also, if you happen to know which are available on Linux and/or Sun, that would be a big help too.
For sale 1986 Harley FLHTC Liberty Edition. Good condition. Many extras. Asking $7500. Located in Rhode Island.
I would suggest Draw for Windows (by Micrografx). I have this on my home box. Its quite impressive and only cost UKL100. It has a rather nice clip-art library facility which you can expand with your own drawings. There is no circuit component clip-art included, but you could add your own quite easily. It works with any Windows printer driver of course, and can also export embedded postscript and PCX files. Note: I am not connected with Micrografx in any way. Paul.
I've heard of sillier things, like a well-known utility company wanting to buy an 'automated' boiler-cleaning system which uses as many operators as the old system, and which rumour has it costs three million more per unit. Automation is more 'efficient' although by what scale they are not saying...
It is all written in _The_Wholly_Babble:_the_Users_Guide_to_Invisible_ _Pink_Unicorns_. To be granted faith in invisible pink unicorns, you must read the Babble, and obey what is written in it. To obey what is written in the Babble, you must believe that doing so is the way to be granted faith in invisible pink unicorns. To believe that obeying what is written in the Babble leads to believing in invisible pink unicorns, you must, essentially, believe in invisible pink unicorns. This bit of circular reasoning begs the question: What makes obeying different from believing?
Hi... I'm not a religious guy so dont take this as some kinda flame (thanx in advance) I want to know why there are so many different versions of the bible? There "....contains inaccurate data and inconsistencies." Thanx in advance... Shaz.... [I'm not sure quite what you mean by many different versions. The primary distinction in versions you see today is in the style of the translation. It's pretty unusual to see significant differences in meaning. There are a few differences in the underlying text. That's because before printing, manuscripts were copied by hand. Slight differences resulted. There are enough manuscripts around that scholars can do a pretty good job of recreating the original, but there are some uncertainties. Fortunately, they are generally at the level of minor differences in wording. There are something like 3 or 4 places where whole sentences are involved, but with recent discoveries of older manuscripts, I don't think there's much uncertainly about those cases. As far as I know, no Christians believe that the process of copying manuscripts or the process of translating is free of error. But I also don't think there's enough uncertainty in establishing the text or translating it that it has much practical effect. Whether the Bible contains inaccurate data and inconsistences is a hot topic of debate here. Many Christians deny it. Some accept it (though most would say that the inaccuracies involved are on details that don't affect the faith). But this has nothing to do with there being multiple versions. The supposed inconsistences can be found in all the versions. I'm surprised to find a reference to this on the title page though. What version are you talking about? I've been referring to major scholarly translations. These are what get referenced in postings here and elsewhere. There have certainly been editions that are (to be kind) less widely accepted. This includes everything from reconstructions that combine parallel accounts into single narrations, to editions that omit material that the editor objects to for some reason or the other. The copyright on the Bible has long since expired, so there nothing to stop people from making editions that do whatever wierd thing they want. However the editions that are widely used are carefully prepared by groups of scholars from a variety of backgrounds, with lots of crosschecks. I could imagine one of the lesser-known editions claiming to have fixed up all inaccurate data and inconsistencies. But if so, it's not any edition that's widely used. The widely used ones leave the text as is. (Weeeeelllllll, almost as is. It's been alleged that a few translations have fudged a word or two here and there to minimize inconsistencies. Because translation is not an exact science, there are always going to be differences in opinion over which word is best, I'm afraid.)
try this after XCreateWindow: ----------------------------- #include <X11/Xutil.h> Display display; Window window; { XSizeHints *xsizehints = XAllocSizeHints (); xsizehints->flags = USPosition | USSize; /* or = PPosition | PSize */ xsizehints->x = 42; xsizehints->y = 42; xsizehints->width = 100; xsizehints->height = 100; XSetWMNormalHints (display, window, xsizehints); XFree (xsizehints); } These hints tell the window manager that the position and size of the window are specified by the users and that the window manager should accept these values. If you use xsizehints->flags = PPosition | PSize, this tells the window manager that the values are prefered values of the program, not the user. I don't know a window manager that doesn't place the window like you prefer if you specify the position and size like above. Greetings from Berlin,
Go for it. I have yet to see anybody justify the prohibition on drugs and the ensuing War On Drugs. In the world of *.politics here on Usenet, it is YOU that is crazy. ANYBODY--who gives the matter any thought beyond reading headlines---cannot justify this atrocity, this all out war on individual rights. Just _TRY_ to justify the War On Drugs, I _DARE_ you! Once again, in chorus: WHY is this "stupid"? The above paragraph is gibberish--that all I can make of it...
Tonigth a TV journal here in Brasil announced that an object, beyond Pluto's orbit, was found by an observatory at Hawaii. They named the object Karla. The program said the object wasn't a gaseous giant planet, and should be composed by rocks and ices. Can someone confirm these information? Could this object be a new planet or a Kuiper object? Thanks in advance. Francisco.
[ Article crossposted from misc.forsale.computers.pc-clone ] [ Author was Mark Wilson ] [ Posted on Fri, 16 Apr 1993 13:18:42 GMT ] UPDATE ("for sale" items): (All plus shipping) 1. CORE 72Mb Hard drive, model AT72, works fine, 5 1/4" full-height, reduced to $90 2. MFM controller for the above, would like to sell with above, have $15 asking price, but will sell with #1 above for $100 combined. 3. AT-style case $10 (in process of selling) 4. VGA card, 512K, now asking $25 5. 386 Max, version 6.0, now asking $25 Please email mark@ocsmd.ocs.com or use phone #s below. - Mark -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mark Wilson, Online Computer Systems. 1-800-922-9204 or 1-301-601-2215 (Try email address mark@ocsmd.ocs.com....) This file .disclaims everything signed with my .signature, I .mean it! ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mark Wilson, Online Computer Systems. 1-800-922-9204 or 1-301-601-2215 (Try email address mark@ocsmd.ocs.com....) This file .disclaims everything signed with my .signature, I .mean it!
Gilligan = Sloth Skipper = Anger Thurston Howell III = Greed Lovey Howell = Gluttony Ginger = Lust Professor = Pride Mary Ann = Envy
How do you spell "tuna helper" ?
Is it just me, or has this part gotten beyond useful? Gregg is not, as I understand his posts, giving any support to the bounty on Rushdie's life. If that's correct, end of one point... Gregg is using the concept of legal in a way most Westerners don't accept. His comments about Islamic Law I think make a great deal of sense to him, and are even making a _little_ sense to me now - if a person is a member of a group (religion or whatever) they bind themselves to follow the ways of the group within the bounds of what the group requires as a minimum. The big bone of contention here that I'm picking up is that in the West we have secular governments that maintain, more or less, a level of control and of requirements outside the requirements of optional groups. I think the majority of us reading this thread are in tune (note - I didn't say "in agreement") with the idea that you are finally responsible to the secular government, and within that to the group or groups a person may have chosen. With that in mind, it not possible under secular law ("legally" as most people would define the term) to hold a person to a particular group once they decide to separate from it. Only if the secular authorities agree that there is a requirement of some sort (contractual, etc) is there any secular _enforcement_ allowed by a group to a group member or past group member. A religion can, and often does, believe in and require additional duties of a group member. And it can enforce the fulfillment of those duties in many ways - ostracism is common for example. But the limit comes when the enforcement would impose unwanted and/or unaccepted onus on a person _in conflict with secular law_. This is the difference. In a theocracy, the requirements of the secular authorities are, by definition, congruent with the religious authorities. Outside a theocracy, this is not _necessarily_ true. Religious requirements _may_ coincide or may not. Similiarly, religious consequences _may_ or may not coincide with secular consequences (if any). Regards, Dew
How many of you readers know anything about Jews living in the Arab countries? How many of you know if Jews still live in these countries? How many of you know what the circumstances of Arabic Jews leaving their homelands were? Just curious.
Welcome aboard! (I think you just answered your own question, there) Most responses were against his postings that spouted the fact that all atheists are fools/evil for not seeing how peachy Islam is. I would leave the pro/con arguments of Islam to Fred Rice, who is more level headed and seems to know more on the subject, anyway. How did you know I was going to welcome you abord?!?
I'm not very impressed by the old so-called "prospecting" work from LPI, it has almost all been geared towards industrially silly processes on the moon as an excuse to put astronauts there. [...] Translation: It doesn't support the Nick Szabo Vision of the Future to Which You MUST Subscribe... Fred, we're all supporting what each of us thinks should be done, to some degree. If you have a problem with what Nick thinks should be done, address it, instead of just complaining about his doing so. You really don't get what the 'complaints' are about, do you? [not incredibly clear explanation of complaints...something between feelings regarding Nick's method, and judgments about his meaning] T F *** Fred's issue #1; Nick's alleged trashing of others *** I only got it when you stopped trashing, and made your point patently, instead of 'allegorically'. That was my point all along, Fred. I see we are dealing with a problem in a conflict of interpretations, not least of which is your belief that only you can adequately judge what is and is not debate. Suffice to say that I disagree with you on that last point. Why don't you take a poll, Fred, if you want some psuedo-objective point-of-view? And, as usual, you defend your insults with "he started it." "Yeah, I took some of his research and called it my own, but he started it." "So what if I stole his car, he stole my lawnmower first." Besides that, I think it's still open to interpretation whether Nick actually did start it. So your defense, besides being lame, and contradicting the first part of the sentence in which it occurs, may not even apply anyway. Your defense reminds me of the guy that broke the borrowed tool: "I never borrowed it, I already gave it back, and it was broken when you gave it to me." Make up yer mind, Fred! First, I try to address what I think you meant, for which I am rewarded with a denial of sorts, and a smart remark. Then, I point out that I am not clear what you did mean, rather than risking your childish ire, wrongly interpreting you a second time, and I'm stupid for it. I just can't win, can I, Fred? You've got a great point here somewhere, it's just that between stupid people that you must insult, and your jealous guarding of your valuable opinions, you never actually get around to making it. *** Fred issue #2; Nick's alleged meaning *** Too bad the plan only exists in your mind, instead of Nick's, or you would have a really good point. Instead you have provided a good reason to ignore your insults, since they are based on incorrect interpretations that you have made about others. Forgive me for giving your insults more meaning than they ever should have had. My reading of what Nick actually said is that "people aren't required in all parts of all space processes", so your taking issue with his opinions regarding people in the space program, I read as "People are required in all parts of all space processes." So, help me out, here, Fred, since I'm so patently stupid. Did you read Nick wrong? Or are you going to eat your terminal now? If the latter, I sure hope it's one of those Cheeto and string models that all the computer mags have been raving about :-) The point is, _I_ am not stupid because of _your_ incorrect assumption. I'd only be stupid if I insulted you for having made it. But, alas, that's your job, Fred. And, finally, your style is confusing, since you tried to make two points, simultaneously, with an allegory/insult. Sadly, one point addressed a 'plan' that only existed in your mind, and the other took issue with behaviors that you do as much as anyone. No, no, I finally got it. You don't like the plan that Nick's posts made you imagine. And you don't like Nick's obnoxious behavior, even though it's no worse than your own. Thanks for taking the time with someone as dense as myself. Of course, Socrates. How could it be otherwise? Who cares who came on the net first? If you do, consider that you saw me come on after a brief haitus, before which I was on for about 2 years. If you had seen me on the net first, you'd remember when Nick and I went down exactly the same road regarding rude, unneccesary behavior. It's just amazing to me that you continue to take issue with behavior that's no worse than your own. Let's see here, my complaints about your obnoxious behavior are hypocritical, while your flames against people you decide are flamers isn't, and my complaints about your name-calling are immature, while your name-calling isn't. Yeah, right. Maybe if you called me some more names, I might see it better, Fred. "Net.ghod wannabe"? Naturally, Fred, you've correctly interpreted my motivations, when yours are impossible to judge from your actions (as your insulting of people that try, proves). I didn't really care about people that fill the net with personal garbage, what I really wanted was to impress everyone. I only put my complaints with your behavior on private mail, not because it belongs there, but because I thought you were such a jerk that you'd bring it back to the Net, playing right into my hands. Alas, I had no idea what an intellectual master you were, turning tables and bringing the history of these posts to the net, for the noble and valuable purpose of embarassing me. Whether I should feel stupid because I tried to make suggestions to such a superior intellect, or becuase I tried to communicate like an adult with a self-righteous ass, still isn't clear. Well, Fred, you exposed me. Now I'll never be able to get a(nother) job with NASA, since they all know that I'm stupider than Fred McCall. Well, I just hope you're happy. Please leave me alone, now. I just don't have the heart to attempt keeping up with one so far above me. Maybe Nick or Pat can approach your high standards, but I'm dropping it now. -Tommy Mac ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tom McWilliams 517-355-2178 wk \\ As the radius of vision increases, 18084tm@ibm.cl.msu.edu 336-9591 hm \\ the circumference of mystery grows.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ As a muslim (spelled sometimes as Moslem) I must say that Muslims strong ly believe in Jesus. Refered in islamic text as eesau(as) Jesus ==> J - esu - s ===> esu (pronounced eee-saw) Yah we knew him well. Ideally, this war should not even be. And even in a time of war, our goal is peace. We should try to refrain from viloating the peace of others as then if we do violate, we will not have peace in ourselves. I don't like this war eaither, It is a conflict of territory. Croats, Muslims, and Serbs lived together before in peace. The rallying point is 'race'. And Im sure that there is a General out there who wouldn't mind being a president. -- Mohammad R. Khan / khan0095@nova.gmi.edu After July '93, please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu
Is there a typical component or set of components that are at fault when a switch mode power supply goes south? The supply is for a disk drive. Any general hints would be appreciated! Thanks! Mark-Tarbell@suite.com at fault when a switch mode power supply goes south? The supply is for a disk drive. Any general hints would be appreciated!
My news feed is broken and I haven't received any new news in 243 hours (more than 10 days). So, if you reply to this, please send private email to the address esther@demand.ed.ray.com -- I have set the Reply-To line to have that address but I don't know if it will work. [It depends upon the software, but generally I wouldn't expect reply-to to cause an email cc to be sent in addition to a posting. You'll probably need to do something specific, which will vary depending upon your news software. --clh] At any rate, I need some support. (Much thanks to Jayne K who is already supporting me with kind words and prayers!) I've been working at this company for eight years in various engineering jobs. I'm female. Yesterday I counted and realized that on seven different occasions I've been sexually harrassed at this company. Seven times. Eight years. Yesterday was the most recent one; someone left an X-rated photo of a nude woman in my desk drawer. I'm really upset by this. I suppose it could have been worse -- it could have been a man having sex with a sheep or something. There was no note. I do not know if it was: - someone's idea of an innocent joke, that went awry - someone's sick idea of flirting - an act of emotional terrorism (that worked!) I dreaded coming back to work today. What if my boss comes in to ask me some kind of question, I don't know the answer so I take a military specification down off from my shelf to look up the answer, and out falls a picture of a man having sex with a sheep? I generally have a Bible on my desk for occasional inspiration; what if I open it up to Corinthians and find a picture a la the North American Man Boy Love Association? I want to throw up just thinking about this stuff. I can lock up my desk, but I can't lock up every book I have in the office. I can't trust that someone won't shove something into my briefcase or my coat pocket when I'm not looking so that I go home to find such a picture, or a threat, or a raunchy note about what someone wants to do to my body. To make it worse, the entire department went out to lunch yesterday to treat our marvelous secretary to lunch. The appointed hour for leaving was 11:30. I was working in another building but wanted to go to the lunch. So I returned at 11:25, only to find that ever single person had already left for lunch. They left at 11:15 or so. No one could be bothered to call me at the other building, even though my number was posted. So, I came back to a department that looked like a neutron bomb had gone off and I was the sole survivor. This, despite the fact that everyone knew how bad I felt about this naked woman being left in my desk drawer. I need some prayers --- I can't stop crying. I am so deeply wounded that it's ridiculous. I feel like I'm some kind of sub-human piece of garbage for people to reduce me and my sisters to simply sex organs and the sex act. I feel like I'm a sub-human piece of garbage that's not worthy of a simple phone call saying "We're leaving for Mary's lunch a little early so that Bob can get back for a big 1:00 meeting..." Please pray that my resentments will either go away, or be miraculously turned into something positive. Please pray that whoever is torturing me so will stop, and find some healing for him- or herself. Please pray for my being healed from this latest wound (which falls on top of a whole slew of other wounds...). Please pray that I can find a new job in a place where the corporate culture does its best to prevent such harrassment from happening in the first place, and swiftly acts appropriately when something occurs despite its best precautions. (This company, in my opinion, has pretty words about how sexual harrassment isn't tolerated but when you get right down to it, how is it that one female engineer can be touched inappropriately, left obsene or threatening notes, left obscene pictures, spoken to lewdly, etc, seven times in eight years in the same place? Pretty words from the company do me no good when I'm terrified or healing from the latest assault.) And please pray that I don't turn into an automaton because of this. That's my bad habit: "ignore it and it will go away", "you're not worth anyone's time so don't go talking to anyone about this", "you're right, you are a sub-human piece of garbage and deserve to be treated this way", "you are just an object", "you prostitute your mind to this company so why can't others expect you to prostitute your body there as well?", "what makes you think women aren't just possessions, and nothing more than sex organs and their ability to perform the sex act?" This is the kind of thinking that can catapault one into a major depressive episode; please pray that these thoughts don't come into my head and stay there, triggering depression. Please pray that this latest trauma doesn't come between me and God. In a way, a wound like this is an invitation to a deeper connection to God, and it's also a possible trigger for a spiritual crisis that can separate one mentally from God. (I know God doesn't drop me from his loving hand, but it's awfully easy for me to walk to the edge of the hand, look down, think I'm falling and forget that God's still holding on to me.) Although this probably isn't entirely appropriate for this newsgroup, I really can use the kind of loving support you all provide. For this reason I hope good Mr. Moderator allows me this latest indulgence. After all, he's allowed me the thermometer note, and a few other off-the-wall topics. Thanks in advance to everyone for your support and prayers. Peace to you, Esther
Forsale: SONY MHC-3600 HI-FI Bookshelf stereo system -9 months old -CD player -2 tape decks -Digital graphic equilizer -Tuner -4 speakers 60watts/channel -TOP OF THE LINE SONY BOOKSHELF SYSTEM Includes amazing remote that actually splits into two! Everything can be done from the remote (remote has digital display!). Has the highest quality sound-amazing bass! Not one scratch on system. VERY WELL TAKEN CARE OF. Originally purchased for $1299 + tax. I need cash, and I am looking to get around $750 for it. Since I really need the money, I will sell it to the person who gives me the highest offer, and I WILL ACCEPT THE BEST OFFER if not $750. Buyer pays insured shipping. Reply soon if intereseted.
Er, without a bike (Ed, maybe you ought to respond to this...), how you gonna get there? If yer going by cage, what's this got to do with r.m? Maybe somebody oughta gang-tool-FAQ this guy, hmmm?
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release April 14, 1993 PRESIDENT NAMES OFFICIALS AT TRANSPORTATION, COMMERCE, DEFENSE, AND OPIC (Washington, DC) President Clinton announced his intention today to nominate Albert Herberger to be Administrator of the Federal Maritime Administration, Loretta Dunn to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Import Administration, and Christopher Finn to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Additionally, he has approved the appointments of Joan Yim to be Deputy Administrator of the Federal Maritime Administration, Alice Maroni to be Principal Deputy Comptroller of the Department of Defense, and Deborah Castelman to be Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, and Communications. "We are continuing to move forward with putting together a government of excellent, diverse Americans who share my commitment to changing the way that Washington works," said the President. "These six people I am naming today fit that bill." Biographical sketches of the nominees are attached. ### BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES OF NOMINEES April 14, 1993 Albert Herberger, a thirty-five year Navy veteran who retired with the rank of Vice Admiral, is the Vice President of the International Planning and Analysis Center (IPAC). Among the positions he held during his naval service were Deputy Commander- in-Chief of the U.S. Transportation Command, Director of Logistics on Staff for the Atlantic Fleet Commander-in-Chief, and Director of the Military Personnel Policy Division for the Office of Naval Operations. A surface warfare expert and a merchant marine officer with over eighteen years operational experience, Herberger is also Vice Chairman of the National Defense Transportation Association's Sealift Committee. He is a graduate of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the Naval Postgraduate School. Loretta Dunn has served on the staff of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation since 1979. Since 1983 she has been the Committee's Senior Trade Counsel, responsible for drafting trade legislation and reports, planning and conducting hearings, managing legislation on the Senate floor and in conferences with the House, overseeing a variety of executive branch agencies, including the Department of Commerce. She was previously a Staff Counsel for the Committee. Dunn holds a B.A. in History from the University of Kentucky, a J.D. from the University of Kentucky College of Law, and an L.M. from the Georgetown University Law Center. Christopher Finn is the Executive Vice President of Equities for the American Stock Exchange. Previous positions he has held have included Senior Vice President of the Air and Water Technologies Corporation, Chief of Staff to Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, Deputy Commissioner of the New York State Department of Economic Development, and Chief Legislative Aide to Congressman James R. Jones. Finn is a graduate of Harvard College. Joan Yim is a professional planner with over 17 years experience in community based planning, policy analysis, project design and management, inter-agency coordination and government affairs. From 1975-92, she was with the Hawaii Office of State Planning as a planner on issues relating to natural resource and coastal zone management and public infrastructure financing, among other issues. Currently, she is Supervising Planner with the Honolulu firm of Parsons Brinckerhogg Quade & Douglas. Before going to work for the state, she was Executive Neighborhood Commission Secretary for the City and County of Honolulu, and Chair on the Kaneohe Community Planning Committee. A Democratic National committeewoman, Yim holds a B.A. from Connecticut College and pursued graduate studies at the University of Hawaii. (more) April 14, 1993 page two Alice Maroni is a professional staff member of the House Armed Services Committee specializing in defense budget issues. She previously worked as a national defense specialist in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division of the Congressional Research Service, and as an international risk analyst for Rockwell International. She has written extensively on defense budget related topics. Maroni received her B.A. from Mount Holyoke College, and an M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. She has also completed the senior service program at the National War College and Harvard's Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security. Deborah Castleman is currently on leave from RAND, where she is a Space and Defense Policy Analyst. She was an advisor to the Clinton/Gore campaign on space, science and technology, and national security issues. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Castleman held engineering positions with the Hughes Space and Communications Group, General Dynamics, and Electrac, Inc. She served as an Avionics Technician in the Air Force from 1974-77. Castleman holds a B.S. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from California State Polytechnic University, M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology, and M.A. in International Studies from Claremont Graduate School.
Gravity. It'll never let you down, er up, er... Lesson: Put your helmet on the ground or your head. If you put it on the ground, it isn't gonna fall down _to_ the ground. If you put it on your head, well... tom coradeschi <+> tcora@pica.army.mil
TRIAD, the first drag-free satellite, was designed and built by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory and launched 2 Sept 1972. The satellite was in three sections separated by two booms. The central section housed the DISCOS Disturbance Compensation System, which consisted of a proof mass of special non-magnetic alloy housed within a spherical cavity. The proof mass flew a true gravitational orbit, free from drag and radiation pressure. Teflon microthrusters kept the body of the satellite centered around the proof mass, thereby flying the entire satellite drag free. TRIAD was one of the APL-designed Navy Navigation Satellites. The 2nd-generation operational navigation satellites flying today (NOVA) use a single-axis version of DISCOS. TRIAD was also the sixth APL satellite to be powered by an RTG (APL flew the first nuclear power supply in space, in 1961). Further info on TRIAD, DISCOS, etc. can be found in "Spacecraft Design Innovations in the APL Space Department," Johns Hopkins APL Technical Digest, Vol. 13, No. 1 (1992).
Does anyone have any experience using XRunner, CAPBAK/X, or PreVueX as an automated test tool for X? Please email me directly with opinions (both positive and negative). Ann Freeman Siemens Industrial Automation, Inc. Johnson City, TN
The FAN is an okay Sports Radio station, but doesn't come close to the ULTIMATE in Sports Radio, 610 WIP in Philadelphia. The signal might not be as powerful, but then again only stations in New York feel "obligated" to pollute everyone else's airwaves with a bunch of hoodlum Mets fans complaining 24 hours a day. WIP took two of your best sports jockeys too, Jody MacDonald and Steve Fredericks. 610 WIP is rockin with sports talk from 5:30 AM till midnight, check it out anytime your within a few hours of Philadelphia. If I'm not mistaken, WIP has the highest sports talk ratings in the nation? -Rob
Could you explain what any of this pertains to? Is this a position statement on something or typing practice? And why are you using my name, do you think this relates to anything I've said and if so, what.
Southern California RideList -- 4/14/93 Please send me any updates to this ride list. Remember, only street rides that are open to all bikers are posted. Please inc. phone # for further info. Also, send me your e-mail address if you want mailed copies of this list. I suggest calling first to make sure that info is current. If you find out further info, please let me know. I strive for accuracy but cannot be responsible for errors. e-mail address: paulb@harley.tti.com --------- c&d = coffee & donuts; Mx = Live Music; f&d = food & drinks available; * = changes since last posting; ** Address at end of posting
Forwarded from Doug Griffith, Magellan Project Manager MAGELLAN STATUS REPORT April 23, 1993 1. The Magellan spacecraft continues to operate normally, gathering gravity data to plot the density variations of Venus in the mid-latitudes. The solar panel offpoint was returned to zero degrees and spacecraft temperatures dropped 2-3 degrees C. 2. An end-to-end test of the Delayed Aerobraking Data readout process was conducted this week in preparation for the Transition Experiment. There was some difficulty locking up to the data frames, and engineers are presently checking whether the problem was in equipment at the tracking station. 3. Magellan has completed 7277 orbits of Venus and is now 32 days from the end of Cycle 4 and the start of the Transition Experiment. 4. Magellan scientists were participating in the Brown-Vernadsky Microsymposium at Brown University in Providence, RI, this week. This joint meeting of U.S. and Russian Venus researchers has been continuing for many years.
In regard to Woody's post, I thought I would remind him of something in the midst of his tirade against academia: As a member of the generation likely to pay for the crap Reagan and his cronies started with the deficit according to the brilliant Laffer curve (NOT!) I think we need to look with open minds upon any ideas which will allow us to directly address the problems of the gigantic federal deficit and debt and continue to allow our economy to expand--and I don't remember Woody and co. complaining about academia while Laffer implemented his policy, Stockman approved it while being fully aware the numbers not adding up, and Reagan completing the largest con job of the century which my generation and I will now have to pay for.
Mike> Is it possible to do a "wheelie" on a motorcycle with shaft-drive? Sure. In fact, you can do a wheelie on a shaft-drive motorcycle without even moving. Just don't try countersteering. :-)
And the two simplest refutations are these: (1) What impact? The only record of impact comes from the New Testament. I have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate, and that the recorded "impact" actually happened. I find it interesting that no other contemporary source records an eclipse, an earthquake, a temple curtain being torn, etc. The earliest written claim we have of Jesus' resurrection is from the Pauline epistles, none of which were written sooner than 20 years after the supposed event. (2) It seems probable that no one displayed the body of Jesus because no one knew where it was. I personally believe that the most likely explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples, or by graverobbers). Don't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one gospel, and seems like exactly the sort of thing early Christians might make up in order to counter the grave-robbing charge. The New Testament does record that Jews believed the body had been stolen. If there were really guards, they could not have effectively made this claim, as they did.
Easy Rider (harleys, drugs, rednecks, New Orleans), Mad Max (violence, DoD wanna-be's), Time Rider (Honda Thumper, Time travel), On Any Sunday (Documentary about dirtbike racers, GREAT!), The (Great?) Escape (Steve Mcqueen, Nazis), Rebel Without a Cause (James Dean, future DoD'ers). I think the last two are right, they are OLD movies I haven't seen in YEARS. ----===== DoD #8177 = Technician(Dr. Speed) .NOT. Student =====----
I am thinking about getting an Infiniti G20. In consumer reports it is ranked high in many catagories including highest in reliability index for compact cars. Mitsubushi Galant was second followed by Honda Accord). A couple of things though: 1) In looking around I have yet to see anyone driving this car. I see lots of Honda's and Toyota's. 2) There is a special deal where I can get an Infinity G20, fully loaded, at dealer cost (I have check this out and the numbers match up). They are doing this because they are releasing and update mid-1993 version (includes dual air-bags) and want to get rid of their old 1993's. I guess my question is: Is this a good deal? Also, Can anyone give me any feedback on Infiniti? Thanks, Carl Hoffman P.S.
If a large Malmute counts then yes someone has heard(and seen) such an irresponsible childish stunt. The dog needed assistance straightening out once on board. The owner would lift the front legs of dog and throw them over the driver/pilots shoulders. Said dog would get shit eating grin on its face and away they'd go. The dogs ass was firmly planted on the seat. My dog and this dog actively seek each other out at camping party's. They hate each other. I think it's something personal.
I don't know how many hours you've spent on this, but the Sun User Group makes X11R5 available on CD-ROM to its members. The 1992.1 disk has both sources and binaries and it sells for $50. I've tagged a table of contents and an orderform on below if anyone's interested. Alex Newman ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Alex Newman (617) 232-0514 voice My life may be stressful, troll@sug.org (617) 232-1347 fax but at least it's not boring Sun User Group * 1330 Beacon St., #315 * Brookline, MA 02146 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- SUG CD 1992.1 is X11R5 and GNU on a CDROM, priced at $50 to SUG members, including a caddy! SUG's emphasis has always been on supplying the greatest possible service and value-added to our members. Last year, the SUG 1991 disk contained plug-and-play X11R4, 20MB of additional essential binaries, almost 200MB of Sun patches, fully-indexed archives of Sun-related net postings, priced at only $250. Our aim this year has been to reduce the price for disks which can be produced inexpensively, but to continue to supply as much value-added as possible. To accomplish this, we will be putting out a two disk set, the first containing what's ready and needed now, the second available later in '92, containing more SPARC binaries and other useful material not found on previous disks. The SUG 1992.1 disk, which was assembled by Robert A. Bruce, contains a lot of essential source code, and we decided it would be a great service to make it available right away to our members (and this pricing makes this a good opportunity to become a member!) for $50 per disk (including one of those hard-to-find caddies!). If you are not a SUG member, you can become one for an additional $40 if you live within the US or $55 outside. The SUG 1992.1 CDROM is an ISO 9660 disk (which means it can be used by PC, Macintosh, and other workstations as well), and contains a total of 543MB of material, including: X11R5 SOURCES AND CORE BINARIES (for SPARC) as of several weeks after the initial distribution, thus, four fixes and the the MIT contrib-0 distribution are included (109MB of material). Binaries for: X Xsun XsunMono appres atobm auto_box bdftopcf beach_ball bitmap bmtoa constype editres fs fsinfo fslsfonts fstobdf ico imake kbd_mode listres lndir makedepend maze mkdirhier mkfontdir oclock plbpex puzzle resize showfont showrgb startx twm viewres x11perf x11perfcomp xauth xbiff xcalc xclipboard xclock xcmsdb xcmstest xconsole xcutsel xditview xdm xdpr xdpyinfo xedit xev xeyes xfd xfontsel xgas xgc xhost xinit xkill xload xlogo xlsatoms xlsclients xlsfonts xmag xman xmh xmkmf xmodmap xon xpr xprop xrdb xrefresh xset xsetroot xstdcmap xterm xwd xwininfo xwud COPIES OF CONTRIBUTED X SOURCES (from export.lcs.mit.edu/contrib), which were then uncompressed/untarred into source directories (212MB). These are sources only, and some of them were (after the date of production of this disk) included in the MIT contrib-2 and contrib-3 distributions. GNU SOURCES WHICH WERE uncompressed/untarred into source directories (88MB). SPARC BINARIES (and needed libraries) for these GNU programs: a2p ar as basename bash bison cat cc1 cc1plus chgrp chmod chown ci cmp co comm compress cp cpio cpp ctags cut cvs date dd df diff diff3 dir dirname du egrep elvis emacs env etags expand expr fgrep find find2perl flex fold g++ g++dep g++filt gawk gcc gdb ginstall gnuchess gnuchessn gnuchessr gnugo gnuplot gnuplot_x11 gprof grep h2ph head id ident indent ispell ld ld++ less ln locate logname ls m4 make merge mkdir mkfifo mkmodules mknod mt mv nice nm oleo paste pathchk perl pr printenv printf ranlib rcs rcsdiff rcsinfo rcsmerge rcstest ref refont rlog rm rmdir rmt s2p screen sed size sleep split strip stty sum tac tail taintperl tar tee test time touch tput tty uname unexpand uniq vdir virec whoami xargs xchess yes zmore AN ARCHIVE OF COMP.SOURCE.X postings, volume 0 through volume14 (58MB). Parts are supplied just as posted. You get to put together the pieces, compile, install, etc. Cost: SUG members: $50; Non-members: additional $40 within the US, $55 elsewhere Shipping & Handling: $10 inside the USA; $25 elsewhere Mail to: Sun User Group, Inc. Suite 315 1330 Beacon Street Brookline, MA 02146 USA (617) 232-0514 voice (617) 232-1347 fax The Sun User Group also accepts Visa and MasterCard via telephone or electronically. --------------------- cut here and return completed form --------------------- The SUGCD 1992.1 ORDER FORM The price of the CD is $50. Shipping and handling: Add $10 (USA) or $25 (Intl.) If you are not a member of the Sun User Group, add $40 (USA) or $55 (International) to the above sums for membership. You must be a SUG member to purchase the CD-ROM. I enclose a US $ check for: __$ 60 (SUG member in the USA) __$ 75 (SUG member outside the USA) __$100 (Includes membership inside the USA) __$130 (Includes international membership) Name__________________________________ Signature___________________________ Company Name_______________________________________________________________ SUG Membership #(if known)_________________________________________________ Electronic Mail Address____________________________________________________ Telephone Number___________________________________________________________ Check Enclosed_____ Mastercard_____ Visa_____ Credit Card #__________________________________ Exp. date.________________ Card Holder:__________________________ Signature:__________________________ Ship to: Bill to: ______________________________________ ___________________________________ ______________________________________ ___________________________________ ______________________________________ ___________________________________ ______________________________________ ___________________________________ ------------------------------------------------------------------------- [ ] I hereby authorize the Sun User Group to renew my membership and charge my credit card automatically on an annual basis. [ ] I do not wish my name to be included in non-Sun User Group mailings. [ ] I do not wish my name to be published in the Sun User Group member directory. [ ] I wish to be added to the Sun User Group electronic mailing-list (members only) OUTSIDE THE U.S. ONLY: Individuals outside of the USA may find using their credit cards easier than purchasing US$ checks as this eliminates bank charges. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sun User Group 1330 Beacon Street, Suite 315 Brookline, MA 02146
: : No. I make a distinction between working for yourself to survive and : paying dues to Mother Nature in the form of labour and working for : Joe propertyowner because you do not have the option of working for : yourself. Joe propertyowner stands between you and the earth you : work and expects you to pay him *and* mother nature for the right : to survive. The property laws create a layer of parasites that get : fat on the fact that people have *no option* except to work in : factories. : I want people to be able to get the things they need in life. Property ownership may not be ideal, but it is far better at letting people get what they need to live a productive, fulfulling life. The first experiment in America, where property ownership was denied, caused, starvation, hunger, and death. Few people know that the Pilgrims originally tried to have common property to grow food and a common food store. Many people know the hardships they suffered the first few winters because of it. After arriving, the Pilgrims made all property common. They all shared in the work and the resulting crops went into a common store. After much debate the new Governor Bradford privitized the land; assigning plots to each family. According to Perry D. Westbrook: "The change was immediately justified by the increased industry of the inhabitants and by the larger acreage planted." experience that was had in this common course and condition, tried sundry years and that amongst godly and sober men, may well evince the vanity of that conceit of Plato's and other ancients applauded by some of later times; that the taking away of property and bringing in community into a commonwealth would make them happy and flourishing; as if they were wiser than God. For this community (so far as it was) was found to breed much confusion and discontent and retard much employment that would have been to their benefit and comfort." Bradford did not blame this failure on the "strangers", but on the basic selfishness in all men. He wrote "seeing all men have this corruption in them, God in his wisdom saw another course fitter for them." In other words, according to Westbrook, "Bradford found private enterprise to be the most suitable economic policy for mankind in its fallen state." Let's not make the same mistake that the Pilgrims made. Private property allows a society to flourish, the alternative brings starvation, poverty and discontent.
: >: English cars:- : > : >: Rover, Reliant, Morgan, Bristol, Rolls Royce, etc. : > ^^^^^^ : > Talk about Harleys using old technology, these : >Morgan people *really* like to use old technology. : Well, if you want to pick on Morgan, why not attack its ash (wood) : frame or its hand-bent metal skin (just try and get a replacement :-)). : I thought the kingpost suspension was one of the Mog's better features. Hey! I wasn't picking on Morgan. They use old technology. That's all I said. There's nothing wrong with using old technology. People still use shovels to dig holes even though there are lots of new powered implements to dig holes with.
Sorry, but I saw a survey somewhere that showed that America's favorite team is the Damn Yankees. So much for the underdogs being loved.
# ## Face it, Clayton, he was not found guilty, and so what if gays sometimes # ## make it consensually with 16 year old boys. There ARE 16 year old gays, you # ## know. And as I recall, the case of the state rested on the testimony of one # ## "victim" who declined to testify, even under threat. I have had teens since # ## I was 40, and so have a lot of people. Face it Clayton, you're just a jerk! # ## -RSW # ## -- # ## * Richard STEVEn Walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429-1200 * # ## * 515 Maple Street #1 * Without safe and free abortion women are * # ## * Santa Cruz, CA 95060 organ-surrogates to unwanted parasites.* * # # # #I am always amazed to see people admit to breaking the law -- and # #putting their address in the signature. Please tell us more about # #this. Were they 13? 14? Would you like to make a statement for # #the district attorney? # # I had sex with a 13 year old boy, it was great, we did *everything*, # well, a hell of a lot. It was fun anyway. Oh, and before you turn # purple with rage I was 12 at the time. # #-- # #Clayton E. Cramer {uunet,pyramid}!optilink!cramer My opinions, all mine! The Walz monster above, however, was past 40 when he molested these kids, as he says above.
I have a novell 2.0a that I will sell for $692 which can be upgraded to 3.11 for $460. The novell has complete documentation but no network cards except the ID card. --
I didnot know that "Master of wisdom" can be "name clling" too, unless you consider yourself deserve-less ! That was only to confuse you! (ha ha ha hey ) ^^^^^^^ are you trying to retaliate and confuse me here. First, my above statement doesnot say that "the existence of israeli citizens in the WB revoke their right of life" but it says "the israeli occupation of the WB revoke the right of life for some/most its citizens - basically revokes the right of for its military men". Clearly, occupation is an undeclared war; during war, attacks against military targets are fully legitimate. Secondly, surely israeli have human rights, but they ask their goverment to protect it by withdrawing from the occupied terretories, not by further oppressing Palestinean human rights. Because not all states are like Israel, as oppressive, as ignorant, or as tyrant. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ So you agree that that an israeli solution wouldnot preserve human rights. (i am understanding this from your first statement in this paragraph). Exactly, you are right. I guess that the problem is that the israeli goverment is full with men like Joseph Weitz. Above you wrote that you understood what i meant (underlined by ^ ): any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would resolve it JUSTLY. You are proving yourself as a " ". First you understood what i meant, but then you claim you didnot so to claim a contradiction in my logic. Too bad for you, the Master of Wisdom. Why do you feel ashamed by things and facts that you believe in , if you were a Zionists. If you believe in Zionist codes and acts, well i feel sorry for you, because the same Rabbi Shoham had said "Yes, Zionism is racism". If you feel ashamed and bothered by the Zionist codes, then drop Zionism. If you are not Zionist, why are you bothered then. You should join me in condemning these racist Zionist codes and acts. Hasan
Except for their size, the cooling towers on nuclear power plants are vertually identical in construction and operation to cooling towers designed and built in the 1890's (a hundred years ago) for coal fired power plants used for lighting and early electric railways. Basicly, the cylindrical tower supports a rapid air draft when its air is heated by hot water and/or steam circulating thru a network of pipes that fill about the lower 1/3 of the tower. To assist cooling and the draft, water misters are added that spray cold water over the hot pipes. The cold water evaporates, removing the heat faster than just air flow from the draft would and the resulting water vapor is rapidly carried away by the draft. This produces the clouds frequently seen rising out of these towers. That slight pinch (maybe 2/3 of the way up the tower) is there because it produces a very significant increase in the strength and rate of the air draft produced, compared to a straight cylinder shape. The towers are used to recondense the steam in the sealed steam system of the power plant so that it can be recirculated back to the boiler and used again. The wider the temperature difference across the turbines used in the power plant the more effecient they are and by recondensing the steam in the cooling towers before sending it back to the boilers you maintain a very wide temperature difference (sometimes as high as 1000 degrees or more from first stage "hot" turbine to final stage "cold" turbine). R. Tim Coslet
Anyone care to speculate on this? I'll let the rest of the net judge this on its own merits. Between 1914 and 1920, 2.5 million Turks perished of butchery at the hands of Armenians. The genocide involved not only the killing of innocents but their forcible deportation from the Russian Armenia. They were persecuted, banished, and slaughtered while much of Ottoman Army was engaged in World War I. The Genocide Treaty defines genocide as acting with a 'specific intent to destroy, in whole or in substantial part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group.' History shows that the x-Soviet Armenian Government intended to eradicate the Muslim population. 2.5 million Turks and Kurds were exterminated by the Armenians. International diplomats in Ottoman Empire at the time - including U.S. Ambassador Bristol - denounced the x-Soviet Armenian Government's policy as a massacre of the Kurds, Turks, and Tartars. The blood-thirsty leaders of the x-Soviet Armenian Government at the time personally involved in the extermination of the Muslims. The Turkish genocide museums in Turkiye honor those who died during the Turkish massacres perpetrated by the Armenians. The eyewitness accounts and the historical documents established, beyond any doubt, that the massacres against the Muslim people during the war were planned and premeditated. The aim of the policy was clearly the extermination of all Turks in x-Soviet Armenian territories. The Muslims of Van, Bitlis, Mus, Erzurum and Erzincan districts and their wives and children have been taken to the mountains and killed. The massacres in Trabzon, Tercan, Yozgat and Adana were organized and perpetrated by the blood-thirsty leaders of the x-Soviet Armenian Government. The principal organizers of the slaughter of innocent Muslims were Dro, Antranik, Armen Garo, Hamarosp, Daro Pastirmadjian, Keri, Karakin, Haig Pajise-liantz and Silikian. Source: "Bristol Papers", General Correspondence: Container #32 - Bristol to Bradley Letter of September 14, 1920. "I have it from absolute first-hand information that the Armenians in the Caucasus attacked Tartar (Turkish) villages that are utterly defenseless and bombarded these villages with artillery and they murder the inhabitants, pillage the village and often burn the village." Sources: (The Ottoman State, the Ministry of War), "Islam Ahalinin Ducar Olduklari Mezalim Hakkinda Vesaike Mustenid Malumat," (Istanbul, 1918). The French version: "Documents Relatifs aux Atrocites Commises par les Armeniens sur la Population Musulmane," (Istanbul, 1919). In the Latin script: H. K. Turkozu, ed., "Osmanli ve Sovyet Belgeleriyle Ermeni Mezalimi," (Ankara, 1982). In addition: Z. Basar, ed., "Ermenilerden Gorduklerimiz," (Ankara, 1974) and, edited by the same author, "Ermeniler Hakkinda Makaleler - Derlemeler," (Ankara, 1978). "Askeri Tarih Belgeleri ...," Vol. 32, 83 (December 1983), document numbered 1881. "Askeri Tarih Belgeleri ....," Vol. 31, 81 (December 1982), document numbered 1869. "Those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning with the excuse of forced labor in road construction, they were taken in the direction of Sarikamis and annihilated. When the Russian army withdrew, a part of the remaining people was destroyed in Armenian massacres and cruelties: they were thrown into wells, they were locked in houses and burned down, they were killed with bayonets and swords, in places selected as butchering spots, their bellies were torn open, their lungs were pulled out, and girls and women were hanged by their hair after being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. A very small part of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to. Including women and children, such persons discovered so far do not exceed one thousand five hundred in Erzincan and thirty thousand in Erzurum. All the fields in Erzincan and Erzurum are untilled, everything that the people had has been taken away from them, and we found them in a destitute situation. At the present time, the people are subsisting on some food they obtained, impelled by starvation, from Russian storages left behind after their occupation of this area." Serdar Argic
I am not Mathew (Mantis) but any (successful) first year logic student will see that you are logically correct, the other poster is logically incorrect.
etc. etc..... ^^^^^^ ***Sure!!! And what's .3 of a woman??? Any hypothesis?? How can you trust a report from people that have *no idea* of what a MEDIAN is? The same bullshit article reported that 22,5% of all the men have sex 10 times or more a week (Elf, how many times did you fill one of those questionnaires?) and had other statistics that took in no consideration different class backgrounds, marital status etc. No information on sampling were given. Do you think you can compare so lightly secondary data from 2 very different (and discutible) surveys??? It just shows how dramatically ignorant are press release writers and most pople that read them.....
Hi, baseball fans! So what do you say? Don't you think he deserves it? I mean, heck, if Dave Winfield (ho-hum) is seriously being considered for it, as is Lee Smith (ha), then why don't we give Dave Kingman a chance? Or Darrell Evans! Yeah, yeah! After the Hall of Fame takes in them, it can take in Eddie Murray and Jeff Reardon. Well, in any case, I am sick and tired (mostly sick) of everybody giving Hall of Fame consideration to players that are by today's standards, marginal. Honestly, Ozzie Smith and Robin Yount don't belong there. They're both shortstops that just hung around for a long time. Big deal. Let's be a little more selective, huh? Stop handing out these honors so liberally. Save them for the guys who really deserve it. Face it, if something isn't done, there will be little prestige in the Hall of Fame anymore. When certain individuals believe that Steve Garvey or Jack Morris are potential candidates, the absurdity is apparent. Gee, can these guys even compare to the more likely future Hall of Famers like Kirby Puckett or Nolan Ryan?
One of the local dealers has a used (7k miles) '93 Probe GT on the lot with a photocopy of a document taped to the window saying the dealership bought the car back from the previous owner because of "Engine noises", but that the Ford district rep had OK'ed the car saying those noises were "normal". I thought it was worth looking into (the car seems otherwise clean) and mentioned this to a co-worker, who proceeded to tell me a horror story about her son's '93 Probe GT, which had several problems, ending with engine noises which she said "was something with the heads", that Ford acknowledged the noise, said they were working on it, but didn't have a cure as of yet. Her son traded the car in (and I checked -- not the same car). So I have some evidence of a reoccuring problem with the V6 in the Probe GT's, and by extension with the Madza 626 and MX-6.
Yeah, I loved the vent windows on my 82 Escort (hell, the only thing I liked about the car). One of the things I'd like to see brought back. Does anyone know if they're an option on the new Escorts?
Hi all, I really thought that by now I would have seen something about this, but I haven't, so here goes: Last night on the evening news, the anchorperson said something to the effect that one of the SSRBs that was recovered after the recent space shuttle launch was found to have a wrench of some sort rattling around apparently inside the case. There was no elaboration as to where specfically the item was found, of what type of wrench it was, but the anchorperson did say something about a NASA official commenting that there would be an inquiry into how the thing got in the SSRB. Has anybody else on the net whose info sources may be better than mine heard anything about this? It seems rather weird.
ROLAND JUNO 60- SYNTHESIZER. EXCELLENT CONDITION. GREAT FAT ANALOG SOUND. USED IN THE SONG "JUMP" BY VAN HALEN. $300 OR BEST OFFER UNIDEN RD-9XL RADAR DETECTOR- EXCELLENT CONDITION. DON'T BE CAUGHT BY THE COPS! $50 OR BEST OFFER! SMALLER THAN A CREDIT CARD. COMPACT! FOR THE KEYBOARD EMAIL GREG.PARK@DARTMOUTH.EDU FOR THE RADAR EMAIL RICH.LEE@DARTMOUTH.EDU
Ok. My Aykut., what about the busload of Greek turists that was torched, and all the the people in the buis died. Happened oh, about 5 years ago in Instanbul. What about the Greeks in the islands of Imbros and tenedos, they are not allowed to have churches any more, instead momama turkey has turned the church into a warehouse, I got a picture too. What about the pontian Greeks of Trapezounta and Sampsounta, what you now call Trabzon and Sampson, they spoke a 2 thousand year alod language, are there any left that still speek or were they Islamicised? Before we start another flamefest , and before you start quoting Argic all over again, or was it somebody else?, please think. I know it is a hard thing to do for somebody not equipped , but try nevertheless. If Turks in Greece were so badly mistreated how come they elected two,m not one but two, representatives in the Greek government? How come they have free(absolutely free) hospitalization and education? Do the Turks in Turkey have so much?If they do then you have every right to shout, untill then you can also move to Greece and enjoy those privileges. But I forget , for you do study in a foreign university, some poor shod is tiling the earth with his own sweat. BTW is Aziz Nessin still writing poetry? I'd like to read some of his new stuff. Also who was the guy that wrote "On the mountains of Tayros." ? please respond kindly to the last two questions, I am interested in finding more books from these two people.
Lot's of these small miners are no longer miners. THey are people living rent free on Federal land, under the claim of being a miner. The facts are many of these people do not sustaint heir income from mining, do not often even live their full time, and do fotentimes do a fair bit of environmental damage. These minign statutes were created inthe 1830's-1870's when the west was uninhabited and were designed to bring people into the frontier. Times change people change. DEAL. you don't have a constitutional right to live off the same industry forever. Anyone who claims the have a right to their job in particular, is spouting nonsense. THis has been a long term federal welfare program, that has outlived it's usefulness.
For Sale...: **BRAND NEW** Hewlett Packard toner cartridge model number HP 92295A. o I am selling this toner because I recently bought a Brother HL-10V printer and the toner that I am selling. I activated the toner, but ended up returning the printer. The store, however would not take back the toner. This toner has been used to print only three pages and is in perfect condition. I will protect it for shipment so that no toner escapes. It comes with all original packaging and manuals. The toner is compatible with ANY laser printer that uses the model number of the toner I am selling; just look in your manual to see if it will work for you. I will not go below $60.00. I will pay the shipping to anywhere in the continental United States. If you are interested, leave me email or call Kirk Peterson at (303) 494-7951 anytime.
: My 9 yr old son has signed up to do a science report on batteries. I was : wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to : construct a home-built battery. In my grade school days, I remember seeing : the 'ice cube tray' version, but I don't remember what to use as a good : electrolyte or what the easily obtainable metals were. : : Thank you in advance. I remember watching a whole "Mr. Wizzard" program on this subject when I was a kid. The battery constructed on the program which made the biggest impression on me, and generated the most power, was made using a galvanized bucket (for the zinc) and a copper toilet tank float. The electrolyte was sauerkraut!
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary _____________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 14, 1993 PRESS BRIEFING BY GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS The Briefing Room 12:40 P.M. EDT MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I guess I'm just prepared to take questions today. Q George, Bob Dole says that the Clinton administration's policy on Bosnia is a failure and that he wants the United States to take the lead in lifting the arms embargo so that the Bosnian Muslims can defend themselves. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: As you know, President Clinton has said that that suggestion is under active consideration. Obviously, this is a tragic situation in Bosnia. And if the Bosnian Serbs don't come to the negotiating table in a constructive way, we'll look seriously at pressing for lifting the arms embargo. In the meantime, we're going to continue to press for a tough sanctions resolution in the U.N. We're going to continue to work on the Serbs to come to the negotiating table. But the prospect of an arms embargo is something the President certainly will consider if the Serbs don't come to the table. Q How much longer are you going to give them to come to the table, George? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We're working on that right now. Q It's been a long time. Q On February 19th, the President mentioned the value added tax in Ohio. And when he was asked about it later by reporters, he said -- quote -- "That is a radical change in the tax system of the United States. It's something I think we may have to look at in the years ahead." Questioned again about it later he says, "It is not something that is now under consideration. If we start considering it, I'll tell you." It wasn't a trial balloon or anything, he said. I was just discussing the tax response to a question. Donna Shalala, quoted in USA Today this morning -- quote - - "Certainly we're looking at a VAT." What's gone on? Q The same with Alice Rivlin this morning. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The health care task force is reviewing a number of options. They haven't made any decisions yet. And as I have said from this podium time and time again, we're not going to comment on decisions that haven't been made. Q But you have also said from this podium time and time again -- Q Wait a minute. Whoa, Nelly. Whoa. Q that that was not under consideration. Q Yes. Clinton says, "It is not something that is now under consideration." Is that no longer true? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I believe the working group, as Ms. Shalala says, has looked at this prospect, but no decisions have been made of any kind. Q Well, I know. But he said he'd tell us about it if it was ever under consideration. I take it that now he is and he didn't tell us about it or -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Did he say if it was under consideration or if it was something to be proposed? Q "If we start considering I'll tell you." MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: If it's something to be proposed? Q "If we start considering it, I'll tell you." That's a direct quote. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The task force has looked at a number of different options. They have not made any decisions yet. The President has not made any decisions yet. This is -- one of the proposals under consideration by the task force was to go out and cast as wide a net as possible for different ideas on how to reform the health care system. They have cast a very wide net. They have looked at hundreds of different proposals -- probably thousands of different proposals. But the President has not made any decisions. Q Well, is the President aware of their consideration of this option? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know if he's been briefed on any preliminary conclusions or anything like that from the task force on this specific proposal of any kind. I don't know that that's gotten to his level. He started yesterday to go through with the task force a very wide range of decisions and I don't believe that that's been presented to him, no. Q Well, he's not relying on the USA Today to tell him what his task force is considering in the way of taxes. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: No, he's going through it in a very deliberate fashion. There are a number of decisions that have to be made. I don't know that this proposal has reached that decision- making point. Q If this is still under consideration, that's a change, at least from what we've been told by Dee Dee, I think about three weeks ago or so. She said, that is not an option, talking about the -- had a big argument with somebody over this, so I remember it specifically -- and said it not once, but twice. Is that not the case? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Again, I don't know if this has been presented to the President as something that is being looked at at some level in the task force. Q It was ruled it out, though. I mean, unlike other options that you've kept in the mix, this one specifically was ruled out. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Again, this is something that is being looked at, but no decision has been made of any kind. I mean, it doesn't -- it's not necessarily material until you get to the decision-making phase. The working groups are looking at hundreds of different options. Q If it was ruled out before and it's not ruled out now, then something has changed, George. Yes, no? Q When a guy says in February -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, the working groups are looking at the widest possible range of options. Q So something's changed. They weren't looking at it before; they're looking at it now. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, I don't know if the working groups have gotten to that point yet. They are casting a very wide net. Q How was it possible that you and Dee Dee were able to sell -- definitively rule it out as an option previously and now are saying that, in fact, it is being considered? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Again, the working groups are looking at a wide range of options. They have not -- Q Do you deny that you and Dee Dee ruled it -- flatly ruled it out on several occasions in the past month? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't deny that -- I mean, those are the President's words. Those are very clear. Q Subsequent to the President's words, do you deny that within the last month you and Dee Dee have both publicly ruled it out? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know about the timing. I think what we did was refer back to the President's words and say they stand. Q So don't they stand any longer? Q March 25th, Clinton said for the next four to five years it was ruled out. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, those words -- the President did say that in February. The working groups are on a separate track, and as I said, I don't believe -- Q Separate from the President? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't believe this has been presented to the President. Q Are they considering something that the President -- Q Has ruled out? Q has ruled out? I mean, will the President consider a VAT tax? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Again, the working groups have not presented this to the President. They have looked at a wide range of options. I suppose that if an argument is made, he will clearly listen to it. That does not mean he has decided to do it. Q Can we put this another way? In his answer in Ohio, he looked at the VAT in terms of restructuring the whole tax system. Under those -- that was the circumstance that he said it might be considered at some future point. Is that no longer the case, or is that the only way that he can see a VAT emerging? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I guess I'm not sure exactly what you're asking. Q He talked about the VAT in the context of a restructured tax system, not as a specific way to finance health care, for example. Q Or anything else. Q Or anything else. Q It was always in the context of substituting for other taxes at a time of a dramatic overhaul of the whole tax system. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Right. Q Has that change, too? Q Is that still his view? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I haven't spoken about those specific comments. I think -- I can just go back to it -- are the working groups -- have they examined the possibility of a VAT? Yes, they have. Q Certainly we're looking at a VAT, she said. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: They have examined the possibility of a VAT. Has it been presented to the President? Has he made a decision? No, he has not. Q What kind of a deal do you have when you've got the President's appointed task force, obviously not oblivious to his ruling something out except in the context of some huge down the line reform, goes ahead on its own and considers a tax which he has specifically ruled out in any context other than much later, and then goes ahead and announces that that's what they're looking at? Is the President concerned about that sort of thing? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think that the President's concern is to make sure he gets the best health care proposal possible. He's concerned with making sure that they have the most thorough process for examining all the possible alternatives, all the different alternatives. If a decision is made to go forward with something like that it's certainly something the President will explain and justify. But no decision has been made along those lines. Q What does it mean exactly, though, when the President rules something out? Does it mean it can get back on the table later if a more persuasive argument is made? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: That's just -- that's indisputably true. If you -- but, at the same time, he has not ruled it in. He has not made a proposal. Q What makes him open to it now when he wasn't open to it before? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: He's certainly willing to listen to the argument. Q Was he willing to listen to the argument for a short-term tax this year, and he wasn't willing to listen to it in Chilicothe? He's now open to it -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The context of his comments was that it was not something -- he wanted to be clear that this is not something he was proposing, not something he was floating. Q Not something he was considering. Those are his words -- "It's not something that's now under consideration. If we start considering it, I'll tell you." You're now acknowledging, are you not, that it is under consideration and -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm acknowledging that the task force has studied this proposal. I am also stating that the President has not made a decision on it. Q But the door is open for the President to reconsider including this as part of -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Obviously, the working groups are looking at it. Again, but the President has not made a decision. Q Do you know if they will make a presentation on behalf of the VAT to him? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know that. I assume that if -- I don't know what stage they are it in proposing. I don't know that they're going to make the conclusion that this is something they should present to him. I know this is something the working groups are looking at. Q Do you understand, George, that none of us are asking these questions in context of a decision that the President has made, only about what the President is considering? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I understand that, and I am acknowledging that the working groups have examined the issue of a VAT. Q And the President will consider it? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I assume that he will consider the argument if it is presented to him. Q Does that mean the President -- that working groups think that when the President says no, he means maybe? (Laughter.) MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think that means that the working groups are trying to do the most thorough job possible. Q George, can I ask you another question about Bosnia? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Sure. (Laughter.) Q No, he wants us to stay on this. Q Let's do gays in the military. (Laughter.) Q No, he got out of that swamp. Q I think we've gotten the bottom line on that VAT. Reggie Bartholomew, your Special Ambassador in Belgrade, today said that if the Serbs do not accept the agreement that has been worked out -- quote -- "We will do our part to pursue the lifting of the arms embargo together with our allies." That seems to go a bit further than what you've just said -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Sounds almost exactly what I just said. Q Well, do you accept -- in other words, you accept what Reggie -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, the President has said that this is something that's under consideration. It is something he will consider if the current actions don't bring the Serbs to the table. Q Isn't there some kind of timetable here? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Yes, there is a timetable. There's going to be a vote on the U.N. resolution in about 10 days. Q That's on sanctions, that's on tightening the sanctions. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: That's right, that's sanctions. And we believe that that will ratchet up the pressure, and we hope that that will bring the Serbs to the table. As you know, Mr. Bartholomew also met with Mr. Churkin of Russia, and they are also working on ways to bring the Serbs to the table. We will continue to pressure them in many different ways and this is one possible option as well. Q The question is whether there's a timetable for consideration or a vote on a decision on lifting the arms embargo, not the sanctions. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The next vote in the U.N. is on sanctions. As far as I know, there are no votes scheduled on lifting the arms embargo. But it is something that we have discussed both internally and with our allies. Q Why did Reggie Bartholomew tell the Serbs that the U.S. would do that? What was the point of his telling them that? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, clearly, I mean, this is something that's under consideration, and this is something that we take quite seriously if they do not come to the table. They should know the consequences of failing to come to the table. Q Have they been given a deadline? Q Warren Christopher has been saying the same thing and it hasn't seemed to change the Serbs' behavior in the least. Why should the Serbs take any heed of a threat to lift the arms embargo when so far everything that's been done has had no effect on the fighting in Bosnia? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I just don't accept the premise of your question. It has had an effect; the embargo is having an effect. Q What effect? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: If the Serbians choose not to heed our warnings, then they will face the consequences. Q What effect has it had in Bosnia? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, the effect that it has had on the Serbians, it has tightened up -- they are not getting their shipments through. We can brief more fully -- Q In Bosnia, George. In Bosnia what effect has it had? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, it's hard to say if it's stopped the aggression to date. That is why we're continuing to press for the Serbians to stop. But we believe that over time we will continue to weaken the Serbs and that will have an effect. I'm not saying it's going to happen overnight; it clearly hasn't happened overnight. But we believe that over time the sanctions can weaken the Serbs. If it fails to work and if the Serbs fail to come to the negotiating table, we'll move forward with the embargo. Q Isn't there a working deadline, George, of the 24th -- the same date as the U.N. -- the scheduled U.N. vote? Hasn't the United States said, along with many of the other NATO allies, that if the Serbs aren't willing to sign on to the peace accord by then, that we'll seek -- haven't we said that we will seek -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We've said continually we're going to -- Q But on that deadline? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't have a specific date, but we're going to move forward with the resolution, the U.N. resolution, by around that time. And if that fails to take effect, if that fails to bring the Serbs to the table, we will clearly consider other actions. Q Isn't this awfully incremental? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We're taking a step-by-step approach. We're ratcheting up the pressure and we're going to continue to do that. Q Is there a possibility, George, that by the time all these incremental steps are taken the Serbs will have achieved their goals and then what's the purpose? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think the purpose is to get the Serbs to stop the aggression. We are pursuing that goal on many different fronts. We are pursuing it through the U.N.; we're pursuing it through direct talks; we are pursuing it through tightening the sanctions. And we will consider lifting the arms embargo. We are turning the screws up on the Serbs and we will continue to do that. Q But if the efforts have been unsuccessful in getting the Serbs to stop the aggression how effective will any campaign be to have the Serbs give back what they've gained? I mean, once they're entrenched -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I can't speculate on that. We're going to continue to press for them to come to the table now. We're going to continue to find ways to stop the aggression. But I can't see into the future. Q George, on the stimulus package, House Republicans say they're going to hold a series of town meetings on Saturday to try and explain the details of your package. They cite polls which show that the more people learn about it, the less they like it. What's your strategy to counter that? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The strategy we have is the one we're going to continue. As you saw, the President today pointed up the very real benefits of the summer jobs program that this package will provide: 700,000 new summer jobs this summer for kids in inner cities and suburbs to do productive work. We are also going to point out the benefits of the highway money, the investments in highways. We're going to point up the benefits of immunization. We're going to point up the benefits of Head Start. We are going to say that the Republicans have a choice: they can take action to create jobs or they can perpetuate the gridlock of the last four years. Q Does it concern you, though, that the House now, the House Republicans are after you as well as the Senate? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The House Republicans voted against it before. They made a mistake then; they're making a mistake now. Q George, does it strike anybody in the administration that it's a bit strong to describe, as the President did this morning, the summer jobs program as -- quote -- "a reaffirmation of a promise of America"? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Not at all. I think it's the promise of America to give kids a chance to reach their full potential. Q Government-funded jobs? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: To give people a chance to work? Absolutely. That is the promise of America. Q I want to follow up on something I asked yesterday -- where does 700,000 summer jobs, where does that figure come from? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: That is on top of. I did look at it. There are currently 600,000 summer jobs in the pipeline. This will be on top of the 600,000, so it will be a total of 1.3 million. Q The 700,000 would be created by the stimulus package? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Yes. Q Where does that number come from? Because we've been told all along that the stimulus package would create 500,000 new jobs. And according to Panetta, that breaks down to something like 200,000 full-time jobs and 150,000 summer jobs. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Yes, but the summer -- that's when you do their full-time equivalence. I mean, 700,000 individuals will receive jobs this summer. When you calculate it for the full-time job effect, you have to do -- I don't know what the exact formula is. Q Seven hundred thousand part-time jobs -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: -- 150,000 or -- Q One to four because it's three months. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Thank you. Q Can I follow up on that? Did the President misspeak this morning when he said that some of the government money for these summer jobs will pay for private -- for kids to work in the private sector? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Not necessarily. I mean, I think that there will be grants available. That's one of the ways that you pay for the jobs. At the same time, he's also issued a challenge to the private sector to hire kids on their own as well. Q Tax dollars, for instance, would pay for kids to work at Time-Warner? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think the Time-Warner is actually somebody coming forward and actually doing a grant. That's going to be the bulk of it. There could be isolated instances, though, where there would be grants to businesses. Q Has the President spoken with any Senate Republicans this week? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: No, but there's been a lot of contact with Senate Republicans in the White House. Q At a lower level. But the President hasn't? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The President has not, no. Q Getting any closer to get the votes? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We're continuing to work on it. Q Anybody leaning your way? Q On Haiti, The New York Times seems to be reporting something of a breakthrough in Aristide's attitude towards the coup leaders. Can you confirm that there has been this change, and what impact will it have on the process? And what did Pezzullo have to say yesterday in his report? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Pezzullo did brief the principals. I can't confirm what's actually happening in the talks. I would leave that to the negotiators themselves. But Mr. Caputo has returned to Haiti. We have received a briefing here at the White House from Ambassador Pezzullo. And as we have said time and time again, we believe that assurances of security are important to a final resolution to a broader political settlement. Q George, yesterday you offered some selective breakdowns of how the stimulus would impact some states and cities. Can we get a complete breakdown by state of how these jobs would be impacted? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think we have it for most states, yes. And I think we can get it out. Q Could you make that generally available? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I believe we can. Q And could you do it by the component of the stimulus? In other words -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know if we can do -- I know that we can do it by summer jobs and other jobs. I don't know how deeply it can be broken down. But clearly, we can break it down into summer jobs and other jobs. Q And can I follow up? Is this the information that Jeff Eller and the rest of the White House is using in the ads in the states? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know if they're ads, but they're press releases. Q Can you describe what those press releases contain? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: All we're doing is pointing out the benefits of this package to various states. For instance, I know that today Senator Dole is heading up to Vermont and New Hampshire. And I would point out that the stimulus package, the jobs package creates 1,000 jobs in Vermont. It creates 2,000 jobs in New Hampshire. And the people of those states should remind him that this is important. Q Where are the releases going? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: They go to the states. Q To whom? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We can get them. It's no problem. Q Can we get it? Q Why don't you put them out here as well? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think we can. Q This afternoon? Would that be possible? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'll have to check. I don't know. But as soon as we can. Q Are you focusing these press releases on states where there are moderate or pragmatic Republican senators? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think we're trying to get as many as we can. It's actually quite difficult to pull this together and we're doing our best. We're putting them out as we get them. Q Why are you so closely tracking Senator Dole's schedule? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I was just following it. Q Are press releases going along to states where he's visiting? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm not sure. I think that probably there are press releases going to Vermont. (Laughter.) Q Will there be a man in a chicken suit waiting? (Laughter.) Q George, as the President goes about the business of defending what's in his stimulus package, he doesn't address what seems to be the Republicans' main point, that you're funding it with deficit spending rather than "if it's so important, why not come up with the funding for it" seems to be the Republican argument. And how do you answer that? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: What was answer is, we are paying for it over time. And if you look at our budget, we pay for this package over time. We believe right now the economy needs a jump- start for jobs. Q You're not claiming, are you, that that doesn't add to the deficit this year? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm saying we're paying for it over time. I didn't say that. Q I know that, George. But I mean, from the beginning, the question -- we do have annual budgets and things -- deficit spending will pay for that this year, will it not? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: This year they clearly will. But over time our budget fully pays for this program. Q What you're saying is that there are savings that would cover this if it were this year in future years? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Absolutely. That's exactly what I said. Q I know that, but there is going to be outstanding debt, it will add to the national debt from this year -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: No, we're reducing the deficit by $500 billion -- $514 billion over the next four years. Q You mean you're reducing it below what it would have been? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Exactly. Q In fact, you're adding a very large amount to the national debt over the period of -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: But we're reducing it far more from what it would have been. That's true. Q Washington-type reduction. (Laughter.) Q You're getting to be a grumpy old man. Q George, has any decision been made about the White House or the President's participation in the gay rights march coming up in a week and a half? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We're working on the President's schedule now. I believe he's going to be at the Senate Democratic retreat in Jamestown that weekend. Q Will he address it by phone? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know about that. It's a little far out, but I believe he's going to be in the Senate retreat. Q So will he have the leaders in a day or two before the speech? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know. I would expect that at some point he would meet with the leaders of some of these groups. I don't know the schedule on it, though. Q Will there be an AIDS czar appointed prior to or in conjunction with the event? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm just not sure. Q April 22nd is Earth Day. What is the President going to do to mark that, and is it the case that he is going to sign the biodiversity treaty that day? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I know there's been some work on the biodiversity treaty. I don't know about signing it that day, but I would expect he'll have a statement on Earth Day or right around then. Q Where is the work on the biodiversity treaty? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'd have to check with Katie McGinty. I just know that there's been some work done, but I don't know exactly what. Q When is Earth Day? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The 22nd, I think. Q Why is it you know that he is going to have a statement on Earth Day but you don't know if he's going to have a statement on the gay rights march? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I said I don't know if he's going to meet or when he's going to meet. Q Do you have a statement on the gay rights march? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't, actually, no. I wouldn't be surprised if he did, though. Q Do you have some details on the Miyazawa visit? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: It's a working visit on Friday and the President is looking forward to that in discussing a number of issues including Russian aid and the Japanese stimulus package and the trade issues between the two countries. Q There was some expectations that a second aid package to Russia was going to be unveiled at the G-7 meeting and, if I understand, it hasn't happened. Why is that or what's the status on that? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The G-7 meeting is still going on and, as you know, Secretaries Bentsen and Christopher have talked about the outlines of a possible package. But we're going to continue to consult with Congress and our G-7 allies on that. Q? We will not then make any kind of announcement during the two-day meeting? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The meeting's not over yet. Q Is that when you're going to make one? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm not ruling out the possibility. Q the President's going to announce it tomorrow. Q Bentsen said that. Q Yes, Bentsen said it would be tomorrow. Q So did Christopher. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'd have to look at that, but I believe it is more likely that the announcement will come out of Tokyo. Q George, has there been further consideration here about going to -- sending the President out to Los Angeles? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know that there's -- it's not something we've ruled out. We don't have a date set for it. Q George, you all have a position or do you support Immigration's plan to settle 4,000 Iraqi prisoners in the United States? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: It's the first I've heard of it. Q George, there was a report today about the -- Q Fortunately. (Laughter.) Q about the pace of appointments and says that President Clinton is behind President Bush in the number of positions that people have been nominated for. Are you going to speed up the pace of nominations or where do you stand with it? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We filled 814 of the President's appointments. And it's broken down -- we have 384 Schedule C; 147 noncareer SES; 213 PAS full-time. I'm not sure what that means -- (laughter) -- 70 PA full-time. And this is about the same -- it's about the same pace of President Bush. Obviously, as you move along farther, once you -- each level of appointment actually has a multiplier effect and frees up far more appointments. So we expect the process to speed up. But we're at the pace of Bush. Obviously we'd like to get these done as quickly as possible. I would point out that the FBI background checks and the background check is far more comprehensive and it takes more time than our predecessors, and that is part of the holdup. But we're working on it. Q Is that because of Nannygate? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think that's an awful big part of it, yes. Q In the story this morning, you were at approximately the same pace as Bush in making appointments, but way behind in winning confirmations. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: That's where the background checks comes into play. That's the problem. Q That's the background checks problem? Because I mean, you have a Democratic Senate -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: No, that's not the -- you make the appointments, and then it takes quite a bit of time to fill out all the forms and have the background checks done. That's exactly where the problem is. Q What's the President doing this afternoon, and what's on the plan for tomorrow? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: He's got some meetings -- just office meetings this afternoon for the most part, on a variety of issues that -- probably a half-dozen different issues. And then he'll be -- tomorrow we'll have an event, probably again focused on the stimulus and jobs package out of here at the White House. And Friday is the Miyazawa meeting. Q Will you be releasing his tax return tomorrow, George? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Either tomorrow or Friday. Q Is there going to be a pre-briefing regarding the Japanese Prime Minister's visit tomorrow? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know about tomorrow, but we'll probably get something done, as we usually do, for these visits. Q Was Reverend Jackson here this morning and do you know what that was about? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: He was here. He met with a group of us here at the White House, including Mack McLarty. Q Who? Q Reverend Jackson. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Reverend Jackson. Mack McLarty, me, Gene Sperling, Bruce Reed, Jeff Watson, Mark Gearan. Q Talking about Haiti? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: We talked about general urban policy. He is about to go to Los Angeles. He was just back from Mississippi, where we had a good victory last night; and he's going on to Los Angeles. Q Did he request the meeting? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Actually, no. He's in continual contact with the President. He had written a letter on a variety of issues, and so we asked him to come in and talk about it. Q George, Dole is having a fundraiser for Jeffords tonight in Vermont. Have you guys been in contact with Jeffords at all on this? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I think there's been some contact, sure. Q Can you tell us about the contacts? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I'm not sure -- Q Do you know who contacted him or what was said? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I know that Howard Paster talked to him and they just has a general talk about the package. Q And did he express his support for it now, or is he -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I can't divulge the details of the conversation, but there have been conversations. Q The L.A. Times is reporting that abortion -- elective abortions is likely to be included in the basic health care package. Is this something the President is considering? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Again -- Q Along with the VAT? (Laughter.) MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: It's certainly something that's been looked at, but no decisions have been made. Q What was the question? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: The L.A. Times story on whether abortions will be covered by the President's health plan. Q Did the President in his meeting -- did you in your meeting with Reverend Jackson ask his advice, solicit his advice about what kind of stance the White House should take in the wake of the verdict in L.A.? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, we certainly talked about the situation in Los Angeles and the long-term prospects for economic development and other issues. Q For instance, did you discuss whether it would be helpful for the President to go there or not? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, we discussed a wide range of issues related to Los Angeles. That was certainly one of them. Q Letting you perhaps go out on the way you came in, I need to go back to Bosnia just for a second and ask -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Oh, good. Q your reaction to Margaret Thatcher's comments that you're just sitting by and watching a massacre. MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, we've been pushing very hard on a number of fronts for more aggressive action. We will continue to do that. Q Can you tell us if you've made any progress in your talks on the stimulus package getting a compromise? I mean, we don't have any feel except talks are ongoing. Have you talked to like 20 people or -- MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I don't know the numbers. We've talked to several people and we've had wide-ranging sessions. Q Anyone leaning your way? MR. STEPHANOPOULOS: I can't get into that. We're just going to keep working through Tuesday. THE PRESS: Thank you. END 1:10 P.M. EDT
Can you aswer me one question? How did you get to be so retarded?
Is anyone reading this message involved with the new BMW plant? (does BMW corporate even have a net-connection?)
On second thought, maybe he didn't invent wreck.moto - he's trying a round about way to figure out the DoD theme song. One FAQ, coming right up! Charlie Smith, DoD #0709, doh #0000000004, 1KSPT=22.85
Are we talking about me, or the majority of the people that support it? Anyway, I think that "revenge" or "fairness" is why most people are in favor of the punishment. If a murderer is going to be punished, people that think that he should "get what he deserves." Most people wouldn't think it would be fair for the murderer to live, while his victim died. Perhaps you think that it is petty and pathetic, but your views are in the minority. Where are we required to have compassion, forgiveness, and sympathy? If someone wrongs me, I will take great lengths to make sure that his advantage is removed, or a similar situation is forced upon him. If someone kills another, then we can apply the golden rule and kill this person in turn. Is not our entire moral system based on such a concept? Or, are you stating that human life is sacred, somehow, and that it should never be violated? This would sound like some sort of religious view. Once a criminal has committed a murder, his desires are irrelevant. And, you still have not answered my question. If you are concerned about the death penalty due to the possibility of the execution of an innocent, then why isn't this same concern shared with imprisonment. Shouldn't we, by your logic, administer as minimum as punishment as possible, to avoid violating the liberty or happiness of an innocent person?
Well Sherri, I'd agree with you except that most 'kiddies' have more sense than to spew their obscenities in front of a group of adults.. I try to edit this newsgroup and feed it to one of the local elementary schools, they have a group of students that just love baseball and are learning to use computers, but I'm telling you, it's gotten to the point that I don't even edit the files anymore, just read them and throw out the trash... And thanks to all you people that think it's wonderful to include a swear word or two in your signature files, that's really nice... I have to read the whole article and then toss it out because of the .sig. Don't get me wrong, I know all the words you do, (and I've even made up some of my own!) or I wouldn't be able to edit them out ;^) but this just doesn't seem to be the place, a public forum, to spew foul language, sorry.. Thanks to all you people that keep in mind, there might be some decent, young people, interested in baseball and computers reading this newsgroup.. They enjoy your articles.
Dr. cheghadr bA namakand! They just wait until they are teenagers to kill them! huh? Yup. IRI also granted a great deal of reconstruction of houses and buildings in war torn areas to Malaysia. Khak too sareshoon, one of the only industries we really have is construction, and there are all these unemployed youth, and they give money to Malaysia to do what Iranians can and should be doing.
Thanks for docs info. It turns out that if I leave out colormap updates between frames and use tvtwm, my tests with 100 400x400x8 frames on an IPX using the server-resident pixmap method give an astonishing *50* frames per second! And VERY smooth. I think I've found the best solution (thanks to the generous help on this group!) However, I may have colormap questions later..... Derek -----------------------------------------------------------
#>In article <1993Apr15.222600.11690@research.nj.nec.com> #>> ... #>> Several chemists already have come up with several substitutes for #>> R12. You don't hear about them because the Mobile Air Conditioning #>Society #>> (MACS), that is, the people who stand to rake in that $300 to $1000 per #>> retrofit per automobile, have mounted an organized campaign to squash #>those #>> R12 substitutes out of existence if not ban them altogether (on very #>shaky #>> technical grounds, at best, on outright lies at worst). #>> ... #> #>Now, I'm not saying you're wrong because I know that the R-12 substitutes #>exist, but this sounds a lot like the 200mpg carbs that the oil companies #>keep us all from getting. # # It sounds crazy, but it's true. One of the best R-12 subsitutes, #GHG-12, is currently a commercial product. Unfortunately, the SAE committee #on mobile air conditioning is comprised almost exclusively of MACS members. #Such being the case, no papers about any alternative refrigerant other than #R-134a have been accepted for review/publication. # # Yo, John? You want to provide some more details? Or should I just #repost your voluminous repost? # #Later, #-- #Chris BeHanna DoD# 114 1983 H-D FXWG Wide Glide - Jubilee's Red Lady #behanna@syl.nj.nec.com 1975 CB360T - Baby Bike #Disclaimer: Now why would NEC 1991 ZX-11 - needs a name #agree with any of this anyway? I was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs. We here are *VERY* interested in info on R12 substitutes (in fact I think we really need all the info on this we can get). I would really appreciate technical, supply, and hardware-upgrade details. Also, R12 is a useful solvent/reagent in the extraction/production of certain pharmaceuticals. Any info on the substitutes' corresponding usefullness? I am currently working with the local engineers who are making sure we are compliant with the regulations. The trouble with regulations is that they only tell you what you are no longer permitted to do, not what you should do instead. I think the cause of the new regulations is the Montreal Protocol which has a definite CFC-phase-out schedule. (Of course the cause of the Montreal Protocol was all the research done on the causes of the Ozone Depletion Problem.) Someone asked earlier about why the governments were working so fast to ban the ozone-depleting (CFC) chemicals and not gasolines and other greenhouse-gas-producing compounds. The greenhouse effect (produced by infrared-trapping gasses like CO2 and methane) and the ozone-hole problem (produced by long-lived, chlorine-containing molecules) are not the same thing. It is a lot easier to do something about not using the CFC's (chloro-fluorocarbons) than it is to stop producing CO2 and methane which are natural byproducts of combustion and of living (animal) organisms. Planting more trees and not destroying so many existing trees would help the greenhouse-gas problem, but would do nothing for the ozone problem. Fred W. Bach , Operations Group | Internet: music@erich.triumf.ca TRIUMF (TRI-University Meson Facility) | Voice: 604-222-1047 loc 327/278 4004 WESBROOK MALL, UBC CAMPUS | FAX: 604-222-1074 University of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C., CANADA V6T 2A3
I have the following item for sale: Electronic Typewriter: Panasonic KT-32, with 22K memory, small LCD display. I'm selling it bundled with a Panasonic computer interface (RPK105) for this typewriter. You can connect it to any PC parallel port (sorry, no cable). It works perfect, even in Windows (TTY printer). It's great if you need to send letter with "typewriter look". In stand-alone mode it has 3 pitches, and several "effects" like underline, bold, overstrike. Built-in dictionary and character/word/ line correction. Asking $150 for both the typewriter and the interface ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Jorge Lach Sun Microsystems Computer Corporation Jorge.Lach@East.Sun.Com East Coast Division, Chelmsford, MA
Selling - Arnet Multiport card. Four serial ports on one card (16450s) with docs and drivers for OS/2 and DOS (works great with Unix flavors too). Aggregate is probably around 64Kb. Offers? Also willing to swap for monitor.
I'm wondering if it's possible to use radio waves to measure the distance between a transmitter(s) and receiver? Seems to me that you should be able to measure the signal strength and determine distance. This would be for short distances (2000 ft), and I would need to have accuracy of 6 inches, or so. How about measuring vertical distance as well, any chance - or am I getting ridiculous? What frequencies would be best for this? Or does matter? Sorry if I'm "mucking up" the network with one of those questions best answered by Bill Willis via US Mail... and I apologize for not being "tuned-in" to electronics. :-)
Maybe I'm just a child of the 80's, but I really liked the Marlins' uniforms. The helmets shine nicely in the sun. It's enough to make me a fan.
I thought that was Sandy Koufax.
Hey, it might to interesting to read some of these posts... Especially from ones who still regularly posts on alt.atheism! Hee hee hee. *I* ain't going to say.... --- " Whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. "
Hi, I am trying to write an X-windows based interface that runs on top of GDB. Could anyone help me in understanding the way we are supposed to "fork" GDB off as a subprocess ?? I currently use pipes but when I try and debug this program, the following happens : PROGRAM : main() { int x; printf("enter x : "); scanf("%d", &x); printf("x = .%d.\n", x ); } OUTPUT : The program hangs without returning the output of the printf statement. When I type in a value (like 5), then all the printf's output comes out at one time. Is there any other way, besides using PIPES to do this i.e., like ioctl or something else ?? Thanks, Deepak
# 74S Later modification of 74 for even higher speed, at some cost in # power consumption. Effectively obsolete; use 74F. # # 74LS Combination of 74L and 74S, for speed comparable to 74 with lower # power consumption. Best all-round TTL now, widest variety of # devices. # # 74F Fast as blazes, power not too bad. The clear choice for high # speed in TTL. Availability and prices generally good. I hate to disagree w/ a fellow as smart as Henry, but... A few years back, I worked on a project using lots of high-speed stuff. (My part was slow & parallel, whew.) The mild-mannered designer working on the fast (serial) stuff cussed & swore at 74F all the time. It was the Harry Reams of TTL. One ultra-tiny power line glitch, one hickup, one eyeblink across the board, and bang - the F had toggled/counted/whatevered. At times he swore it would count even without any 5 volt supply ;-} You can guess what the "F" stood for.... They would do anything to push S or work around it to avoid using F. I don't think I'd consider using F to replace S unless the consequences were *fully* understood.......
The sightings were apparently spurious. There is no planet inside of the orbit of Mercury. The idea of Vulcan came from the differences between Mercury's observed perihelion precession and the value it should have had according to Newtonian physics. Leverrier made an extensive set of observations and calculations during the mid 19th century, and Simon Newcombe later improved on the observations and re-calculated using Leverrier's system of equations. Now Leverrier was one of the co-discoverers of Neptune and since he had predicted its existence based on anomalies in the orbit of Uranus his inclination was to believe the same sort of thing was afoot with Mercury. But alas, 'twere not so. Mercury's perihelion precesses at the rate it does because the space where it resides near the sun is significantly curved due to the sun's mass. This explanation had to wait until 1915 and Albert Einstein's synthesis of his earlier theory of the electrodynamics of moving bodies (commonly called Special Relativity) with Reimanian geometry. The result was the General Theory of Relativity, and one of it's most noteworthy strengths is that it accounts for the precession of Mercury's perihelion almost exactly. (Exactly if you use Newcomb's numbers rather than Leverrier's.) Of course not everybody believes Einstein, and that's fine. But subsequent efforts to find any planets closer to the sun than Mercury using radar have been fruitless. -Bill Gawne "Forgive him, he is a barbarian, who thinks the customs of his tribe are the laws of the universe." - G. J. Caesar
I wonder how many atheists out there care to speculate on the face of the world if atheists were the majority rather than the minority group of the population. It is rather a ridiculous question in some ways, I know, but my newsreader is down so I am not getting any new postings for a bit, so I figure I might as well post something new myself. Also, how many atheists out there would actually take the stance and accor a higher value to their way of thinking over the theistic way of thinking. The typical selfish argument would be that both lines of thinking evolved from the same inherent motivation, so one is not, intrinsically, different from the other, qualitatively. But then again a measuring stick must be drawn somewhere, and if we cannot assign value to a system of beliefs at its core, than the only other alternative is to apply it to its periphery; ie, how it expresses its own selfishness. Idle thoughts... Adam
% % Request for opinions: % % Which is better - a one-piece Aerostitch or a two-piece Aerostitch? % Like most everyone else, I ended up getting two different sizes for the top and bottom. My top is a 46L and the bottom is a 48L. For the bottom, the waist is far too large, but the thighs fit just right (the 46 had a better waist, but cut off the circulation in my legs, I have large, muscular thighs, and no, I didn't use the thighmaster to get them :-). The jacket fits me ok in the chest, slightly snug at the waist, and too small in the arms. I can't imagine finding a one-piece size that would have fit correctly, as even the 2 piece has it's problems (strange, since my V-Pilot jacket fits great all over, and when I tried the matching pants, they fit like a glove as well). I can only assume the models Aero Design uses to design its suits are in some way different from us real folks. Also, even though it's related to convienience, you look pretty damn wierd walking around with the tops and bottoms while running errands. I've gotten some really suspicious looks, and sweated a lot while in a store wearing the whole suit, since you can't fit the top and bottom in any motorcycle storage device yet devised (except the trunk in my sidecar rig :-). With the two piece, I unzip the pants (I generally leave the two pieces zipped together, primarily because the pants fall down unless I pull the cheesy elastic belt-type band real tight), stuff them in one of my spacious BMW saddlebags (the pants just fit), and run errands just wearing the jacket. Actually, if I know I'll be running errands, I just wear my V-Pilot jacket, but that's just me... As far as crash protection, I'd say that both suits are probably equal. It seems that for weather protection, if anything the 2 piece provides a little more because of the jacket overlapping the pants by 3 inches. The 2 piece is probably a little less comfortable around the waist, just because of the extra layer of stuff, but maybe not. So I'd have to vote for the two piece. Despite the slightly odd fit, I still find the suit the most versatile piece of riding clothing I own. Wouldn't go long distance without it. Ken Wallich <wallich@ncd.com> ken@wallich.com ~ kmw@al.org ~ [...]decwrl!vixie!amber!ken
Source: "Men Are Like That" by Leonard Ramsden Hartill. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis (1926). (305 pages). (Memoirs of an Armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 19 (first paragraph) "The Tartar section of the town no longer existed, except as a pile of ruins. It had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered. The same fate befell the Tartar section of Khankandi." p. 130 (third paragraph) "The city was a scene of confusion and terror. During the early days of the war, when the Russian troops invaded Turkey, large numbers of the Turkish population abandoned their homes and fled before the Russian advance." p. 181 (first paragraph) "The Tartar villages were in ruins." Serdar Argic
The Apollo fire was harsh, A Saturn V explosion would have been hurtful but The Soviets winning would have been crushing. That could have been *the* technological turning point for the US turning us from Today's "We can do anything, we're *the* Super Power" to a much more reserved attitude like the Soviet Program today. Kennedy was gone by 68\69, the war was still on is the east, I think the program would have stalled badly and the goal of the moon by 70 would have been dead with Nasa trying to figure were they went wrong. I speulate that: +The Saturn program would have been pushed into the 70s with cost over runs that would just be too evil. Nixon still wins. +The Shuttle was never proposed and Skylab never built. +By 73 the program stalled yet again under the fuel crisis. +A string of small launches mark the mid seventies. +By 76 the goal of a US man on the moon is dead and the US space program drifts till the present day.
I made a mistake on the posted article [been fighting food poisoning for last 24 hours...] The second paragraph should state the following... "Doctors cleared Sandberg to swing a padded bat at a ball on a tee and to catch a ball in his gloved hand." Sorry for the error, didn't know it until after posting.
1. IBM PS/2 286; 30 meg hd; 1.44 disk drive 3.5"; extended keyboard; mouse, mouse-pad; DOS, DOSSHELL, EXCEL, WINDO S, WORD, AMIPRO, GRE StudyWare. $500 / b.o. 2. Zenith Date Systems supersport laptop computer w/ 120V AC recharger; model 150-308 60 hz. DOS 4.0 2 disc drives for 3.5" floppy carrying case, manuals. $350 / b.o. 3. 2 leather desk chairs (1) black $200. (2) brown $150. or both for $300. 4. Olivetti manual typewriter, Tropical model. Incl. characters for typing in Italian language. $100. Please reply via email or call me at my home number: (617) 277-9234. Thanks, Jason
#Compared to the table I have already posted from Masters, Johnson, #and Kolodny showing male homosexual partners, it is apparent that #homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general #male population. Did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing to admit to being a member sexual minority (homosexuality) are more willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority (highly promiscious)? I didn't think that you did.
From: "Phil G. Fraering" <pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu> > Finally: this isn't the Bronze Age, [..] > please try to remember that there are more human activities than > those practiced by the Warrior Caste, the Farming Caste, and the > Priesthood. Right, the Profiting Caste is blessed by God, and may freely blare its presence in the evening twilight .. The Priesthood has never quite forgiven the merchants (aka Profiting Caste [sic]) for their rise to power, has it? ;-)
What's the problem here? Back in 1958 I rode a Puch 175 from Paris to Barcelona and back. That was a two stroke, and back then it was representative of the size of bikes on the road. A 350 was considered a big bike, and the superbikes of the day were 500cc or 600cc. Anything bigger was real rare. Charlie Smith, DoD #0709, doh #0000000004, 1KSPT=22.85
I am looking for a math coprocessor for a 286-16mhz. Should be a 80287-10 or 12. I also have a 80387SX-16 for sale or trade. TNX- Jim * 1st 1.10b #1439 * 1stReader: On the cutting edge of software evolution.
Uh oh. This looks a bit too much like Bobby's "Atheism Is False" stuff. Are we really going to have to go through this again? Maybe the universe is cyclical! :) :(
The complete set of the adventures of Buck Rogers is forsale. Make a REASONABLE offer. Email me back if interested. Thanks.
I can definitily say that you can use an RLL as Master and IDE as slave, as I have just upgraded my machine with a 200Mb IDE ( And custom Controller Mdl CI-1010 Extended IDE Controller ) While maintaining my RLL'd Wren as master Drive. The trick is the controller which supports up to 4 IDE Drives while coexisting with existing Controllers ( MFM,RLL,ESDI,SCSI ). So according to the Documentation it should work with ESDI, and I can assure you it works with RLL.
From article <C4zLJ8.Bun@queernet.org>, by rogerk@queernet.org (Roger B.A. Klorese): #>NAMBLA's presence in the SF Gay Pride Parade says quite a bit. #>It says that either the parade organizers want to show support #>for NAMBLA, or they themselves have a fundamental misunderstanding #>of their rights and responsibilities. I would really, really like #>to believe the latter, but I would need some help to do so. Perhaps, though the exclusion of the Gay Perotistas in the SF Gay Pride Parade would make me think that they had some clue in this regard. Dozens of examples? I don't know...
My monitor display has a bad case of the wigglies. I have a good ground. I live in an old house and I have replaced much of the wiring. I have two EMI filters on the computer, the monitor plugs into the computer. When fluorescent lights are on upstairs, the display jiggles, when motors run in the house, the display jiggles, when incandescent lights are on in the kitchen the display jiggles. I could bring a separate line from the breaker box, and use it only for the computer, would this do it? EMI doesn't only travel the 110 volt line though. Should I shield the back of the monitor? Ground a grid or plate? Your expertise is appreciated. Thanks very much! Ed Byrnes
Science does not progress via experimentation but by philosophising. One aim of experiments is to investigate the validity of the hyptheses resulting from the models produced by this thinking process. Science has one advantage of all other approaches to explaining the world. It is objective. Anything which affects the physical world can be studied. For example, since we are part of the physical world, anything (including spirits) which affects our behaviour can be observed. Science does not make any claims about the existence or non-existence of objects which do not affect the physical world. The purpose of science is to produce a model of the *physical* world. The model must be able to explain all past observations and predict the outcome of future observations. One of the aims of experiments is to carry out well defined observations which are objective. Ideally scientist will except the model which best describes the world, and the model which realises on the minimal number of assumptions. At the moment models which do not rely on the assumption of some *spiritual* world existing are equally powerful to ones which assume the assumption of a *spiritual* world. As the non-spiritual models has fewer assumptions it should be the currently accepted models. The scientific process never assumes that its present models are the correct ones, whereas many religions claim to represent the truth. The arrogance of many theists is that they claim to represent the truth, this cannot be said of scientists.
Since the losers that sold me the hard disk for my computer are so generous, I need the info to set this drive from master to slave. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Please reply via e-mail. Incidentally, avoid purchasing a computer from ACS in Endicott, NY.
Yeah. Sounds typical. Windows makes all sorts of extra demands on hardware, and therefore your machine can't keep up with things. Ever notice how when acessing the floppies in Windows, everything else slows to a crawl? I imagine your backup and evertyhing else that is running fights for CPU time, and sometimes the backup program loses. Be glad. I can't even run in medium speed with CP backup on my machine, supposedly because I have a SCSI machine which places extra demands on the data bus.
`My Western Digital also has three sets of pins on the back. I am using it with `another hard drive as well and the settings for the jumpers were written right `on the circuit board of the WD drive......MA SL ?? Well, I figured out how the jumpers go. Now I have quite a different problem that has me perplexed like you wouldn't know. I have both drives working, the C: system formatted and all of my hardware installed. Only problem is, that during the boot up sequence, the computer does not want to pass up looking for a system on the A: drive. Reinitialization all goes fine and the BIOS seems to be configured to what is necessary. All the drive tests work, but when the thing comes back around to the a: drive and there is no disk present, it just spins. If you insert a disk into drive a with a system however, it works fine and boots up (ie how installed all my software) Any additional help on this will be most welcome.... swood
Bingo. Nothing evil at all. There's no actual harm in what they're doing, only how they represent it. ----------------------------------------------------------------- .sig files are like strings ... every yo-yo's got one.
Peanut butter was definitely my favorite. I don't think I ever took a second bite of the strawberry. I recently joined Nutri-System and their "Chewy Fudge Bar" is very reminicent of the chocolate Space Food. This is the only thing I can find that even comes close the taste. It takes you back... your taste-buds are happy and your intestines are in knots... joy! -- mark ---------------------------- (adam@paix.sw.stratus.com) | My opinions are not those of Stratus. | Hell! I don`t even agree with myself!
The reason they place their outside corner at the location you requested is because that's what the ICCCM says they should do. This code will almost certainly break. Calling XMapWindow and then XFlush does not guarantee that the window is visible and managed by the window manager. Even if this did work, there isn't a reliable way to find out how much decoration the window manager placed around your window, so you don't know how far to move it. And what if the window manager refuses to move your window?
Your suggestion to learn something about "the perversion of Judaism" from someone you claim has experience in Israeli intelligence and the PLO is like a suggestion to learn something about the conspiracy of Sesame Street from someone with experience in fashion design and pizza-making. "Judeo-Nazism"? CPR, you're in a league with Barf Shmidling himself. You can take that as a compliment, if you see it that way.
{Jason Haines} said "what to do with old 256k" to <All> on 04-15-93 04:38 JH> I was wondering if people had any good uses for old JH> 256k SIMMs. I have a bunch of them for the Apple Mac JH> and I know lots of other people do to. I have tried to JH> sell them but have gotten NO interest. How about collecting them all together (IE everyones) and selling them as a lot? The other thing is to give to a recycler. JH> So, if you have an inovative use (or want to buy JH> some SIMMs 8-) ), I would be very interested in hearing JH> about it. If they are free and you can send them real cheap! I would be intrested in them. hehehe Are these 2 chip or 8 chip devices what speed? JH> I have seen RAM disc storage devices but they have been JH> very pricey (plus I am still a little worried about having data JH> stored on RAM). Why? Do you use a RAM disk? :) Stephen Cyberman@Toz.Buffalo.NY.US Mangled on Fri 04-16-1993 at 19:58:29
Is it possible to plug an ordinary ISA card into a VESA localbus slot? I am running out of slots and I have one spare localbus slot.
Bottom line: I did it and it worked. Some 'tips and techniques' are included here: I found that I needed some smaller sockets to undo the shocks. And a can of WD40 helped... The sockets needed were metric (exact fit) but I was able to use some SAE sockets... 13/16 and 15/16 are rather close to 21 and 24mm... It CAN be fun having a Canadian Ford ... Didn't have to undo the end bolts/bushings. Just the 2 U bolts on each side and the shock absorber. Jacking up the frame some more (had to put the spare tire on the garage floor and put a wooden platform on top of that to get the 'floor jack' high enough to raise the frame ... I't one TALLL truck...) lifted the spring free of the axel. Taking out the block gave me enough room to undo the pin holding the spring pack together. The spring pack was held together with a nut on top and a round head on the other end.... No wrench head... Vice Grips worked fine... I soaked the nut with WD40 and it came right off. Flipped the bottom spring and then... I donno ... I'm a little more sore today than after working on a 1911A1 ... A 1.5 foot pipe cheater was a real help. Torque spec for the U bolt nuts is 150 to 200 ft-lbs (!). A 1911-A1 doesn't have that kind of torque spec ... It was a 'challenge' to get the 'pack bolt' back in the spring pack. Squeeze pack with two hands, hold bolt with third, put nut on with fourth while picking up wrench and vice grips with fifth and sixth hands ... I used some string to tie the pack together while holding the pin in for alignment... then I could let go to get the {nut, wrench, Vice Grips...}. Getting the pin back lined up with the lift block was a challenge too... until I discovered that the axel had 1) Tilted and/or 2) rolled forward. One the drivers side, a bottle jack under the front of the differential tilted it back in line enough for the pin head to drop into the right hole. On the passenger side, I had to wrestle the wheel into rolling forward about 1/2 inch to get things to line up. Spent more than an hour working on getting the pin head into the hole in the lift block with levers and ropes and impliments of distruction before I took a break and thought about WHY it wasn't lined up anymore (since it HAD been lined up before, and *I* didn't move it, something ELSE must have ... hmmm, axle no longer constrained not to move ... hmmm, move it back... hmmm...). After that, it was all much easier to 'close up'. BTW, the ride is now softer, but not quite as soft as I was hoping for. At least it now sits level.. -- E. Michael Smith ems@apple.COM 'Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it.' - Goethe
# # I remember seeing something in the X distribution mentioning support # for a Tektronix terminal in an X server. Is this accurate? # Xterm supports 401x emulation. Patrick L. Mahan --- TGV Window Washer ------------------------------- Mahan@TGV.COM ---------
Hey folks, on the course to develope a X window application, we encountered a problem. How could I transform a X window bitmap into a postscript files ? Is there any library routines or source code I can call to do the job ?
The latest news seems to be that Koresh will give himself up once he's finished writing a sequel to the Bible.
Between Adam and Eve and Golgotha the whole process of the fall of man occurred. This involved a gradual dimming of consciousness of the spiritual world. This is discernable in the world outlooks of different peoples through history. The Greek, for example, could say, "better a beggar in the land of the living than a king in the land of the dead." (Iliad, I think). The question of what happens to human beings who died before Christ is an ever present one with Christians. I am not ready to conscign Adam or Abraham, or even Cain to eternal damnation. Yet they all died in their sins, in the Christian sense. The same can be said of the whole of Gentile humanity, and also of the unrepentant malefactor on the cross next to him. I do not limit the power of Christ to save even him, through whom Satan would mock his deed of salvation at the very moment of its fulfillment. It is possible to experience eternity in a passing moment. The relationship of eternity to duration is not simply one of indefinitely extended conditions of Greenwich mean time. It is possible to imagine an eternity of agony or bliss - or even many of them - in the spiritual world during the time between earthly death and a new birth. It was also a standard belief among many peoples that even the righteous were lost. This again is the result of the loss of the paradisal consciousness that fled from us after the fall, with our ever increasing involvement with the sense world. It would be interesting to share in the results of your studies of ancient people's ideas of life after death. Mankind fell into mist and darkness, and at "the turning point of time" a new light entered into the world. The light still grows, and we are developing the eyes with which to see by it. Much new revelation and growth in under- standing lies before us. Our new vision and understanding is still very feeble, but it contains something new that will grow in time to embrace that which is old and much more as well. (At this point I should acknowledge openly my debt to the work of Rudolf Steiner, founder of Anthroposophy, for many insights that have led me to my views on this subject). The way you refer to it as "doctrine" puts a modern intellectual coloring on it. I think it was much less abstract and much more real and spiritually concrete, a teaching that struck much closer to home than our doctrines or teachings today can be received. I am not so ready to attribute widespread notions in antiquity to simple dispersion from an original source. Even if they were passed on, the question is, to what extent did they reflect real perception and experience? The similarity in the midst of great variety of expression of the different people's ideas of the time immediately after death testifies to the presence of an underlying reality. In any case, we study geometry not by reading old manuscripts of Euclid, but by contemplating the principles themselves. On the other hand, there is one notion firmly embedded in Christianity that originated most definitely in a pagan source. The idea that the human being consists essentially of soul only, and that the soul is created at birth, was consciously adopted from Aristotle, whose ideas dominated Christian thought for fifteen hundred years and still does today. He was at once the father of modern thought and at the same time lived during that darkened time when the perception of our eternal spiritual being had grown dim. Indeed. I should also clarify that I do not deny that eternal irrevocable damnation is a real possibility. But the narrow range in which we conceive of the decisive moment, i.e. after the end of a single earthly life, is not in my mind sufficient to embrace the reality, and I think that is why the early creeds were couched in terms that did not try to spell it out.
Checker Motors went out of business in 1982. It's hard to get old Checkers that are worth restoring, since almost every one was a fleet vehicle that was driven into the ground. If you can get a body in decent shape the mechanicals should all be available _somewhere_ - Checker used whatever parts were around. For instance, I had a Chevy straight six and a GMC Truck radiator and a Ford rear in mine. Actually, you want a Checker Special if you can find one.
The New York talk shows are just awful in this regard. People are constantly calling WFAN and WABC with (stuff like) "I was thinking, why don't the Yankees trade Kaminicki and Silvestri to Seattle for Ken Griffey Jr and Randy Johnson, that would really help the team" or "Do you think the Yankees can get Roger Clemens?". The show hosts are pretty good about handling these guys, but it's still annoying. The best one was at the end of one show, a caller started out with "I was thinking, why don't the Yankees trade for..." and then the host hung up on him. I cheered!
Forgive me if this is a FAQ (I have checked the list but I cant find it). I have a problem with the cursor within Xterm on MONO (not grayscale monitors) The problem is that when I have an character application that displays input fields in reverse video the Xterm text cursor gets lost on the edge of the input field. The solution would appear to be to set the xterm cursor to a line rather than a block, but how do you do this. I can't find any means although various sources seem to indicate it can be done. When the xterm loses the input focus the cursor becomes an outlined block. This would also be preferable but I can't seem to force this to be the default either. Configuration is : Motorola 88K X11R4 Please reply by email if poss. Thank you -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Steve Weet - European Mis - Motorola Cellular Subscriber Group Beechgreen Court, Chineham, Basingstoke, HANTS England. Phone : +44 (0)256 790154 E-Mail stevew@chineham.euro.csg.mot.com Fax : +44 (0)256 817481 Mobile : +44 (0)850 335105 Post : w10075 --
One of the monitors I reviewed for the June issue of Windows Magazine was the Mitsubishi. I also reviewed a new Nanao, the F550iW, which has just been released. Last year for the May '92 issue of Windows, I reviewed several monitors, including the Nanao T560i. There's no question that the Nanao monitors are the best available this year, just as they were last year. The difference between my ranking of the best in Windows and the ranking in Windows Sources is due mainly to a difference in the testing criteria and the scoring. I used different tests than they did, and I scored differently. There's nothing wrong with the Mitsubishi, and it scored very highly in my tests, but it was a few points shy of perfect. Incidentally, one of the things everyone should do when they're reading reviews of any product, whether it's monitors or mice, is to read the criteria and methodology carefully. Unless you know how the product testing was done, and on what the scores are based, you can't possibly know what they really mean. Just seeing that I rank a monitor differently from Windows Sources is meaningless without knowing how we did the ranking. Likewise, it's impossible to tell whether a monitor will meet your needs unless you know how we did the testing. After all, some of what we do may not apply to you. Likewise, some of what we do may apply more closely in one review than in another. You can't always tell anything from reading the 300 or so words of commentary we write if you don't also understand the scoring.
Koc) responded to article <1993Apr22.152937.14766@urartu.sdpa.org> dbd@urartu. [DD] Problem 1 [DD] [DD] My father told me the following story. During the famous wars between the [DD] Armenians and the Persians, prince Zaurak Kamsarakan performed [DD] extraordinary heroic deeds. Three times in a single month he attacked the [DD] Persian troops. The first time, he struck down half of the Persian army. [DD] The second time, pursuing the Persians, he slaughtered one fourth of the [DD] soldiers. The third time, he destroyed one eleventh of the Persian army. [DD] The Persians who were still alive, numbering two hundred eighty, fled to [DD] Nakhichevan. And so, from this remainder, find how many Persian soldiers [DD] there were before the massacre. [Koc] Answer: a(1-1/2-1/4-1/11)=280 -> a = 1760 Good for you! You win the prize -- a free trip to Karabakh as an Azeri soldier! Now, calculate the odds of you coming back after trying to de-populate the area of Armenians! [Koc] Corollary: Armenians strike, slaughter, destroy, and massacre. After [Koc] all, they are not as innocent as the asala network claims. Fact: I didn't notice any mention of Turks in Shirak, Van, or Trebizon in this seventh century story! Fact: These places were filled with Armenians as of 1915. Fact: By the end of 1916, after the Turkish genocide of the Armenians, there were no Armenians left in Shirak, Van, or Trebizon -- only Turks and Kurds! In fact, there were no Pontus Greeks left alive in Trebizon either! Conclusion: Numbers don't lie in either case!
The scenario and genocide staged by the Armenians 78 years ago in x-Soviet Armenia is being reenacted again - this time in Azerbaijan. The stories of survivors of Karabag massacre are in 'Milliyet' today. 69 year old Hatin Nine telling: -''My Twin grandchildren were cut to pieces in front of my eyes. They told me: We won't kill you. But the babies have to die in front of your eyes.'' 72 year old Huseyin Ibrahimoglu: - ''Our Turkish village in Khojalu Town was blown up in two hours. Turks, you must die.'' 28 year old Gulsum Huseyin: - ''They bayonetted my 3 year old daughter in her stomach in front of my eyes.'' Are these stories lies? Have the eye-witnesses been day-dreaming? Were these stories forged by Turkish journalists in the region? The nonsense of such a claim is clear from the writings of British Journalists, too. Two days before we had quoted from a Sunday Times article. They[British] reported the events in Karabag even before Turkish journalists. What is more here are the pictures. Pictures of people who were bayonetted, whose eyes were gouged, ears cut off. Even the Armenian Radio couldn't claim these "lies." They are saying "exaggeration." That means ''somethings'' have happened but the situation is not as bad as reported. Perhaps that village of Khojalu town was destroyed in 4 hours, instead of 2... Or Gulsum Huseyin's 3 year old daughter was bayonetted in her chest instead of stomach... The massacre is clearly seen with all its dimensions. The effects of this massacre on Karabag and environs cannot be reduced by any word. Some of the western press', led by some French Newspapers, ability to ''close their eyes'' is nothing but complicity in this massacre. Yesterday we gave samples from Le Figaro. Until yesterday's print no news about the real events in Karabag were printed. So were the French TV channels.. The subject they considered related to Karabag was ''The necessity of protecting Armenians against Azeri attacks.'' The age we are living in is termed a human rights age. There are lots of organizations such as United Nations and CSCE(Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe), and rules, all designed to fight against human rights violations. International reactions must be made with international cooperation. With support of everybody and every organization claiming to be civilized. Could there be a more serious human rights violation than that of the right to live -and with such levels of barbarity and cruelty-? Where is the cooperation? Where are the reactions? And the intellectuals, journalists, writers, TV stations of certain western countries such as France who are fast to claim leadership of "human rights?" Where are you? Serdar Argic
Hi, I'm writing a science fiction script and I'm looking for some answers to questions regarding the Moon and Earth. My starting point is an impossible situation. [I checked with a professor at berkeley and his response was a VERY helpful "can't happen".] If you enjoy playing with unusual ideas and are willing answer some questions please contact me via e-mail (jennise@dgi.com). I get extremely annoyed when screen and tele-plays ignore basic facts about computers that I'm determined to be as scientifically accurate as I can. Sorry for being vague, but I'd like to protect my idea as much as I can until I'm ready to sell it (hopefully).
Henrik (?), Your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. I'm not going to spend time to review with you the recent history of Cyprus. If you are really interested, I can provide you with a number of references on the issue. Just send me EMail for that. Relax! You're swinging fists into open air... I was *agreeing* with you, assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state! You may not be very much used to it, to be agreed with - that is, but take it more easily. !:-) No, Henrik, believe me: You don't hope that. Was that after or before one French plane changed its route to avoid inspection??? -- Onur Yalcin oyalcin@iastate.edu
I have a Fujitsu M2322K which has been removed (I believe) from a digital X-Ray machine (takes X-Ray pictures without film). The Fujitsu part number is B03B-4745-B002A. I have obtained some data on the device, it is 8-inch winchester-type of 168 megabyte capacity (though I was told it was over 800 megabytes). However, there is very little information on the interface standard used. It appears to use two balanced-line connections, but what each connection corresponds to I know not. One connection is a 30-way IDC, the other a 60-way IDC. If anyone has any information on this device, I would be most grateful if you could provide it. Thanks. Chris Powell.
Yeah, I'm also curious as to why you felt compelled to remind us of the guy's race. BTW, I don't mean to imply that you're clueless or anything, but the statement was *hardly* "benign". --
---------- Don't worry, Danny, every blatantly violent and abusive posting made by Hamzah is immediately forwarded to the operator of the system in which he has an account. I'd imagine they have quite a file started on this fruitcake--and have already indicated that they have rules governing racist and threatening use of their resources. I'd imagine he'll be out of our hair in a short while.
To compute this, and many other astronomical things, go and get (x)ephem written by Elwood C. Downey. It is e.g. on export.lcs.mit.edu
I'd love to know how "Jesus only" proponents would answer questions like: -Who is this "Father" Jesus keeps referring to? Why does He call Himself "the Son"? -Why does He pray to the Father, and not to himself? -Why does He emphasize that he does his Father's will, and not his own? If He was doing his own will, what kind of example is that? Should we follow it? -When He says he has to return to the Father, who is He going to? -When He says he does this in order that the Comforter, the Holy Spirit might come, who might that be? -If He claims that the coming of the Holy Spirit is such a blessing that it's worth His leaving us and returning to the Father, what can that mean if there is no Holy Spirit? -Why doesn't the best known Christian prayer begin "Our Saviour, who art in heaven," rather than "Our Father?" Do they have answers to these questions that are even plausible? (Further entertaining queries are left as an exercise to the reader.) -drt -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Considering that you can get a brand new Sounds Blaster (original) for around $80 I think this price is way too high. Then again, things are worth what someone is will to pay for them.... -Jason
Bobby: Get this the hell out of your .sig until you 1) learn what it stands for and 2) really mean it. /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ Bob Beauchaine bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM They said that Queens could stay, they blew the Bronx away, and sank Manhattan out at sea.
Maybe I'm a little tired but I can't seem to follow the logic here. If whatever is held true on earth is held true in heaven how is it that a priest (RC only apparently) is required. In fact if I read the next verse correctly (Matthew 18:19) I understand that for a marriage to take place only two are required to agree on earth touching one thing and it shall be done. Todd
Can anyone recomend a good book or article on inter-client communications BESIDES I.C.C.M.? I've looked everywhere I can and it seems everyone tells you how to do it but nobody SHOWS you how. O'Reilly has no examples, ICCM has no examples, Asente & Swick give no examples - in fact most of the books I've looked at, if they discuss ICC at all, simply give a condensed version of the ICCM and then refer you to the ICCM. I did find one example of how to use Atoms and Properties in Young's book and five hours after I bought Young's book I had my applications talking to each other. I am not sure, however, if thats the best way. I'd like to stay independent of Unix so pipes and/or sockets probably aren't the way to go. But within X one can also use messages, the clipboard, and perhaps window groups. I need a text that discusses the various methods, discusses which method is best for which purpose, and gives examples. Without examples it's all just words. Thanks in advance
On Sat, 17 Apr 1993 20:42:58 GMT, Greg Hennessy observed: : #Tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced .... : Ah, ending discrimination is now fascism. Is that what they called it when Truman forced integration of the armed forces, despite the opposition of Congress and most of the American public at that time? -- Michael D. Adams (starowl@a2i.rahul.net) Enterprise, Alabama
: : >> Please enlighten me. How is omnipotence contradictory? : : >By definition, all that can occur in the universe is governed by the rules : >of nature. Thus god cannot break them. Anything that god does must be allowed : >in the rules somewhere. Therefore, omnipotence CANNOT exist! It contradicts : >the rules of nature. : : Obviously, an omnipotent god can change the rules. When you say, "By definition", what exactly is being defined; certainly not omnipotence. You seem to be saying that the "rules of nature" are pre-existant somehow, that they not only define nature but actually cause it. If that's what you mean I'd like to hear your further thoughts on the question.
Since I was the one responsible for these divergent threads of approx. 40+ posts (going back to: The Braves could be better off if an injury happens), I may as well inject a little more fuel to the flame! 1) Back at the beginning of Spring Training, I though Lopez would make the squad easily. Olson was still recovering from his late-season injury (knee, I believe), and there were questions as to whether he would be able to play before June. And then Berryhill was dinged up. I was looking forward to this, because I believe that Lopez can hit AND field the position. Before last season, he was the Braves "Defensive Catcher" prospect, while Brian Deak was the Braves "Offensive Catcher" prospect. Besides, Olson and Berryhill couldn't hit their way out of a wet cardboard box, and don't walk enough to be useful. But Olson recovered quickly, Berryhill recovered, and the Braves went with the two vets. I still say that if one of those two had been down at the start of the season, he wouldn't have gotten his job back. 2) There is a certain logic to keeping Olson and Berryhill around. After all, ML catchers are in short supply and suffer from wear and tear. There are teams out there without ONE average ML catcher (California and Seattle come to mind). Certainly, trying to move Olson or Berryhill through waivers would be unlikely to work. Plus, you'd have to eat that salary, which isn't huge, but isn't tiddleywinks either (I think Olson's at about $800,000, Berryhill at $450,000, but that's only what I recall). 3) Yes, I think arbitration-eligibility may have a role to play in this also. What is it, that 5/6 of the 2+year players aren't eligible for arbitration? Only the 1/6 that were on the roster the longest are eligible? Of course, the system may change, but the extent of that change is not yet known. From a business standpoint, it may make sense to keep Lopez down until June/the first time Olson/Berryhill go on the DL. 4) I am still disappointed that Lopez isn't on the team. I still prefer to think of myself as a fan when it comes to the Braves, and the truth is that I'd rather see our best team on the field, which, IMO, includes Lopez. Of course,today we play the Cubs. Hopefully, we won't need him. ;) As for the Schuerholz/Cox conversation, I imagine it went like this: (Remember, they've BOTH been GM's) (the following is not meant to be read by the humor-impaired) Cox: OK, we've sent Jones down. His fielding could be a little smoother. Besides, Blauser can hit OK and his fielding is better than it used to be. Schuerholz: Well, we'll have to send Nieves down too. Deion just won't sign that baseball only contract. We can't count on him in October, so we have to keep Nixon around for the defense. Besides, Gorman's not ready to give up on Billy Hatcher yet. Once Hatcher's gone AND Deion signs, we can move Nixon for Frankie Rodriguez. That ought to give us some pitching depth in 1995. Cox: Yep, that'll be nice. Too bad Deion won't sign. OK, I'll look for Nieves when Justice starts having Berry-Berry...er, back problems again. Now, what about Klesko? Schuerholz: Well, we've still got to fork out another 1.5 mil for Bream. If we keep Klesko, we either lose the money or Cabrera. I keep dangling Sid in front of Dal Maxwell, but somehow he doesn't seem to be the same GM. First Jeffries for Jose, and now Whiten for Clark! If he gets rid of Brian Jordan, then I'd HAVE to believe that he and Whitey Herzog switched bodies at the Winter Meetings! Cox: OK, keep trying on Bream, and I'll wait til the trading deadline for my Hunter/Klesko platoon. Maybe I can get a few extra at-bats for Cabrera while we wait. Try California... if Snow starts slowly, maybe WhiteyDal will bite on Sid. And if that doesn't work, then perhaps Sid's knees could be "persuaded" to act up. There's always the 15-day DL! Mwa-ha-ha-ha-ha! Schuerholz: What about Caraballo? Cox: Well, he's not that much better than Lemke. Maybe if he starts in Richmond, he'll start walking more. Besides, if he's going to be arbitration-eligible, better to stretch him out so that we actually get some value from him before he makes the big bucks. Schuerholz: Now, let's see. That leaves Lopez. Cox: NOOOOO! I gotta keep Lopez! Sure, I didn't think Olson would recover this quickly. Maybe I can talk Caminiti into running into him again? Schuerholz: Nope, Lopez has gotta go. You know that he'll get $3 million in arbitration. May as well put it off that one extra year. Besides, until Olson's shown his stuff a little bit, I can't trade him. Besides, Berryhill's a left-handed hitter. You know how rare that is? Cox: Don't you mean a left-handed whiffer? Pretty common, if you ask me. I mean, he made Pat Borders look good in the World Series. PAT BORDERS!!! Schuerholz: Hey, you're the one who wouldn't write Lopez into the lineup. Cox: Well, you're the one who went out and got me Jeff Reardon! Besides, I thought Lopez wouldn't be used to our pitching staff's stuff. He got some time with them this spring...looked pretty good. Come on, surely we only need to keep one stiff behind the plate? Schuerholz: Yeah, but which stiff? Whichever one we keep will be hurt by May. Cox: OK, OK, you made your point. Keep them both. Surely one of them will be on the DL by June at the latest. Then I can call up Lopez, and then we can win 110 games! The Pennant! THE WORLD SERIES! I'll be up there with John McGraw! Casey Stengel! Earl Weaver! Oh, they laughed at me in Toronto, but have you ever had to deal with George Bell? I'll finally get my just reward! Mwa-ha-ha-ha! Schuerholz: Easy, Bobby. Have you been taking those "happy pills" left around by Chuck Tanner? Why'd you ever hire that guy anyhow? Cox: Don't ask me; ask Ted. ------------------------------------------------------- Eric Roush fierkelab@ bchm.biochem.duke.edu "I am a Marxist, of the Groucho sort" Grafitti, Paris, 1968 TANSTAAFL! (although the Internet comes close.)
Great! I'll visit the National Air and Space Museum at the end of the month with my wife, who was also working at General Atomic at the time. Once again netnews has enriched my life.
Hello, I am trying to hook an Apple Imagewriter to my IBM Clone. I seem to have a problem configuring my lpt port to accept this. How can you adjust baud, parity, etc. to fit the system? I tried MODE, but it did not work. If anyone can help, post of e-mail. Thanx.
I have a 386/40 motherboard with AMI BIOS. I haven't located the little motherboard manual yet, and suddenly it's giving me 10 beeps when I turn the power on. It was working fine this morning, then gave all kinds of problems, in Windows and outside it. After multiple reboots, now it only gives 10 beeps and sits there?
Well, this particular thread of vituperation slopped its venom over into alt.atheism, where we spend most of our time entertaining arguments against our belief system, without resorting to accusing others of bigotry. It's somewhat ironic that our exposure to bigotry happens in this instance to have originated in rec.scouting, since I always understood scouting to teach tolerance and diversity. I understand bigotry to be irrational prejudice against other people who happen to be of a different race, religion, ethnic background, sex, or other inconsequential characteristics. All the evidence I've seen indicates that sexual orientation and lack of belief in gods are exactly such inconsequential characteristics. Thus, pending further evidence, I conclude that those who show prejudice against such people are bigots, and organizations that exclude such people are discriminatory.
Hi,
While Atlanta has the undisputed best starting rotation, I feel that their relief staff may be suspect. They don't have a real closer -- although Mike Stanton (4 saves) has been used in that role. Didn't Stanton start off great last year and then falter? Despite this, your point is well taken. Atlanta doesn't seem to have the same personality as a NY team, thus is unlikely to self-destruct. For Houston to take 'em, Atlanta needs to suffer some injuries, particularly to their starting rotation. From what I understand, Boever and Murphy were considered expendable by the club. Houston felt that their positions could be filled by a number of players.. Art Doug Jones is the key to Houston's success. He must have another great year for Houston to challenge in the NL West. lousey spring. Right! A strong rotation will take the pressure off of the troubling bullpen. The unsuspected strength of the lower part of the order has saved the club so far. Biggio and Finley just aren't doing their job of getting on base. Instead of filling his role as an RBI man, Bagwell has had to assume Biggio and Finley's job. Biggio concerns me, since he usually starts the season very strong. * * * * * * On a side note, are you at all concerned with the rumors concerning next year's uniform? There is talk that their road uniform will be (blech..) traditional grey, with the word "HOUSTON" written across the chest. If I'm not mistaken, their home uniforms may totally eliminate the color orange (shiver..). McLane's favorite color is red, so... I'm really upset.. the current unforms are dull and the new ones sound horrible. I'd like to see the uniform of the mid-1980s return. They may not have been pretty, but Houston had established a long precident of wearing the ugliest uniforms in baseball -- and I liked it. Astros fan since the days of Ryan, Scott, Smith, Cruz, Davis, Bass, Hatcher...
The problem is with ISA bus-masters which can only address the first 16MBs of system memory. Bus-masters do not use the CPU nor the system DMA to do the actual data transfer but transfer their data directly to the system RAM. rp93
>Loud pipes are a biligerent exercise in ego projection, No arguements following, just the facts. I was able to avoid an accident by revving my engine and having my *stock* Harley pipes make enough noise to draw someones attention. I instinctively revved my engine before I went for my horn. Don't know why, but I did it and it worked. Thats rather important. I am not saying "the louder the pipes the better". My Harley is loud and it gets me noticed on the road for that reason. I personally do not feel it is to loud. If you do, well thats to bad; welcome to America - "Home of the Free, Land of the Atlanta Braves". If you really want a fine tuned machine like our federal government to get involved and pass Db restrictions; it should be generous enough so that a move like revving your engine will get you noticed. Sure there are horns but my hand is already on the throttle. Should we get into how many feet a bike going 55mph goes in .30 seconds; or how long it would take me to push my horn button?? And aren't you the guy that doesn't even have a bike???
You can also just put the detector off to the side on the dash so the cop doesn't see it right away...Valentine is the best detector by far (as stated by Car and Driver) and even tells you what direction the radar is coming from. It also gives the amount of "threats" it is picking up, so if you go through the same place everyday, and it always goes off there, you can glance at the number of "threats" the Valentine is detecting to see if it is a genuine cop. It's about $300 and you can only get it factory direct..one problem. Rob Fusi rwf2@lehigh.edu
What evidence are you aware of. What was reported in the media, or all of the evidence that was presented at the trial. This sounds to me a lot like the first Rodney King 5 trial. A bunch of people who saw 10 to 15 seconds out of a several minute long video, decided that they knew more than people who had sat through a two week trial.
We are getting a memory fault and a core dump whenever we end a Motif session under Ultrix 4.3, running on a DEC 5000/240. An examintion of the core file leads us to believe it's from getcons. Does anyone know what this is all about? marc
[Procedural note: Ted directed followups to misc.legal only. While I respect his right to do so, my own opinions are that (1) "Followup-To" fields are mere suggestions, not mandatory commands and (2) this issue is of sufficient (a) general political relevance and (b) civil liberties interest to warrant keeping it active in t.p.m and a.s.c-l as well, at least for this round.] Okay, now here's my interpretation of _Boomer_, based on the facts as presented in the New York Court of Appeals<*> holding (_Boomer v. <*>Note: The New York Court of Appeals is the highest court in New York State. While the United States and 48 of the fifty states call their highest court "Supreme Court," "Supreme Judicial Court" or "Supreme Court of Appeals," Maryland and New York call theirs simply the "Court of Appeals." To make matters worse, New York also calls its _second-highest_ court the "Supreme Court, Appellate Division"... Atlantic Cement Co._, 26 N.Y.2d 219, 257 N.E.2d 870 (1970)): Oscar H. Boomer, et al., owned land near the Atlantic Cement company's plant near Albany, N.Y. (The fact pattern gives no information as to which came first, the plaintiff's acquisition of the land or he defendant's start of production at their cement plant.) In the course of its regular operations, the cement plant did injury to the plaintiffs' property via dirt, smoke and vibrations emanating from the plant. The plaintiffs sought injunctive relief -- that is, they asked the court to order Atlantic Cement to stop damaging their property. (Commentary: this seems entirely reasonable to me. Boomer at al owned their property and, presumably, a right to quiet enjoyment of it. Atlantic Cement's actions were depriving Boomer et al of that right.) Instead of granting the plaintiffs' request for an injunction, the court ordered them to accept the damage being done to their property, provided that Atlantic Cement paid them $185,000 in compensatory damages. In other words, the court granted Atlantic Cement Co., a private party, the power and authority to _take_ the plaintiffs rights to quiet enjoyment of their property by eminent domain. A taking by eminent domain is always problematical even when it's done by the state; allowing a private firm to do it is, in my opinion, totally wrong. (Yes, I know, the _Boomer_ court didn't call it eminent domain. But if it walks like eminent domain and swims like eminent domain and quacks like eminent domain...) Let me take issue with the way you've presented the case... you say that "What happened in _Boomer_ was that the judge didn't allow the plaintiffs to blackmail the cement plant by demanding a multi-million dollar plant to be shut down over $185,000 in damages." Blackmail? (Pulls out Black's Law Dictionary, Abridged 5th Edition.... "Blackmail: Unlawful demand of money or property under threat to do bodily harm, to injure property, to accuse of crime, or to expose disgraceful defects. This crime is commonly included under extortion statutes.") How do you define as "blackmail" one party's act of demanding the right to set its own sale price for a unique piece of property which it owns and which another party has expressed an interest in buying? Or of demanding the right not to sell that property at any price? As I see it, Boomer et al, having found themselves in the fortunate position of owning something which Atlantic Cement had to purchase if it wanted to stay in business, had every right in the world to set whatever price they wanted. There isn't, or at least shouldn't be, any law that says that you have to be a nice guy in your private business dealings. You go on to say: "The plant would never have been shut down -- the plaintiff's lawyers would have just negotiated a windfall settlement, because the plaintiffs would prefer an amount greater than $185K to having the plant shut down, while the plant would prefer any amount less than the value of the plant to have the plant continue in operation." If so, so what? Since when are the courts supposed to be in the business of preventing parties from reaping windfall settlements from other parties when those settlements arise from wrongful acts by those other parties? If Atlantic Cement didn't want to have to face a choice between paying a windfall settlement or going out of business, well, shouldn't Atlantic Cement have thought of that before going _into_ business? (I note that as far as the facts show Boomer et al were _not_ the parties responsible for bringing about this situation -- that was Atlantic Cement's own fault for choosing to build and operate the type of plant they did where and when they did.) And then you say: "Everyone's property rights were protected; the plaintiffs were made whole; unnecessary settlement costs were avoided." As above, I dispute your claim that the plaintiffs were "made whole." They were, in fact, by court action deprived of their rights as owners of property to choose to sell or not sell that property at a price acceptable to them. And for that deprivation they were _not_ made whole. And again I ask: Since when are the courts supposed to be in the business of ensuring that "unnecessary" settlement costs are avoided? (If so, I've been miseducated -- I always thought that the courts were supposed to be in the business of ensuring that justice is done.) (1) _Boomer_ is not being taught as "infamous," at least not at my school. (Aside: Northeastern Law usually does a very good job of hiring for their first-year, mandatory classes (such as Torts, where I first encountered _Boomer_) instructors who, regardless of their personal opinions, can and do teach the law neutrally. When the students get into their second and third years, in which the students (a) can pick and choose which courses to take (except for the mandatory Professional Responsibility, of course) and (b) are presumed to be a bit more worldly and self-confident, less likely to be consciously or sub-consciously intimidated by Law School Professors and able to learn from openly biased instructors rather than be indoctrinated by them, the instructors tend to be more open in expressing their own opinions. This is especially true of part-time instructors who, in real life, are practicing attorneys or sitting judges... this can be _very_ educational, sometimes far more so than being taught by a somewhat cloistered scholar. End of aside.) I called it infamous because that's my opinion of it. For the reasons I've stated above, I believe it to be a triumph of something that I can only call "economic correctness" over justice. (2) It is "completely sensible" only if you believe that the alleged right of the owners of Atlantic Cement to stay in business and avoid losing a lot of their own money due to their own wrongful act, and the alleged right of several hundred Atlantic Cement employees to not have their jobs disappear, should trump the rights of people who own property which was damaged by Atlantic Cement's wrongful acts. (And if you believe that it is correct for the courts (or any other branch of government) to grant to private parties the right to take other people's property by eminent domain.) Really? I didn't know that... what, if anything, has he had to say about cases like _Boomer_? I've admitted that my understanding of the field generally referred to as "law and economics" is weak. If it advocates the use of economical analysis as one of many "tie-breaker" factors which courts may use to help them reach decisions in cases in which the dispute, as measured by the scale of "justice", is evenly balanced, fine. But as illustrated by _Boomer_, it is _not_ fine when the courts start viewing the economics of a case as being more important than the justice of a case.
Armenia is involved in fighting with Azarbaijan. It is Armenian soldiers from mainland Armenia that are shelling towns in Azarbaijan. You might wish to read more about whether or not it is Azeri aggression only in that region. It seems to me that the Armenians are better organized, have more success militarily and shell Azeri towns repeatedly. I don't wish to get into the Cyprus discussion. Turkey had the right to intervene, and it did. Perhaps the intervention was not supposed to last for so long, but the constant refusal of the Greek governments both on the island and in Greece to deal with reality is also to be blamed for the ongoing standoff in the region. Lastly, why is there not a soc.culture.armenia? I vote yes for it. After all, it is now free.
: The Selective Service Registration should be abolished. To start with, the : draft is immoral. Whether you agree with that or not, we don't have one now, : and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior : with a volunteer army than with draftees. Finally, the government has us : on many lists in many computers (the IRS, Social Security Admistration and : Motor Vehicle Registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to. : Maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. : Let's axe this whole department, and reduce the deficit a little bit. Let me say this about that, as a retired Navy officer; I agree. Cut it. But let's not stop there. Eliminate the C-17 transport. Overwight, overdue, overbudget, it was supposed to carry tanks. New tanks are now too big for the airplane. Scrap the Seawolf SSN-21 nuclear submarine. The breakup of the USSR has left us with a number of sticky military problems, but NONE of them will require "God's gift to submarines". Ground the B-2 stealth bomber. I'm sure it's a great airplane that will do EVERYTHING its designers said, but at half-a-gigabuck a copy, we can't afford for even ONE to crash. And airplanes DO crash. Elmo Zumwalt said it best 20+ years ago; "High/Low". A MIX of a FEW extremely capable weapons systems and a LOT of CHEAPER, moderate-capability systems. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ken Mitchell | The powers not delegated to the United States by the kmitchel@netcom.com| Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are Citrus Heights, CA | reserved to the States respectively, or to the People.
No one should EVER rely on just a magazine to determine what car they buy, I don't care what magazine. Btw, I subscribe to three other auto rags, I just think CU is getting a bum rap by these macho men from hell who think real men should read . . . . Statements like what you said above have no meaning. People keep on saying "CU is only good for dishwashing detergent" or as you all they say. If there were as critical of themsevles as they are of CU maybe there would be some real content. john
HELLO, shit face david, I see that you are still around. I dont want to see your shitty writings posted here man. I told you. You are getting itchy as your fucking country. Hey , and dont give me that freedom of speach bullshit once more. Because your freedom has ended when you started writing things about my people. And try to translate this "ebenin donu butti kafa David.". BYE, ANACIM HADE. TIMUCIN
It's come to this, has it? Defending Al Gore by comparing him to Dan Quayle? I'd say that about says it all... back to the pit with ye, back to alt.fan. dan-quayle! Begone! ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Paul Havemann (Internet: paul@hsh.com)
Hello World, just bought a new Stealth two weeks ago. Got a grad student rebate. Someone told me that there's another $400 reabet for 1st time Chrysler buyer. True ? If yes can I still get it or am I too late ?
On export.lcs.mit.edu directory contrib, and avahi.inria.fr directory pub/xpm: xpm-3.2f-to-3.2g.patch.Z xpm-3.2g.tar.Z /* Copyright 1990-93 GROUPE BULL -- See license conditions in file COPYRIGHT */ /**************************************************************************\ * * * HISTORY of user-visible changes * * * \**************************************************************************/ 3.2g (93/04/26) ENHANCEMENTS: - much faster close colors - piping from/to compressed files now handles GNU's gzip (.z) format - added XpmColorKey attribute - ability to specify which visual's colors to use (ie: now it's possible to read in a pixmap in a color visual, but use the colors specified for monochrome). - added -mono, -grey4, -grey and -color options to sxpm to demonstrate the XpmColorKey attribute. - Jason Patterson <jasonp@fitmail.qut.edu.au> BUGS CORRECTED: - fixed bug where redefining "None" as a pixel stopped mask generation - minor SVR4 defines for <string.h> - fixed annoying closecolor bug related to read/write color cells - fixed minor bug in color value -> pixel overloading - manual updated to include new red/green/blue closeness attributes - Jason Patterson <jasonp@fitmail.qut.edu.au> - the top Imakefile was missing the depend target - sxpm/Imakefile fixed so that -L../lib is set before the standard library location. - Vivek Khera <khera@cs.duke.edu> - lib/xpmP.h now defines bcopy as memcpy for VMS (required by recent versions of VMS) - J. Daniel Smith <dsmith@ann-arbor.applicon.slb.com> - the lib/Imakefile didn't work with X11R4.
G'day people, Are there any MR2 owners or motor-head gurus out there, that know why my MR2's engine sounds noisy? The MR2's engine is noisy at the best of times, but not even a nice nose - it's one of those very ugly noises. I do an oil change every 2-3 months, and for about 2 months the engine noise sounds relatively quiet during driving and idling. At around the 3 month mark, after an oil change (I've been tracking this very thoroughly for months now) it starts to get that very disgusting noise, not so much during driving, but more so during idling. What's its problem? Also.. I don't know if it's just me, but if noticed a little performance drop. It just hasn't got the acceleration it used to. Any help/tips would be appreciated!!
I sold a bike via the net to a young lady who lived in Salt Lake City. I live near Lost Angeles. It turned out we had mutual aquaintances at UCLA as well.
There are many neutral human rights organizations which always report on the situation in the O.T. But, as most people used to see on TV, the Israelis do not allow them to go deep there in the O.T. The Israelis used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters. So, this is another kind of terrorism committed by the Jews in Palestine. They do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in Palestine.
FOR SALE: Orchid Fareheit 1280 24bit color card -1 meg -almost new $200 or best offer This is a post for a friend Call him (Thuan Pho) at 314-368-3624
Howdy! I'm just posting this for a friend so don't reply to me! I have a friend who has some 1x9 SIMMS for sale, 8MB for $250 or 4MB for 125$. He also has a Conner 170MB hard drive for $250. It runs at 14ms. His name is John and he can be reached at his BBS called Classified Connection at (614)575-1345, he is the Sysop, and you can call him and hear his awesome voice at (614)577-9673. Adios
I'd have to say that I have a problem with any organization, religious or not, where the idea that _simple speech_ such as this is the basis for a crime.
No, I don't watch that Bu**Sh*t. So, does this mean the cop is at fault for rear-ending the bike? You know, following too closely and reckless driving?
Nope, I've answered each question posed, and most were answered multiple times.
I would doubt that you would be able to use the hard drive. XT drives usually came in MFM or RLL flavors. I bet your 386SX has IDE drives. The two are not compatible on the same controller. However, you might be able to use the drive *with its controller* in your 386SX. You should be able to plug your 360K drive into your existing 386SX controller (I think). You might have to use the floppy controller that was used in the XT.
Every bit as fast as a dirtbike, in the right terrain. And we eat flies, thank you. then why does it go down? So do most helmetless motorcyclists. helmetless != goggleless
If anyone has any information about the existence or location of a dedicated X server kernel for the Sun3, please send email. I am trying to put some neglected Sun3s to good use but they don't have enough memory for SunOS 4.1.1. Thanks in advance for any help. --
The immunization program is just a "useful first step". Among other things, the money will go to pay for creating and maintaning a a computerized "innoculation" database on all U.S. children. (code-named Big Mother... Just kidding, the name will be Children Defense Database, or something like that.) Once the money is spent and little or no tangible results achieved, the goverment will have to start knocking down doors, in some neigborhoods, and bribe parents in others (probably the ones that are paying kids for attending the school - what a fantastic idea!) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Disclaimer: Opinions expressed are mine, not my employer's.
How many runs will be scored in Denver? I don't know. but some idea can be gotten by looking at the runs scored in Mile High Stadium during the last few years of the Bears/Zephyrs tenure in the American Association. Here's the total runs scored per game in Zephyrs games, all league games and the ratio. I found the same ratios for HR. Year rpg lea ratio hrpg lea ratio 1992 10.22 9.10 1.12 1.65 1.58 1.04 1991 9.53 8.87 1.07 1.41 1.26 1.12 1990 10.71 8.72 1.23 1.49 1.24 1.20 1989 9.07 8.34 1.09 1.27 1.11 1.14 1988 9.90 8.37 1.18 1.29 1.08 1.19 1987 12.55 10.70 1.17 2.39 1.92 1.24 1986 9.45 9.33 1.01 1.35 1.38 .98 1985 9.50 8.54 1.11 1.53 1.34 1.14 1984 9.99 9.10 1.10 1.55 1.59 .97 1983 10.60 9.99 1.06 2.03 1.74 1.17 1982 11.29 10.35 1.09 2.24 1.91 1.17 1981 10.29 9.25 1.11 1.43 1.49 .96 1980 10.59 9.43 1.12 1.63 1.46 1.12 1446/13-->1.11 1444/13-->1.11 It seems pretty clear that Denver will have a large effect on runs scored (I'll stick with my prediction from last year that it'll be one of the top 3 in the NL this year) and a fairly large effect on Homeruns - though apparently not as large as Atlanta, Wrigley, Cincinnati and San Diego. Still it ought to be a pretty decent home run park.
^^^^^^^^^^ Well, Dale, I'd say offhand "Keel-hauling" would work pretty well...we haven't had a good "keel-hauling" in a long time... (Sorry, it came up in a conversation yesterday and, well, I just love that phrase...) Or maybe just ask for folks to flood the guys mailbox with the FAQ for net-etiquitte...sort of poetic justice for all the junk mail he was trying to generate anyway... Tom T
That is absolutely correct. They have a streak of meanness that runs much deeper and stronger than anything I ever experienced even during the height of the 60's racial struggles. I am absolutely convinced that there are kids out there today that have no concept of right and wrong, but have the human intelligence which is turning them into the greatest predators that have ever walked the earth. They will prevail unless the rest of humanity decides that it is in their best interest to stand up against these feral humans, and for individuals to start taking some responsibility for their own protection. In a state in which the individuals turn to the authorities and police for protection, the police and government is soon composed of the very feral humans that they originally sought protection from. Gee, I guess you touched my hot button. I'd better go cool off somewhere.
I'd like to converse with anyone who has purchased a 1993 Honda Civic about their experience. I'm new to the car buying game and would like to know what price I can expect to pay for a sedan after bargaining. Thanks in advance,
For an upcoming project I want to use 4 Megs of DRAM configured as two 2 Meg banks of 16 bit data. I was wondering if anyone out there knows of a DRAM controller which will handle refreshing the data. It's ok if the controller doesn't handle bank switching - that part is easy. The only controllers I know of are the ones out of the National Semiconductor DRAM Management Handbook (1988 edition) eg. DP8429. I would like to know if another manufacturer produces one which may be easier to implement in my circuit. BTW, if anyone is wanting to hook up DRAM to a microcontroller, Dallas Semiconductor makes a neat chip: the DS1262 Serial DRAM Nonvolatizer Chip. It uses the SPI (I2C) bus and refreshes/controls up to 16Mx1 of DRAM memory. It can use an external battery to refresh the DRAM when the power is off. Price is $11.75 from Dallas (quan 1). I wish I could use this chip but its maximum SPI clock rate is 1 MHz (too slow for me...). Thanks in advance, Wayne Schellekens <schellew@wu2.wl.aecl.ca>
G'day All, I was looking to build a Parallel Port Digital to Analogue Converter the other day and came across this schematic which I promptly threw together on a piece of VeroBoard: P2----22k----+ P3----48k----| P4----100k---| P5----200k---| P6----400k---| P7----800k---| 10uf electrolytic P8----1M6----| + P9----3M2----+---||--+---------- | + 47nF ceramic - - | - P25------------------+---------- (Please excuse the obvious limits of the Lower ASCII char set :=) I have it all constructed here and sitting inside a nice little grey ABS box. Unfortunately I can't get it to work... I have a little demo here by the name of Cronologia (Which the schematic came from) and all I can get it to pump out of the box is data type hash/static with a small amount of music signal behind it - it's even worse than the speaker inside the machine. Does anybody out in net.colourful.computer.world have any ideas/suggestions/ better designs/improvements/wastepaper bin... etc? Many thanks for a reply via this conference or email. // \X/ Regards, Jason. ---
You really belong to the 25-30% of ignorants in USA who don't know what the Holocaust ("Shoa" should be the real word) was. First you write in Message-ID: <1993Apr24.203620.6531@Virginia.EDU> Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 20:36:20 GMT ^^^^^^^ and later, as somebody informed you about your gross mistake, you write in Message-ID: <1993Apr25.181351.1373@Virginia.EDU> Date: Sun, 25 Apr 1993 18:13:51 GMT ^^^^^^^^ instead of Joseph GOEBBELS. And you dare to say that you "know more about Nazi Germany than most people (maybe including "us")" ? I'm sure you learned the history of Nazi Germany AND Austria from your family. Trying to make comparisons between Israels politics and Nazi German- Austrian politics shows only your degree of ignorance (high), intellect (low), humanity (none) and antisemitism (average). I respect anybody who dissagrees with me as long as he respects me and discusses in a civilized manner. I would never say that anybody that critizises Israel and/or its politics is an antisemite, except he uses antisemitic vocabulary/terminology/demagogy. Israel is not a perfect country and its politicians also commits errors, even some of them are corrupt (like politicians in any other country), but they carry a huge burden: to care for the safety of ALL its citizens, and that is really not an easy task in a country that is surrounded by enemies who only expect that Israel commits the ONE BIG ERROR and wipe the country (and its Jewish citizens plus the so-called collaborators, arabs that wanted to live in peace with their Jewish neighbours) of the map. As I said, Israel is not a perfect country, but it is the ONLY democracy in the whole Middle-East and the only country in the world where Jews from everywhere can have a refuge in case of persecutions in the countries they are living. Our long history has taught us that we cannot rely on non-Jewish nations and its governments: as soon as there are more or les big social-economical-political problems in any country, the first ones that pay for the broken glasses are the Jews, and later the other minorities of the country. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ This is really outrageous: 6.000.000 murdered Jews, besides the thousands who survived the Shoa in some way or another, and the rest of the living ones mourning for all of them ! I don't know what you call a "Civil Libertarian" (never heard about them) but I know only one thing: if all of them think like you do it, then "Civil Libertarians" is a new denomination for Antisemites. May other Civil Libertarians come to word to this group so that we can learn if A.Beyer and me are right (that Civil Libertarians are Antisemites), or that I'm wrong and he is missusing that word. BTW, I couldn't care less for what Andi Beyer appreciates. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Manfredo Tichauer M. EMAIL : tichauer@valpso.hanse.de Opitzstrasse 14 VOICE : (++ 49 40) 27.42.27 2000 Hamburg 60 - GERMANY FAX : (++ 49 40) 270.53.09
See, we are disagreeing on the definition of moral here. Earlier, you said that it must be a conscious act. By your definition, no instinctive behavior pattern could be an act of morality. You are trying to apply human terms to non-humans. I think that even if someone is not conscious of an alternative, this does not prevent his behavior from being moral. I try to show it, but by your definition, it can't be shown. And, morality can be thought of a large class of princples. It could be defined in terms of many things--the laws of physics if you wish. However, it seems silly to talk of a "moral" planet because it obeys the laws of phyics. It is less silly to talk about animals, as they have at least some free will.
A Alan Brock 4/14/93 Orange County Register Editorial titled "A case for repealing the income tax" got my attention. Some quotes: "... a tax on income, because of the flexible definition of that concept, invites the government to snoop into every nook and cranny of our lives. Encouraging people to snoop on one another and report transgressions against the almighty state, which most Americans deplored in Nazi or communist regimes..." "... Although most Americans paid no income tax at all 50 years ago -- withholding began only during World War II, as a "temporary" exigency, and in 1948 the median family federal income tax was $9..." "Last year the federal government got only 37 percent of its income from income taxes... How long ago was it that the federal government somehow managed to stagger along on 63 percent of its 1992 revenue? ... Would you believe five?..."
??? I've heard about that Italian guy distributing Motif binaries for 386BSD, but I haven't heard of anybody doing the same thing for Linux. ... and I do follow the Linux news group pretty closely. So, have I missed something? I'd LOVE to get hold of Motif libs for Linux for $100!
So there are less gays, then the gays claim. Dream on. Abortion and African-American Civil rights rallies don't even bring in half of that. I was wondering why I wasn't getting laid. If it's more, then who cares? Actually, I bet you more gay/bi men are as not as promiscuous as gay men, because more of them could have the "option" of living a straight life, and with social pressures, probably would at least try. Did you know that is is a fact that homosexuality was comparatively high in Hitler's storm troopers (SA) before he came to power. I wonder if they got to put the triangles on themselves......
How can I obtain public information (documentation and sources) about Xservers implemented with graphics processors? I am specially interested in Xservers developed for the TMS34020 Texas Instruments graphic processor.
Hi there, I have a mac 512 with a burned out part which looks like a voltage regulator. The part number is BU 406 and I believe the vender is SGS thomas judging by teh SGS logo printed on the package. If anyone has teh spec for this part I would greatly appreciate an email with the import info so I can find a replacement. Thanx in advance. -Dave dnewman@lynx.northeastern.edu
Now, that Clinton can get e-mail, i'm wondering if Congress is also going on line.. If so, does anyone have the address to reach them?? I'm also looking for Bill's e-mail address. please e-mail me, i am not a regualar reader of this newsgrouop.
[DG] THE U.S. HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM: A COSTLY AND DANGEROUS MISTAKE [DG] by Theodore J. O'Keefe [DG] HARD BY THE WASHINGTON MONUMENT, within clear view of the Jefferson [DG] Memorial, an easy stroll down the Mall to the majestic Lincoln Memorial, [DG] has arisen, on some of the most hallowed territory of the United States of [DG] America, a costly and dangerous mistake. On ground where no monument yet [DG] marks countless sacrifices and unheralded achievements of Americans of all [DG] races and creeds in the building and defense of this nation, sits today a [DG] massive and costly edifice, devoted above all to a contentious and false [DG] version of the ordeal in Europe during World War II, of non-American [DG] members of a minority, sectarian group. Now, in the deceptive guise of [DG] tolerance, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum begins a propaganda [DG] campaign, financed through the unwitting largess of the American taxpayer, [DG] in the interests of Israel and its adherents in America. [JAKE] After reading the first paragraph, a quick scan confirmed my first [JAKE] impression: this is a bunch of revisionist and anti-semitic hogwash. Jake, I'm really disappointed in you. It took you a whole paragraph to see that it was "bunch of revisionist and anti-semitic hogwash". :-) The article title "THE U.S. HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM: A COSTLY AND DANGEROUS MISTAKE" should have been enough! :-) Tsiel
The front covers should be available from Sony. Check with a local car stereo shop. You will probably (definitely) have to provide the units serial number and hopefully you had registered the warranty card. I don't know the cost, but replacements have to be available to people who damage the face cover, so it stands to reason that it can be replaced. As to deterring theft: When I worked for a stereo shop, we referred the customer to a Sony 800 number. We would not sell the face, nor did we have them available. Most people who came in asking for the face cover (or a pullout sleave for that matter) would look very disheartened to find that they acquired a deck they couldn't use. If theft occurs with these decks, notify Sony. Serial numbers do catch theives.
Brand new, still shrink wraped Stealth 24 for sale $150 plus shipping and COD. Specifications: Based on S3 801/805 32bit coporcessor, 1024x768x256 72Hz Ni, 800x600x64K NI, 640x480x16million NI, system requires 386 or 486 based ISA or VESA VL-BUS, with fast TurboWindows drivers for 3.1 and other drivers for other popular softwares like WP, Microsoft Word,Lotus,AutoCad.
Where the hell do you get off calling it "Arab land"? Jews have been living there for a long time. Jews didn't just start arriving in 1900, they've been living there for thousands of years, except for periods when they were expelled but they always returned home. Steve --
To all those out there wondering about who holds the record for three homer games ina career, the answer is Johnny Mize in his career with the Cards and the Yanks. He hit three 6 times. I am almost sure about this. In case anyone is wondering, the record for two homer games is held by Babe Ruth and is 72. Mize's record may not last for much longer because of Juan Gonzalez. He has at least three games with three and maybe 4. I know that he had at least two last year and one as a rookie. I don't have any record books at college for me to check on though. Please let me know, okay, if I am wrong. Onto the Padres. Is there anyone out there who follows them?- especial-ly those with access to local news? I don't here anything in Los Angeles and I can't get McPaper consistently around here. comment: It looks as though San Diego has gotten the better of the two deals that brought Bell and Plantier to the Padres. It has also forced the team to use Darrell Shermann. Of course, Plantier could get injured again or he could hit with the power of 91 but with a lower average. Bell always could finish with .240 and 15-18 hrs-essentially Jerald Clark's numbers. leadoff comment: Craig Shipley?????? I get on base 29% of the time if I'm lucky at leadoff? Hell, of the usual starters, use Gwynn. He's got 4 steals already. Is Shipley starting because of an injury to Stillwell, though? I haven't seen Stillwell's name in any box scores. Anyway unless you are going to use Shermann at leadoff then use Gwynn. He at lesat gets on base and this year is stealing bases. Sheffield comment: Though the season is early and stats mean nothing. Witness Phillips batting .500+ currently. But does Sheffield have an injury, or anythingelse wrong with him. I just don't hear anything. Andy Benes: Is he pitching like he did in the second half of '91? or is this a flash of promise that he throws out evrey now and then? Has anyone seen him pitch the two good games? score for today, Sunday april 18: Padres 10, St Louis 6. Padres sweep the Cardinals as Gwynn goes 5 for 5 with a homer. Sheffield and Tueful also homer in a winning cause. Thanks for listening-reading any comments????
Larry L. Overacker writes, responding to Simon: I may be interesting to see some brief selections posted to the net. My understanding is that SSPX does not consider ITSELF in schism or legitimately excommunicated. But that's really beside the point. What does the Roman Catholic church say? Excommunication can be real apart from formal excommunication, as provided for in canon law. Here's some of the theology involved for the interested. There is confusion over this issue of the SSPX's "schism"; often the basic problem is lack of an ability to distinguish between: - true obedience - false obedience - disobedience - schism Take the various classifications of obedience first. There are 2 important elements involved here for my purposes: 1) a command 2) the response made to the command As far as the command goes, commands can be LEGITIMATE, such as the Pope ordering Catholics to not eat meat on Fridays. Or they can be ILLEGITIMATE, such as the Pope ordering Catholics to worship the god Dagon when every other full moon comes around. As far as the response to a command goes, it can be to REFUSE to do what is commanded, or to COMPLY. Making a table, there are thus 4 possibilites: command response name ----------------------------------------------------- LEGITIMATE COMPLY true obedience ILLEGITIMATE REFUSE true obedience LEGITIMATE REFUSE disobedience ILLEGITIMATE COMPLY false obedience So now you see where my 3 classifications of obedience come from. Obedience is not solely a matter of compliance/refusal. The nature of the commands must also be taken into account; it is not enough to consider someone's compliance or refusal and then say whether they are "obedient" or "disobedient". You also have to take into consideration whether the commands are good or bad. In my example, if the Pope commands all Catholics to worship the god Dagon, and they all refuse, they aren't being disobedient at all! As far as the Society of Saint Pius X goes, they are certainly refusing to comply with certain things the Pope desires. But that alone is insufficient to allow one to label them "disobedient". You also have to consider the nature of the Papal desires. And there's the rub: SSPX says the Popes since Vatican II have been commanding certain very bad things for the Church. The Popes have of course disagreed. So where are we? Are we in another Arian heresy, complete with weak Popes? Or are the SSPX priests modern Martin Luthers? Well, the only way to answer that is to examine who is saying what, and what the traditional teaching of the Church is. The problem here is that very few Catholics have much of an idea of what is really going on, and what the issues are. The religion of American Catholics is especially defective in intellectual depth. You will never read about the issues being discussed in the Catholic press in this country. (On the other hand, one Italian Catholic magazine I get -- 30 Days -- has had interviews with the Superior General of the Society of Saint Pius X.) Many Catholics will decide to side with the Pope. There is some soundness in this, because the Papacy is infallible, so eventually some Pope *will* straighten all this out. But, on the other hand, there is also unsoundness in this, in that, in the short term, the Popes may indeed be wrong, and such Catholics are doing nothing to help the situation by obeying them where they're wrong. In fact, if the situation is grave enough, they sin in obeying him. At the very least, they're wasting a great opportunity, because they are failing to love Christ in a heroic way at the very time that He needs this badly. Schism... let's move on to schism. What is it? Schism is a superset of disobedience (refusal to obey a legitimate command). All schismatics are disobedient. But it's a superset, so it doesn't work the other way around: not all disobeyers are schismatics. The mere fact that the SSPX priests don't comply with the Holy Father's desires doesn't make them schismatics. So what is it that must be added to disobedience to constitute a schism? Maybe this something else makes the SSPX priests schismatics. You must add this: the rejection of the right to command. Look in any decent reference on Catholic theology, and that's what you'll find: the distinguishing criterion of schism is rejection of the right to command. Here's what the Catholic Encyclopedia says, for example: ... not every disobedience is a schism; in order to possess this character it must include besides the trangression of the commands of superiors, denial of their Divine right to command. (from the CE article "Schism") Is the Society of Saint Pius X then schismatic? The answer is a clear no: they say that the Pope is their boss. They pray for him every day. And that's all that matters as far as schism goes. What all this boils down to is this: if we leave aside the consideration of the exact nature of their objections, their position is a legitimate one, as far as the Catholic theology of obedience and schism goes. They are resisting certain Papal policies because they think that they are clearly contrary to the traditional teaching of the Papacy, and the best interests of the Church. (In fact, someone who finds himself in this situation has a *duty* to resist.) Now, what is the stance of Rome on all this? Well, if you read the Holy Father's motu proprio "Ecclesia Dei", you can find out. It's the definitive document on the subject. A motu proprio is a specifically Papal act. It's not the product of a Roman congregation, a letter that the Pope has possibly never even read. It's from the Pope himself. His boss is God... there's no one else to complain to. In this document, the Holy Father says, among other things: 1) The episcopal consecrations performed by Archbishop Lefebvre constituted a schismatic act. 2) Archbishop Lefebvre's problem was a misunderstanding of the nature of Tradtion. Both are confusing: I fail to see the logic of the Pope's points. As far as the episcopal consecrations go, I read an interesting article in a translation of the Italian magazine "Si Si No No". It all gets back to the question of jurisdiction. If episcopal consecrations imply rejection of the Pope's jurisdiction, then they would truly constitute a schismatic act, justifying excommunication under the current code of canon law. But my problem with this is this: according to the traditional theology of Holy Orders, episcopal consecration does not confer jurisdiction. It only confers the power of Order: the ability to confect the Sacraments. Jurisdiction must be conferred by someone else with the power to confer it (such as the Pope). The Society bishops, knowing the traditional theology quite well, take great pains to avoid any pretence of jurisdiction over anyone. They simply confer those Sacraments that require a bishop. The "Si Si No No" article was interesting in that it posited that the reason that the Pope said what he did is that he has a novel, post-Vatican II idea of Holy Orders. According to this idea, episcopal consecration *does* confer jurisdiction. I lent the article to a friend, unfortunately, so can't tell you more. I believe they quoted the new code of canon law in support of this idea. The Pope's thinking on this point remains a great puzzle to me. There's no way there is a schism, according to traditional Catholic theology. So why does the Pope think this? As far as the points regarding the nature of Tradition goes, here's the passage in question: The root of this schismatic act can be discerned in an incomplete and contradictory notion of Tradtion. Incomplete, because it does not take sufficiently into the account the living character of Tradition, which, as the Second Vatican Council clearly taught, comes from the apostles and progresses in the Church with the help of the Holy Spirit. There is a growth in insight into the realities and words that are being passed on. This comes about in various ways. It comes through the contemplation and study of believers who ponder these things in their hearts. It comes from the intimate sense of spiritual realities which they experience. And it comes from the preaching of those who have received, along with their right of succession in the espiscopate, the sure charism of truth. But especially contradictory is a notion of Tradition which opposes the universal Magisterium of the Church possessed by the Bishop of Rome and the body of bishops. It is impossible to remain faithful to the Tradition while breaking the ecclesial bond with him to whom, in the person of the Apostle Peter, Christ himself entrusted the ministry of unity in His Church. (Papal motu proprio "Ecclesia Dei", 2 July 1988) It seems to me that the Holy Father is making two points here that can be simplified to the following: - Vatican Council II has happened. - I am the Pope. The argument being that either case is sufficient to prove that Archbishop Lefebvre must be wrong, because he disagrees with them. This is weak, to say the least! It would have helped clarify things more if the Pope had addressed Archbishop Lefebvre's concerns in detail. What is John Paul II's stand on the social Kingship of Christ, as taught by Gregory XVI, Pius IX, Leo XIII, Pius XI and Pius XII, for example? Are we supposed to ignore what all these Popes said on the subject? I don't know what the future will hold, but the powers that be in the SSPX are still talking with Rome and trying to straighten things out. -------------------------------------------------------------- [Many people would prefer to call a justified refusal to obey "justified disobedience" or even "obeying God rather than man". Calling a refusal to obey obedience puts us into a sort of Alice in Wonderland world where words mean whatever we want them to mean. Similarly, schism indicates a formal break in the church. If the Pope says that a schism exists, it seems to me that by definition it exists. It may be that the Pope is on the wrong side of the break, that there is no good reason for the break to exist, and that it will shortly be healed. But how can one deny that it does in fact exist? It seems to me that you are in grave danger of destroying the thing you are trying to reform: the power of the papacy. What good will it do you if you become reconciled to the the Pope in the future, but in the process, you have destroyed his ability to use the tools of church discipline? It's one thing to hold that the Pope has misused his powers, and excommunicated someone wrongly. It's something else to say that his excommunication did not take effect, and the schism is all in his imagination. That means that acts of church discipline are not legal tools, but acts whose validity is open to debate. Generally it has been liberal Catholics who have had problems with the Pope. While they have often objected to church sanctions, generally they have admitted that the sanctions exist. You are now opening the door to people simply ignoring papal decisions, claiming to be truly obeying by disobeying, and to be in communion while excommunicated. This would seem to be precisely the denial of Divine right to command that you say defines schism.
on wednesday morning, another driver decided to illegally turn left in front of me, doing great damage to my car (Honda Civic). i have yet to pay off the car, and the body shop says the insurance company wants to total the car. i haven't been able to get in touch with the person handling my claim, so i checked on some things: 1) my payout is $3700.00 2) Blue Book retail is $5650.00 3) loan value is $4450.00 4) trade-in value is $4000.00 could anyone give me any advice on what i should/could do if the insurance company does not give me a reasonable amount for the loss of the car. thanks, james baker
Now this is getting interesting! I was raised Roman Catholic before becoming an atheist, so I have stated this Creed you quote nearly every Sunday until I was about 18. For some reason, I always took the 'resurrection' in this statement to mean the resurrection of the soul, but I guess resurrection does strictly mean the raising of the physical body. I have some questions on this point: 1. I always thought that Christians believe the descent into hell was pretty much immediate, and that there are people burning in hell right now. You seem to be implying that it will not occur until after the "great judgement" (which I read as meaning the proverbial Judgment Day). I was always a little confused on this point, even when I was with the church -- maybe someone can clear it up for me. Where will my "soul" (which, by the way, I don't believe in) exist until that time? 2. Will the new body I will have be created out of the same atoms that my body now is made of, or will it be built from scratch? My physical body now is susceptible to aging, etc. -- so I guess my new body will have to be radically different in order to be immortal so it can be tortured for all eternity? 3. Since I will have a physical body, I assume it will need a physical place to exist in -- where is this hell? In the center of the earth? Do you think we could find it if we dig? Mark Schnitzius schnitzi@eola.cs.ucf.edu Univ. of Central Florida [There is not complete agreement on the details of the afterlife. I think the most common view is that final disposition does not occur until a final judgement, which is still in the future. In the meantime, some believe that people "sleep" until the final resurrection (or because God is above time, pass directly from death to the future time when the resurrection occurs), while others believe that souls have a disembodied, pre-resurrection existence until then. There are probably other alternatives that I'm omitting. The new body is generally conceived of being implemented in a different "technology" than the current one, one which is not mortal. (Paul talks about the mortal being raised to immortality, and Jesus' resurrected body -- which is the first example -- clearly was not subject to the same kind of limitations as ours.) It is assumed that there are enough similarities that people will recognize each other, but I don't think most people claim to know the details. I don't think I'd say it's the same atoms. I'd assume there would be some analog of a physical place, but I wouldn't expect to find it under the earth or up in the sky. I'd suspect that it's in another dimension, outside this physical world, or whatever. But again, we have little in the way of details.
First, off I'd say that the impact if right before your eyes! 8-) That we are even discussing this is a major impact in and of itself. Further, the early church bears testimony to the impact. Of course they knew where it was. Don't forget that Jesus was seen by both the Jews and the Romans as a troublemaker. Pilate was no fool and didn't need the additional headaches of some fishermen stealing Jesus' body to make it appear He had arisen. Since Jesus was buried in the grave of a man well know to the Sanhedrin, to say that they didn't know where He was buried begs the question. Now, you say that you think that the disciples stole the body. But think on this a moment. Would you die to maintain something you KNEW to be a deliberate lie!? If not, then why do you think the disciples would!? Now, I'm not talking about dying for something you firmly believe to be the truth, but unbeknown to you, it is a lie. Many have done this. No, I'm talking about dying, by beheading, stoning, crucifixion, etc., for something you know to be a lie! Thus, you position with regards to the disciples stealing the body seems rather lightweight to me. As for graverobbers, why risk the severe penalties for grave robbing over the body of Jesus? He wasn't buried with great riches. So, again, this is an argument that can be discounted. That leaves you back on square one. What happened to the body!? IHL, Gene -- The opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the Campus Office for Information Technology, or the Experimental Bulletin Board Service. internet: laUNChpad.unc.edu or 152.2.22.80
The above does not tell the proper story of SCSI: SCSI-I: 8-bit asynchronous {~1.5MB/s ave}, synchronous {5MB/s max} transfer base. SCSI-1{faster} this requires a SCSI-2 controller chip and provides SCSI-2 {8-bit to 16-bit} speeds with SCSI-1 controlers. SCSI-2: 4-6MB/s with 10MB/s burst{8-bit}, 8-12MB/s with 20MB/s burst {16-bit}, and 15-20MB/s with 40MB/s burst{32-bit/wide and fast}. 16-bit SCSI can be wide or fast, it depends on how the port is designed{The Quadras will support fast SCSI but not wide when the OS SCSI manager is rewritten since the Quardas use a SCSI-1 {non-wide} port}. The article in PC Mag 4/27/93:29 was talking about SCSI-1 {SCSI-2 uses TEN (10) devices in it native mode, outside its native mode it behaves a lot like SCSI-1 (7 devices, slower through put} From your own figures SCSI-1 is indeed twice ESDI as the article pointed out as for "20% faster then IDE" that seems to be 8-bit SCSI-1 using a SCSI-2 contoler chip {The Mac Quadra uses a SCSI-2 controler chip for its SCSI-1 and gets 6MB/s through put for asynchronous {8-bit} SCSI-1, far in excess of a normal SYNCHRONOUS SCSI-1 output} 120% of 8.3 is 9.96 which is near the burst of a SCSI-1 machine with a SCSI-2 controller chip. The PC world seems to have SCSI-1 and SCSI-2 mixed up. Fact is SCSI-2 controler chips allow near SCSI-2 speeds through a SCSI-1 device {As shown in the Mac Quadra} which skews some of the data of SCSI-1 vs IDE or ESDI test. I agree that the article COULD have stated that the "20% faster then IDE" came off a SCSI-1 device with a SCSI-2 chip. Maybe it was there and the EDITOR killed it because the article was dealing with SCSI-1 NOT SCSI-2 and he did not understand the effect of a SCSI-1 device with a SCSI-2 controller chip. SCSI-1 chips are limited to 5/MB max. SCSI-1 devices with SCSI-2 chips {becoming common} produce up to 10Mb/s in 8-bit mode and 20MB/s in 16-bit mode {the fast version, SCSI-1 ports cannot use wide SCSI}. Of cource the prime piece of wierdness is that SCSI-1 devices HAVE SCSI-2 chips {or more accurately the machine does}. This allows the best of BOTH worlds: high SCSI-2 speeds and cheeper SCSI-1 costs {FULL SCSI-2 hardware (port, electronic controller, etc) is VERY expensive. It ALSO creates a logistic NIGHTMARE as to how fast SCSI-1 goes.
# |> > # |> >It is NOT a "terrorist camp" as you and the Israelis like # |> >to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer # |> >in the streets, women preparing lunch, men playing cards, etc..... # |> >SOME young men, usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of # |> >the Lebanese resistance. Even the inhabitants of the village do not # |> >know who these are, they are secretive about it, but most people often # |> >suspect who they are and what they are up to. These young men are # |> >supported financially by Iran most of the time. They sneak arms and # |> >ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps # |> >for Israeli patrols. Every time an Israeli soldier is killed or injured # |> >by these traps, Israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages # |> >of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians. # |> # |> This a "tried and true" method utilized by guerilla and terrorists groups: # |> to conduct operations in the midst of the local populace, thus forcing the # |> opposing "state" to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or, # |> in order to avoid the deaths of civilians, abandon the search. Certainly the # |> people who use the population for cover are *also* to blaim for dragging the # |> innocent civilians into harm's way. # |> # |> Are you suggesting that, when guerillas use the population for cover, Israel # |> should totally back down? So...the easiest way to get away with attacking # |> another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the other respects # |> innocent lives? # # Tell me Tim, what are these guerillas doing wrong? Assuming that they are using # civilians for cover, are they not killing SOLDIERS in THEIR country? If the # buffer zone is to prevent attacks on Israel, is it not working? Why is it # further neccessary for Israeli guns to pound Lebanese villages? Why not just # kill those who try to infiltrate the buffer zone? You see, there is more to # the shelling of the villages.... it is called RETALIATION... "GETTING BACK" # ..."GETTING EVEN". It doesn't make sense to shell the villages. The least # it shows is a reckless disregard by the Israeli government for the lives of # civilians. Please clarify your standards for rules of engagement. As I understand it, Israelis are at all times and under all circumstances fair targets. Their opponents are legitimate targets only when Mirandized, or some such? I'm sure that this makes perfect sense if you grant *a*priori* that Israelis are the Black Hats, and that therefore killing them is automatically a Good Thing (Go Hezbollah!). The corollary is that the Hezbollah are the White Hats, and that whatever they do is a Good Thing, and the Israelis only prove themselves to be Bad Guys by attacking them. This sounds suspiciously like a hockey fan I know, who cheers when one of the players on His Team uses his stick to permanently rearrange an opponent's face, and curses the ref for penalizing His Side. Of course, when it's different when the roles are reversed.
Piper lived in my town (Williamsport, PA) when he killed himself. It was in the early '60's. He had had more than a few books published by that time, but he was down on his luck financially. Rumor was that he was hunting urban pigeons with birdshot for food. He viewed himself as a resourceful man, and (IMO) decided to check out gracefully if he couldn't support himself. The worst part is that John Campbell, the long-time editor of Astounding/Analog SF magazine had cut a check for Piper's most recent story, and said check was in the mail. If Campbell had known Piper's straits, I'm sure he would have phoned to say hang on. Campbell was like that. I wish it had happened differently. I always enjoyed Piper's stuff.
: I : |> Jim, : |> : |> I always thought that homophobe was only a word used at Act UP : |> rallies, I didn't beleive real people used it. Let's see if we agree : |> on the term's definition. A homophobe is one who actively and : |> militantly attacks homosexuals because he is actually a latent : |> homosexual who uses his hostility to conceal his true orientation. : |> Since everyone who disapproves of or condemns homosexuality is a : |> homophobe (your implication is clear), it must necessarily follow that : |> all men are latent homosexuals or bisexual at the very least. : |> : : Crap crap crap crap crap. A definition of any type of 'phobe comes from : phobia = an irrational fear of. Hence a homophobe (not only in ACT UP meetings, : the word is apparently in general use now. Or perhaps it isn't in the bible? : Wouldst thou prefer if I were to communicate with thou in bilespeak?) : : Does an arachnophobe have an irrational fear of being a spider? Does an : agoraphobe have an irrational fear of being a wide open space? Do you : understand English? : : Obviously someone who has phobia will react to it. They will do their best : to avoid it and if that is not possible they will either strike out or : run away. Or do gaybashings occur because of natural processes? People : who definately have homophobia will either run away from gay people or : cause them (or themselves) violence. : Isn't that what I said ... What are you taking issue with here, your remarks are merely parenthetical to mine and add nothing useful. : [...] : : |> It would seem odd if homosexuality had any evolutionary function : |> (other than limiting population growth) since evolution only occurs : |> when the members of one generation pass along their traits to : |> subsequent generations. Homosexuality is an evolutionary deadend. If I : |> take your usage of the term, homophobe, in the sense you seem to : |> intend, then all men are really homosexual and evolution of our : |> species at least, is going nowhere. : |> : : So *every* time a man has sex with a woman they intend to produce children? : Hmm...no wonder the world is overpopulated. Obviously you keep to the : Monty Python song: "Every sperm is sacred". And if, as *you* say, it has : a purpose as a means to limit population growth then it is, by your own : arguement, natural. Consider the context, I'm talking about an evolutionary function. One of the most basic requirements of evolution is that members of a species procreate, those who don't have no purpose in that context. : : |> Another point is that if the offspring of each generation is to : |> survive, the participation of both parents is necessary - a family must : |> exist, since homosexuals do not reproduce, they cannot constitute a : |> family. Since the majority of humankind is part of a family, : |> homosexuality is an evolutionary abberation, contrary to nature if you : |> will. : |> : : Well if that is true, by your own arguements homosexuals would have : vanished *years* ago due to non-procreation. Also the parent from single : parent families should put the babies out in the cold now, cos they must, : by your arguement, die. By your argument, homosexuality is genetically determined. As to your second point, you prove again that you have no idea what context means. I am talking about evolution, the preservation of the species, the fundamental premise of the whole process. : : |> But it gets worse. Since the overwhelming majority of people actually : |> -prefer- a heterosexual relationship, homosexuality is a social : |> abberation as well. The homosexual eschews the biological imperative : |> to reproduce and then the social imperative to form and participate in : |> the most fundamental social element, the family. But wait, there's : |> more. : |> : : Read the above. I expect you to have at least ten children by now, with : the family growing. These days sex is less to do with procreation (admittedly : without it there would be no-one) but more to do with pleasure. In pre-pill : and pre-condom days, if you had sex there was the chance of producing children. : These days is just ain't true! People can decide whether or not to have : children and when. Soon they will be able to choose it's sex &c (but that's : another arguement...) so it's more of a "lifestyle" decision. Again by : your arguement, since homosexuals can not (or choose not) to reproduce they must : be akin to people who decide to have sex but not children. Both are : as "unnatural" as each other. Yet another non-sequitur. Sex is an evolutionary function that exists for procreation, that it is also recreation is incidental. That homosexuals don't procreate means that sex is -only- recreation and nothing more; they serve no -evolutionary- purpose. : : |> Since homosexuals have come out the closet and have convinced some : |> policy makers that they have civil rights, they are now claiming that : |> their sexuality is a preference, a life-style, an orientation, a : |> choice that should be protected by law. Now if homosexuality is a mere : |> choice and if it is both contrary to nature and anti-social, then it : |> is a perverse choice; they have even less credibility than before they : |> became prominent. : |> : : People are people are people. Who are you to tell anyone else how to live : their life? Are you god(tm)? If so, fancy a date? Here's pretty obvious dodge, do you really think you've said anything or do you just feel obligated to respond to every statement? I am not telling anyone anything, I am demonstrating that there are arguments against the practice of homosexuality (providing it's a merely an alternate lifestlye) that are not homophobic, that one can reasonably call it perverse in a context even a atheist can understand. I realize of course that this comes dangerously close to establishing a value, and that atheists are compelled to object on that basis, but if you are to be consistent, you have no case in this regard. : : |> To characterize any opposition to homosexuality as homophobic is to : |> ignore some very compelling arguments against the legitimization of : |> the homosexual "life-style". But since the charge is only intended to : |> intimidate, it's really just demogoguery and not to be taken : |> seriously. Fact is, Jim, there are far more persuasive arguments for : |> suppressing homosexuality than those given, but consider this a start. : |> : : Again crap. All your arguments are based on outdated ideals. Likewise the : bible. Would any honest Christian condemn the ten generations spawned by : a "bastard" to eternal damnation? Or someone who crushes his penis (either : accidently or not..!). Both are in Deuteronomy. I'm sure your comment pertains to something, but you've disguised it so well I can't see what. Where did I mention ideals, out-dated or otherwise? Your arguments are very reactionary; do you have anything at all to contribute? : : |> As to why homosexuals should be excluded from participation in : |> scouting, the reasons are the same as those used to restrict them from : |> teaching; by their own logic, homosexuals are deviates, social and : |> biological. Since any adult is a role model for a child, it is : |> incumbent on the parent to ensure that the child be isolated from : |> those who would do the child harm. In this case, harm means primarily : |> social, though that could be extended easily enough. : |> : |> : : You show me *anyone* who has sex in a way that everyone would describe as : normal, and will take of my hat (Puma baseball cap) to you. "One man's meat : is another man's poison"! : What has this got to do with anything? Would you pick a single point that you find offensive and explain your objections, I would really like to believe that you can discuss this issue intelligibly.
It is usually possible to reach people at IKI (Institute for Space Research) in Moscow by writing to IKIMAIL@esoc1.bitnet This is a machine at ESA in Darmstadt, Germany; IKI has a dedicated phone line to this machine and someone there logs in regularly to retrieve mail. In addition, there are several user accounts belonging to Russian scientific institutions on <user>@sovam.com which is a commercial enterprise based in San Francisco that provides email services to the former USSR. For example, fian@sovam.com is the "PHysics Institute of the Academy of Sciences" (initials transliterated from Russian, of course). These connections cost the Russians real dollars, even for *received* messages, so please don't send anything voluminous or frivilous. ===================================================================== Larry R. D'Addario National Radio Astronomy Observatory
Your statement is a common misconception, but it just isn't true. In the German Weimar system, the Chancellor was not necessarily the leader of the largest Reichstag party; the Chancellor was appointed by the President and generally was the leader of a coalition of parties who could form an effective majority in the Reichstag. Beyond that, the implication that Hitler rose to the Chancellorship because a majority of Germans wanted Nazi rule is false as well. Before President Hindenburg appointed Hitler Chancellor in January 1933, the German people did not show a particular desire to be led either by Hitler or by the Nazi party. These are the results of the March 1932 election for President, the closest Hitler ever came to direct election: Hindenburg 49.6%, Hitler 30.1%, Thaelmann 13.2%, Duesterberg 6.8%. In the runoff election in April the results were: Hindenburg 53%, Hitler 36.8%, Thaelmann 10.2%. So we can see that Hitler personally was supported by only about a third of German voters. Similarly, the Nazi party never received more than 37% of the vote in Reichstag elections. That occurred in July 1932. In the November 1932 election the Nazis *lost* two million votes and 34 seats, down from 230 to 196 out of the 608 in the Reichstag. Comparitively, the Socialists had 121 and the Communists 100. The Communists had gained 11 seats, and the German National party, which had supported the previous government, had picked up a million of the Nazis' lost votes to gain 15 seats (up to 52). I think the other large party was the Catholic Center party (I don't know how many seats they had but I think they were declining), and there were numerous other small parties. Thus the Nazi vote was on the decline at the time Hitler was appointed Chancellor. What brought Hitler to power was *not* the demand of the German people for Hitler or the Nazis to run things, but the inability of the other parties to put their differences behind them in favor of forming an effective government for the country. Germany did not have an enduring democratic tradition, and their parliamentary system lacked effective center parties that favored the interests of the majority of the population. Instead what they had was a number of small parties who were unable to put aside their own specific objectives in order to combine against the Nazis, who were out to end the democratic process. In fact, part of the problem was that some of the other parties with substantial representation, like the Communists, were also out to end the democratic process, but with different results in mind, and generally didn't mind seeing parliamentary democracy go under. Germany had already had a non-Nazi Chancellor with a majority coalition for five months while the Nazis had been the largest Reichstag party, and there certainly was no danger of a revolution in favor of the Nazis. If anything the Nazis were starting to get desperate because they had failed to get enough support to make Hitler President and their popular vote had begun to decline. Hitler was not Hindenburg's first choice to be Chancellor, not even his second choice. First, von Papen had been Chancellor since June 1932. After the November election when the Nazis *lost* seats, Hindenburg first prevailed on von Papen to remain as Chancellor. But there were intrigues behind his back and support for him was lacking. So then Hindenburg turned to von Schleicher, who became Chancellor for two months. Eventually he too was unable to hold together a working coalition of parties to oppose the Nazis, who refused to participate in any government that was not led by a Nazi Chancellor. Some of the Nazi leadership, particularly Gregor Strasser who was the #2 man in the party at the time, wanted to participate in a coalition government. But others, knowing the party's support was waning, figured that their best hope to gain power lay in undermining the democratic process. Nevertheless, the country was governed for seven months by Chancellors who were not Nazis, even though the Nazis were the largest Reichstag party. The failure of these men to achieve a working coalition was due to the inability of their coalition parties to work together. Here's how William Shirer puts it in _The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich_: The cardinal error of the Germans who opposed Nazism was their failure to unite against it. At the crest of their popular strength, in July 1932, the National Socialists had attained but 37 percent of the vote. But the 63 percent of the German people who expressed their opposition to Hitler were much too divided and shortsighted to combine against a common danger which they must have known would overwhelm them unless they united, however temporarily, to stamp it out. True, the German people supported Hitler after he became Chancellor. But that doesn't change the fact that there was not overwhelming support for him *before* he was in power. The German people were not crying out for Hitler to take over, no matter how bad economic conditions were. The leftist parties (Socialists/Communists) probably had more support in total than the Nazis. Hitler used the fact that others were passively or actively willing to see the government paralyzed as a means to taking it over.
FM-2 has been sold. Following remains:
: : Has anyone found a fix for the following problem? : : Client Software: SunOs 4.1.1, X11R5 : Server Hardware: Sun IPC : Server Software: SunOs 4.1.1, Open Windows 3.0 (w/ patch 100444-37) : : A Motif 1.2.2 application will periodically hang when run against the : OpenWindows 3.0 server (xnews). The pulldown is displayed but then no : button actions have any effect. Sometimes pressing <Return> will : unstick the application but not usually. It looks like the pulldown is : grabbing the focus and never letting go. Other windows on the display : continue to get updated so the server isn't hanging. If I log in from : another terminal and kill the Motif application then everything gets : back to normal. The same application when run against other X servers : (including MIT X11R5 Xsun, DecWindows, Tektronix X terminal) has no : problems. This is obviously a OpenWindows problem but I need a : work-around since most of our customers are OpenWindows users. I have seen the same problem using a SPARCStation 10, Solaris 2.1, OW 3.1. In my case, it happens far more often than "periodically".
It wasn't especially prominent, as I recall. However, quite possibly it's no longer on display; NASM, like most museums, has much more stuff than it can display at once, and does rotate the displays occasionally.
In an earlier article, I explained that what many people find arrogant about Christians is that some Christians profess absolute certianty about their beliefs and doctrines. That is, many Christians insist that they CANNOT have made any mistakes when discovering their beliefs, which amounts to saying that they are infallible. Impicitly claiming to be infallible is pretty arrogant, most of us will probably agree. In short, the problem is that no matter how good your sources are, if any part of your doctrines or beliefs rest on your own thinking and reasoning, then those doctrines are suspect. So long as your own brain is involved, there is a possibility for error. I summarised the problem by writing "There is no way out of the loop." Someone called `REXLEX' has claimed that there IS a way out of the loop, but he did not bother to explain what it was, preferring instead to paraphrase Sartre, ramble about Wittgenstein, and say that the conclusion of my argument leads to relativism. As I have explained to him before, you cannot reject an argument as false because you dislike where it leads: the facts do not change just because However, as any first-year philosophy student can explain, what `REXLEX' has written does not constitute a refutation. All he has said is that he does not like what I wrote -- he has done nothing at all to dispute it. * There were two sentences in `REXLEX's post that seemed relevant to the point at hand: I do not dispute that some truths can be verified through experience. I have, for example, direct experience of adding numbers. I don't claim to be infallible at it -- in fact I remember doing sums incorrectly -- but I do claim that I have direct experience of reasoning about numbers. However, once we go past experiencing things and start reasoning about them, we are on much shakier ground. That was the point of the earlier article. Human brains are infested with sin, and they can only be trusted in very limited circumstances. But how far does that get you? Once God's revelation stops, and your own reasoning begins, possibility for error appears. For example, let's suppose that our modern Bible translations include a perfect rendering of Jesus words at the Last Supper, and that Jesus said, exactly, "This is my body." We'll presume that what he said was totally without error and absolutely true. What can we be certain of? Not much. At the moment he stops speaking, and people start interpreting, the possibility of error appears. Did he mean that literally or not? We do not have any record that he elaborated on the words. Was he thinking of Tran- or Con- substatiation? He didn't say. We interpret this passage using our brains; we think and reason and draw conclusions. But we know that our brains are not perfect: our thinking often leads us wrong. (This is something that most of us have direct experience of. 8-) Why should anyone believe that his reasoning -- which he knows to be fallible -- can lead him to perfect conclusions? So, given the assumptions in this example, what we can be certain of is that Jesus said "This is my body." Beyond that, once we start making up doctrines and using our brains to reason about what Christ revealed, we get into trouble. Unless you are infallible, there are very few things you can be certain of. To the extent that doctrines rely on fallible human thinking, they cannot be certain. That is the problem of seeming arrogant. The non-Christians around us know that human beings make mistakes, just as surely as we know it. They do not believe we are infallible, any more than we do. When Christians speak as if they believe their own reasoning can never lead them astray -- when we implicitly claim that we are infallible -- the non- Christians around us rarely believe that implicit claim. Witnessing is hardly going to work when the person you are talking to believes that you are either too foolish to recognise your own limits, or intentionally trying to cover them up. I think it would be far better to say what things we are certain of and what things we are only "very confident" of. For example, we might say that we know our sin, for recognising sin is something we directly experience. But other things, whether based on reasoning from Scripture or extra-Biblical thinking, should not be labled as infallible: we should say that we are very confident of them, and be ready to explain our reasoning. But, so far as I am aware, none of us is infallible -- speaking or acting as if our thinking is flawless is ridiculous. * `REXLEX' suggested that people read _He is There and He is Not Silent_, by Francis Schaeffer. I didn't think very highly of it, but I think that Mr Schaeffer is grossly overrated by many Evangelical Christians. Somebody else might like it, though, so don't let my opinion stop you from reading it. If someone is interested in my opinion, I'd suggest _On Certainty_, by Ludwig Wittgenstein.
Yo! Watch the attributions--I didn't say that! Again, this isn't an appropriate forum for discussions on whether you should shoot someone for property damage/vandalism/theft, but every responsible gun owner realizes that there are limits, and the punishment must fit the crime. I mean, think about it--is a (really) harmless prank worth killing over? As I said, the situation described (punks setting off alarms and taunting people to come out) could turn very ugly very quickly, and it is worth being prepared when your life is potentially on the line. James
[...] Wait a minute, Doug. I know you are better informed than that. The US has never invaded Nicaragua (as far as I know). We liberated Grenada from the Cubans to protect US citizens there and to prevent the completion of a strategic air strip. Panama we invaded, true (twice this century). Vietnam? We were invited in by the government of S. Vietnam. (I guess we "invaded" Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War, eh?) Mexico? We have invaded Mexico 2 or 3 times, once this century, but there were no missiles for anyone to shoot over here at that time. Hawaii? We liberated it from Spain. So if you mean by the word "invaded" some sort of military action where we cross someone's border, you are right 5 out of 6. But normally "invaded" carries a connotation of attacking an autonomous nation. (If some nation "invades" the U.S. Virgin Islands, would they be invading the Virgin Islands or the U.S.?) So from this point of view, your score falls to 2 out of 6 (Mexico, Panama). [...] No, it's someone who believes in "peace-at-all-costs". In other words, a person who would have supported giving Hitler not only Austria and Czechoslakia, but Poland too if it could have averted the War. And one who would allow Hitler to wipe all *all* Jews, slavs, and political dissidents in areas he controlled as long as he left the rest of us alone. "Is it supposed to be bad to be a peace-nik," you ask? Well, it depends on what your values are. If you value life over liberty, peace over freedom, then I guess not. But if liberty and freedom mean more to you than life itself; if you'd rather die fighting for liberty than live under a tyrant's heel, then yes, it's "bad" to be a peace-nik. The problem with most peace-niks it they consider those of us who are not like them to be "bad" and "unconscionable". I would not have any argument or problem with a peace-nik if they held to their ideals and stayed out of all conflicts or issues, especially those dealing with the national defense. But no, they are not willing to allow us to legitimately hold a different point-of-view. They militate and many times resort to violence all in the name of peace. (What rank hypocrisy!) All to stop we "warmongers" who are willing to stand up and defend our freedoms against tyrants, and who realize that to do so requires a strong national defense. Time to get off the soapbox now. :) [...] Regards,
========== 20" COLOR TV ============= San Diego Mesa College Area Emerson M20R w/ "high-tech" square screen BEST PRICE YOU features: timer/sleep feature for auto- shut on/off CAN FIND FOR A fully cable ready w/ all coaxial video audio jacks 20-INCH COLOR TV MTS (multichannel sound jack) for processing stereo or bilingual channels $ 170.00 FIRM 19 key remote includes review, recall, sleep features ============================================== tel 619-278-8779 please reply to lcornel@eis.calstate.edu for fastest response! -Louis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Joe, just 'cause you say they aren't subject to interpretation doesn't necesarily make it so. That's *your* *interpretation* of these texts. 2 Peter 1:20-21 But know this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. The study notes in my Bible offer three possible meanings for verse 20. Apparantly it's not as clear to Charles Ryrie as it is to you. 2 Timothy 3:16-17 All Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness; that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Galations 1:11-12 For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but I receieved it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. When I read these passages, it was not immediately clear to me what every phrase meant. I had stop and think about the possible connotations of words, what the intent of the author may have been, wonder if the translator used the correct English word to convey the same meaning: I had to interpret. If you want to believe that your are not interpreting Scripture as you read, there's probably nothing I can say to change your mind. But I think it's naive to think that our culture, experiences, education, do not affect everything we read. In college, I took an entire course in Biblical interpretation. Go to any Christian bookstore, there are scores of books on interpreting and understanding Scripture. If interpretation is unnecessary, there are an awful lot of misguided Christians out there wasting a lot of time and energy on it.
If you look through this newsgroup, you should be able to find Clinton's proposed "Wiretapping" Initiative for our computer networks and telephone systems. This 'initiative" has been up before Congress for at least the past 6 months, in the guise of the "FBI Wiretapping" bill. I strongly urge you to begin considering your future. I strongly urge you to get your application for a passport in the mail soon.
I was wrong! I guess they are closer to $800 new! I will probably still sell them for the above implied $300 obo. Email me if you want more specifics. This is a really attractive set of books, kind of a Bible encyclopedia set. Also email me if you know more about these books or post the information here.
Up to 60 microamperes = on hook Over something like 10 mA = off hook In between = defective line, and the phone company comes looking for leaky insulation.
$ The biggest hurdle for automatics (IMHO) is not shifting speed $ per se, but rather the transmission's reaction speed when you $ try to force it to shift manually. $ [...] I rented an Oldsmobile Achieva (is that a yuppie name or what?) and a Nissan Stanza. They both had automatics. I'm a manual transmission bigot but I have to admit that the transmissions on these cars were better shifters than I am. And yes, they responded very quickly to kickdown requests. The Nissan had a tachometer so I was able to figure out which gear I was in. (The Olds may have also, but I don't remember.) I believe it shifted all the way down to second at about 50 mph when my foot told it, "No I really want to accelerate quickly." I would still prefer a manual, but I won't delude myself into thinking that I can out-accelerate a modern automatic. And I'm very smooth at shifting but certainly not as good as an automatic.
Sure nails can be cruel. I'd imagine nails in your eyes would be *very* painful. But, this does not imply that a painless death is cruel, which is what you are supposed to be trying to show.
Let me try sending this message again, I botched up the margins the first time; *sorry* 'bout that :) Does anyone out there know of any products using Motorola's Neuron(r) chips MC143150 or MC143120. If so, what are they and are they utilizing Standard Network Variable Types (SNVT)? ________________________________________________________________________
Actually, Hiten wasn't originally intended to go into lunar orbit at all, so it indeed didn't have much fuel on hand. The lunar-orbit mission was an afterthought, after Hagoromo (a tiny subsatellite deployed by Hiten during a lunar flyby) had a transmitter failure and its proper insertion into lunar orbit couldn't be positively confirmed. It should be noted that the technique does have disadvantages. It takes a long time, and you end up with a relatively inconvenient lunar orbit. If you want something useful like a low circular polar orbit, you do have to plan to expend a certain amount of fuel, although it is reduced from what you'd need for the brute-force approach.
From: Center for Policy Research <cpr> Subject: Ten questions about Israel Ten questions to Israelis ------------------------- I would be thankful if any of you who live in Israel could help to provide accurate answers to the following specific questions. These are indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by people around me. 1. Is it true that the Israeli authorities don't recognize Israeli nationality ? And that ID cards, which Israeli citizens must carry at all times, identify people as Jews or Arabs, not as Israelis ? 2. Is it true that the State of Israel has no fixed borders and that Israeli governments from 1948 until today have refused to state where the ultimate borders of the State of Israel should be ? 3. Is it true that Israeli stocks nuclear weapons ? If so, could you provide any evidence ? 4. Is it true that in Israeli prisons there are a number of individuals which were tried in secret and for which their identities, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are state secrets ? 5. Is it true that Jews who reside in the occupied territories are subject to different laws than non-Jews? 6. Is it true that Jews who left Palestine in the war 1947/48 to avoid the war were automatically allowed to return, while their Christian neighbors who did the same were not allowed to return ? 7. Is it true that Israel's Prime Minister, Y. Rabin, signed an order for ethnical cleansing in 1948, as is done today in Bosnia-Herzegovina ? 8. Is it true that Israeli Arab citizens are not admitted as members in kibbutzim? 9. Is it true that Israeli law attempts to discourage marriages between Jews and non-Jews ? 10. Is it true that Hotel Hilton in Tel Aviv is built on the site of a muslim cemetery ? Thanks,
We are in the process of evaluating X-terminals. This includes running XRemote over a serial line. I would like to run some X benchmarks to determine comparative performance. Has anyone written any such benchmarks, or know of any useful programs on the net ? I heard of a program called "Xstone", but I couldn't locate it using archie. Please reply to afielden@mlsma.att.com, as I don't get to read this newsgroup much. Thanks in advance for any help.
I hate to admit this but there does seem to be some sort of twisted logic to this approach. It's the bikers against the world and the dogs are just another worthless adversary. So remember to wear at least calf height leather boots, ( in case the dog gets lucky and sinks his teeth into your attacking foot) and go for the gusto, If that dog doesn't retreat from the street with his tail between his legs next time you see it then you really haven't done your bit for all your fellow bikers. Sorry I can't go this far, A dog against and armored cage just doesn't seem like a fair fight. after all it is a dog eat dog world
And my number 1: 1. The spectacle of the religious fervour of the CR "true believers".
Can someone please remind me who said a well known quotation? He was sitting atop a rocket awaiting liftoff and afterwards, in answer to the question what he had been thinking about, said (approximately) "half a million components, each has to work perfectly, each supplied by the lowest bidder....." Attribution and correction of the quote would be much appreciated.
> And the same goes for other cultural practices. The festival > of Easter may possibly have some historical association with > some pagan festival, but *today* there are, as far as I know, > no Christians who *intend* to honor any kind of "pagan > goddess" by celebrating Easter.
According to _The Complete Guide To Specialty Cars_, 7th Edition, from Crown Publishing, it's the VW Kubelwagen (w/ 2 dots over the 'u'). The company is: Wolfkam P.O. Box 1608, Vika 0119 Oslo 1, Norway 011-47-30-26601 voice line 011-47-2-166138 FAX line An excerpt from the blurb: ...This fine Kubel clone from Wolfkam is a very close copy of the original, and offers the same all-weather and cross-country capabilities as its WWII forebears. The robust fiberglass body kit is very complete, and includes all the hardware you will need, except for your own VW donor car. The phone number [...] is the entire AT&T dialing sequence; call and ask for Karl Torum, or send $5 cash or _International Money Order_ for a complete literature package. George. P.S., I'd be happy to share what info I have on other kit cars and kit car manufacturers.
duh, why not just chop out the .sig? bob vesterman. ps: hey kids, take all those pictures of dead presidents out of your parents' wallets and mail them to:
[STUFF DELETED] ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ A friend who owns a company that builds clones shared with me the fact that the PCI chipset is NOT expensive -- how about $12? Many money-hungry-clone makers, no doubt, will attempt to price the boards high only because it's new technology. Lance Hartmann (lance%hartmann.austin.ibm.com@ibmpa.awdpa.ibm.com) Yes, that IS a '%' (percent sign) in my network address.
C'mon, you still haven't corrected yourself, 'wieneramus'. In April 1942, Hitler was preparing for the invasion of the Caucasus. A number of Nazi Armenian leaders began submitting plans to German officials in spring and summer 1942. One of them was Souren Begzadian Paikhar, son of a former ambassador of the Armenian Republic in Baku. Paikhar wrote a letter to Hitler, asking for German support to his Armenian national socialist movement Hossank and suggesting the creation of an Armenian SS formation in order "to educate the youth of liberated Armenia according to the spirit of the Nazi ideas." He wanted to unite the Armenians of the already occupied territories of the USSR in his movement and with them conquer historic Turkish homeland. Paikhar was confined to serving the Nazis in Goebbels Propaganda ministry as a speaker for Armenian- and French-language radio broadcastings.[1] The Armenian-language broadcastings were produced by yet another Nazi Armenian Viguen Chanth.[2] [1] Patrick von zur Muhlen (Muehlen), p. 106. [2] Enno Meyer, A. J. Berkian, 'Zwischen Rhein und Arax, 900 Jahre Deutsch-Armenische beziehungen,' (Heinz Holzberg Verlag-Oldenburg 1988), pp. 124 and 129. The establishment of Armenian units in the German army was favored by General Dro (the Butcher). He played an important role in the establishment of the Armenian 'legions' without assuming any official position. His views were represented by his men in the respective organs. An interesting meeting took place between Dro and Reichsfuehrer-SS Heinrich Himmler toward the end of 1942. Dro discussed matters of collaboration with Himmler and after a long conversation, asked if he could visit POW camp close to Berlin. Himmler provided Dro with his private car.[1] A minor problem was that some of the Soviet nationals were not 'Aryans' but 'subhumans' according to the official Nazi philosophy. As such, they were subject to German racism. However, Armenians were the least threatened and indeed most privileged. In August 1933, Armenians had been recognized as Aryans by the Bureau of Racial Investigation in the Ministry for Domestic Affairs. [1] Meyer, Berkian, ibid., pp. 112-113. Need I go on? Serdar Argic
Turkish president Turgur Ozal has passed away today after a heart attack in Ankara at 11:00 am GMT . Mr. Ozal was 66 years old.
} >} [Stuff about upated inning scores deleted.] } >at just that exact time to see the message. even results after the game } >is over are not necessary, thanks to Mr. Hernandez who posts daily } >standings and results here every day. } } Am I supposed to take that as a compliment or a put down? Just wondering. it was meant entirely, 100%, as a compliment. } I do this as a service to the entire baseball world on USENET, especially } for those in the East Coast who can't get final scores for West Coast games } in their newspapers or late TV newscasts. This is helpful to fans in other } countries who either receive only weekly scores or updates by the week. Also, } many have requested for this kind of service previously but it was only } available through BBS's or some pay news services. By the way, mine is free } of charge and has no copyright restrictions. i was not trying to criticize your service at all. in fact, i was trying to encourage others to use it. i don't personally use it, but i'm sure others do, and that was my point in posting--there is no need for individuals to duplicate, in an ad hoc fashion, what you have already organized. } >if you want to send updates and scores, set up a private mailing list } >and use that. } } Remember I only post final scores and the updated standings once a day to the } rec.sport.baseball newsgroup. Other than that, everything is done through } private e-mail. Currently, there are 986 people on my mailing list that } branches off into other mailing lists available for many others. And the list } grows by an average of 35 people a day. having one person, such as yourself, who does it, is a great idea. having 100 do it is not. that's all. keep up the good work, Joseph.
Find an encyclopedia. Volume H. Now look up Hitler, Adolf. He had many more people than just Germans enamoured with him. P.
Yes, victims exist. There are a staggering number of victims in the world and more each day. I think on balance, intervention would create more victims, including American ones. Since the first responsibility of the US government is to protect Americans, I think they serve that role best by staying away from Bosnia and other regional conflicts. Of course not. The Jews were not trying to carve a territory out of Germany either, and except for small-scale resistance and a few larger uprisings, did not have an army or a government. I see the pattern of atrocities as a fairly often practiced tactic of a colonizing power - driving away and/or eliminating the population of an area they want to control. The US tried basically that in Vietnam, the Iraqis in Kuwait, the Israelis in Palestine, South Africa, etc, etc, etc. It sucks, it's ugly, and it's saddening. But it is not genocide. It is not my impression that the Serbs want to eliminate every Muslim in Yugoslavia. I still say the Bosnians are getting their asses kicked; they should surrender and evacuate the areas they can't hold. I am a staunch Republican, BTW. The irony of arguing against military intervention with arguments based on Vietnam has not escaped me. I was opposed to US intervention in Somalia for the same reasons, although clearly it was not nearly as risky. Well, one thing you have to remember is, the press likes a good story. Good for business, don't you know. And BTW, not "everyone" wants to help the side that is less like us. I never said the two sides were morally equivalent, I said neither one is innocent. There are just too many good reasons to stay away: 1) The Europeans are perfectly able to deal with this dispute on their borders in any way we do it. Put another way, we have no assistance to offer the Europeans which they do not already possess themselves. It is not good to promote the idea in anyone's mind that the United States is responsible for cleaning up every bloody mess in the world. 2) Clinton is not the man to lead this country into a military adventure. Full stop.
In pure speculation, I would guess cautions based on hazardous pre-launch ops would qualify. Something like "Caution: SRBs have just been armed."
OY] Henrik (?), OY] Your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. I'm not OY] going to spend time to review with you the recent history of Cyprus. Good !! Go back to your references and read it over and over ... OY] If you are really interested, I can provide you with a number of references OY] on the issue. Just send me EMail for that. You think I am that STUPID to ask you for REFERENCES ! NOT ! I have many GREEK friends that I could ask for the INFO if I needed. I have already read many articles and DO NOT need your help. Boy, how generous !! OY] Relax! You're swinging fists into open air... I was *agreeing* with you, OY] assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state! You may OY] not be very much used to it, to be agreed with - that is, but take it more OY] easily. !:-) Believe me, I am so relaxed ... henrik] However, I hope that the Armenians WILL force a TURKISH airplane henrik] to LAND for purposes of SEARCHING for ARMS similar to the one [OY] No, Henrik, believe me: You don't hope that. IF Armenia is goint to do that, then so be it. henrik] that happened last SUMMER. Turkey searched an AMERICAN plane henrik] (carrying humanitarian aid) bound to ARMENIA. OY] Was that after or before one French plane changed its route to avoid OY] inspection???
[Stuff deleted] Will, there has been a lot of discussion going on about this over in s.r.c.b-s. I will make the case here though and try to help you out: 8 For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: 9 Not of works, lest any man should boast. (Ephesians 2:8-9). Yes, it is by God's grace and our faith that we are saved. We are not saved by what we do. However, 15 If ye love me, keep my commandments. (John 14:15). Keeping Christ's commandments is a "work" per se, and a demonstration of our love for him. Also, 6 He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. 7 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground? 8 And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it: 9 And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. (Luke 13:6-9). Again, 16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. (John 15:16). It is clear from these verses that we are called to bring forth fruit. What is that fruit. Well, Paul speaks of the fruit of the spirit being love, joy, peace, patience, etc. All of these are things that are manifest in the actions that we carry out. If a person claims to believe in Jesus Christ, but does not do the things Christ commanded, I dare say, that they really don't have any faith. Asking which is more important, faith or works, is like asking which blade on a pair of scissors is most important or like asking which leg of your pants is more important. Good works should come out of and be a result of our faith. To have faith, true faith in Christ requires you to do what he commands. The parable above speaks allegorically of a person who does bear no fruit. Christs commands are actions, and if we don't do those actions and produce fruit, then we shall be uprooted just like the tree. It is a dead and useless faith which has no action behind it. Actions prove our faith and show the genuineness of it. I can sit and talk for days about the fact that I have so much faith in my ability to jump off a building and not hit the ground. In other words, I can sit and tell you all day long that I have faith in my ability to fly. I really don't have that faith though unless I am willing to jump off the roof and take the test. Words and talk mean nothing. I could go on and give more scriptures and if people want me to I will, but this should be sufficient. Hope it helped. Jon ---------------- sig file broken.... please try later...
I won't argue too much about anything. I am probably one of those that think that we can't have enough safety on the roads. I would gladly sacrifice distractions (as you call it), than someone having trouble seeing danger earlier. One saved life justifies more than my lifetime of "distractions" for me. Problem is that, I may just kill the guy. I agree that I would be at fault, and I will have my license revoked, why, I might even go to the gas chamber. But the fact still remains that the guy is dead. Someone died because I was too stingy to put on my lights. The ratio of the probability of fallen trees/rocks on the roads to oncoming traffic is too low to even be considered. The difference is also working on what we *know* could happen, to what *might* happen. Compared to the number of gallons of gas consumed by those 200 million cars, it is miniscule! Whatever..... 'tis a pity I have to share the same roads with a person not concerned with safety. -S ssave@ole.cdac.com
Just to address this one point, what about the two Katyusha rocket attacks made within Lebanon, for which Fatah claimed responsibility. I didn't realize that one can use Katyushas while onr is disarmed. Also, Page 8 of today's New York Times, Faisal Saleh, a high ranking Fatah official, and his 9 month old son were gunned down in Beirut by members of Abu Nidal. There have been 46 assasination attempts in 1993 alone in the fued between these two factions, resulting in 11 deaths.
Where do I find the Athena Widgets that are needed for xtdm-2.4.8
And we all know what an unbiased source the NYT is when it comes to things concerning Israel. Neither the Times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to recognize the statement that these "private funds" were all tax exmpt. In otherwords, American taxpayers put up at least 30% of the money. And finalyy, how does "Federal land" mitigate the offensiveness of this alien monument dedicated to perpetuating pitty and the continual flow of tax money to a foreign entity?
I would like to sell my Logitech Hand-held 256 Gray Scale Scanner. I originally bought it as a toy and have no practical use for it. Hardly ever used it. Package includes: -board -Scan-Mate software -Ansel Image Editing software -All original manuals, box, etc. Originally bought for $350 in Jan '92. Selling for $150.
-- I would like to be able to detect the angular position (low accuracy) of an IR emitting source at a distance of about 100 meters (more is better) in daylight. The IR source could be emitting a signature; I'm leaning toward 30 KHz square wave with 50% duty cycle. I am considering the use of a quadrant detector from Centronic Inc. to give information to a pan/tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the angles. For the source I am considering wazing the heck out of an IR LED(s), possibly an Optek OP290 or Motorola MLED81. Wazing would mean at least 1 Amp current pulses. At this current the duty cycle of the LED drops to 10% and I would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50% required. Has anyone done something like this?
Just wondering. A friend and I were talking the other day, and we were (for some reason) trying to come up with names of Jewish baseball players, past and present. We weren't able to come up with much, except for Sandy Koufax, (somebody) Stankowitz, and maybe John Lowenstein. Can anyone come up with any more. I know it sounds pretty lame to be racking our brains over this, but humor us. Thanks for your help.
I started a similar thread about a month ago, and got many replies. The summary: CTX 14": Nasty, low quality. Avoid. CTX 15" Proscan: Not as good as some other makes; however, cheap. Main problem seems poor quality control. Some reported pincushioning (the problem I had), others poor focus, etc, etc. I complained about mine and it was 're-tuned' (I dodn't even pay shipping) and returned to me in 2 days. It's now clear, well-focussed and has no pincushioning or barrel distortion at all. I'm very happy with it, and the digital controls and mode memory are nice. Certainly, a Trinitron (say) would be much nicer, but that's well out of my price range. Conclusion: If you're on a budget, get one and be prepared to send it back if it's not perfect. It probably won't be when you get it, but has good potential.
Yah. So? He certainly didn't earn his last one. *HOW* many games did he blow in the World Series? All of the ones he started? Oh, yes. Definitely. Therefore Morris is better than Clemens. Don't give me that shit. If Boston had Alomar, Olerud, Henke, and Ward while Toronto had Rivera, Jack Clark, Jeff Reardon, things would have looked a little different last fall. Give credit where credit is due. This lavishing of praise on Morris makes me sick. I'm willing to bet they don't finish sixth. I'm also willing to bet they don't finish first. And if you give me 3-2 odds, I'm willing to bet that they finish ahead of the Blue Jays.
..continuing on my build problems, I got stuck here build xterm... gcc -fpcc-struct-return -o xterm main.o input.o charproc.o cursor.o util.o tabs.o screen.o scrollbar.o button.o Tekproc.o misc.o VTPrsTbl.o TekPrsTbl.o data.o menu.o -O2 -R/usr/wgep/X11R5.sos5/lib${LD_RUN_PATH+\:$LD_RUN_PATH} -L../.././lib/Xaw -lXaw -L../.././lib/Xmu -lXmu -L../.././lib/Xt -lXt -L../.././extensions/lib -lXext -L../.././lib/X -lX11 -L/usr/wgep/X11R5.sos5/lib -lsocket -lnsl -ltermcap Undefined first referenced symbol in file index /usr/ucblib/libtermcap.a(termcap.o) rindex /usr/ucblib/libtermcap.a(termcap.o) ld: fatal: Symbol referencing errors. No output written to xterm *** Error code 1 make: Fatal error: Command failed for target `xterm' Any clues for help?
Usually one or two teams changes their logo or a minor uniform change per season, but the past few seasons have been incredible. Any thoughts on the new (old) Reds uniforms. I remember seeing a Pete Rose rookie card, and unless I miss my guess he was wearing the exact same duds. The Mets (HOW ABOUT DOC'S PERFORMANCE TODAY?!!!!!) have reinserted the Mets patch on the shoulder, and changed the Mets insgnia on the front of the jersey. To my knowledge it is the first time that has been changed since 1962, and it reminds me a little of the Dodger logo. Many teams have opted for a return to a previous style of uniform, or at least uniforms that look more traditional. (Phillies, Reds, Expos, White Sox, Padres, etc.) and the once bright colors have been altered to gray. The trend has also seen the newer baseball fields resembling the parks of the early years, as opposed to the cookie-cutter saucer stadiums construcrted throughout the sixties. With salaries now reaching unbelievable highs, no one in the comissioner's office, and inter-league play on the horizon, it's nice to see that baseball at least looks like it was meant to be.
I am looking for Ultima V for the IBM, I would like the entire package (meaning I need more than just the game, I would like the Docs also) Since it is an old game I do not want to pay a lot of money. If you are interested in selling this game please respond to this message.
: >> : >I'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons, but I would ask you if : >you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your : >alarm? I can think of worse things in the world. Glad you got out of there : >before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. : I think people have a right to kill to defend their property. Why not? Be honest: do you really care more about scum than about your car?
What about the common joystick found in all computer shops?
[I am posting this for a friend whose news service is "fubared as usual". I will forward replies to him, or if you want to try to reply directly, try: Return-Path: <uunet!sunfse.ese.lmsc.lockheed.com!mcfar> PR ] I have an event handler working for a ButtonPressMask like: XtAddEventHandler( plot_data->display, ButtonPressMask, FALSE, show_mouse_position, plot_data); but I would like to be able to have two types of actions: one to occur with the left mouse, the other the right, and perhaps one with the middle. So my event handler would look more like: XtAddEventHandler( plot_data->display, left-ButtonPressMask, FALSE, show_left_mouse_position, plot_data); XtAddEventHandler( plot_data->display, right-ButtonPressMask, FALSE, show_right_mouse_position, plot_data); However I don't know how to make my left-ButtonPressMask. There didn't seem to be one in the event mask lists I had on hand (although Button1MotionMask looked promising). My references also mentioned using "|" to or two mask events. Can you use "&" to and two masks? Would I want to in this case? Any help would be appreciated. Thanks,
I saw in the newspaper last night that Dr. Mae Jemison, the first black woman in space (she's a physician and chemical engineer who flew on Endeavour last year) will appear as a transporter operator on the "Star Trek: The Next Generation" episode that airs the week of May 31. It's hardly space science, I know, but it's interesting.
There would be no problems as long as the OS didn't set up a DMA transfer to an area above the 16 mb area (the DMA controller probably can't be programmed that way anyways, so there probably isin't a problem with this)
In addition to restricted mileage, many classic insurance carriers also require that the vehicle be garaged when not in use. $0.02 Ericy
It did it again. This morning, my 88 Ford Ranger was idling at 10,000 RPM. Ok, so I exaggerated a little, but it was idling very fast. It has a 2 liter carburated engine in it, and no blipping of the throttle would cause the idle to drop back to normal (I don't think the linkage is stuck). What can I do to fix this problem? This has been a problem from time to time, but has straightened itself out - until now. I don't have a tach, but by gauging by the sound of the engine, it is idling about twice as fast as it should be. This is down from what it was idling at when I pulled up at a stop light. Many thanks for any suggestions. - les
Hmmm. I seem to recall that the attraction of solid state record- players and radios in the 1960s wasn't better performance but lower per-unit cost than vacuum-tube systems. Mind you, my father was a vacuum-tube fan in the 60s (Switched to solid-state in the mid-seventies and then abruptly died; no doubt there's a lesson in that) and his account could have been biased.
That figure (1/4") for image rotation would seem to be a little high... on my NEC 5FG the specs call for no greater than 3mm (0.12"). I can't speak for MAG Innovision but as far as NEC is concerned, they are adjusted to "factory-spec" before leaving the central USA distribution point (MA) for the eastern Canadian market. Now, here's the key: NEC *knows* that the >=15" monitors' adjustments are very sensitive to shipping over distances (with all the bumps, rough handling, and such) and therefore *expect* and (at least in theory) *require* that the local *distributor* (not dealer) have it adjusted at the *local* service centre (Bull HN Information Systems in Toronto) before sale. This is the correct and probably only way of having any chance of receiving a "perfect" monitor (the definition of "perfect" seems to depend on how picky one is, in my case quite :). I, for one, was not willing to accept what I considered a substandard monitor and, after two months of wrangling and direct contact with NEC, finally received a satisfactorily adjusted monitor (not perfect, IMHO, but a major improvement over what the dealer and distributor were trying convince me was "normal"). The short answer is no, don't accept these "imperfections" as "normal" because for the premium one pays for the larger screen monitors, one has a right to expect higher quality, and if you're persistent, you'll receive it.
From: "Phil G. Fraering" <pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu> Right, the Profiting Caste is blessed by God, and may freely blare its presence in the evening twilight ..
Go easy on him drieux. It is the right of every American to know nothing about anything. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ "Who said anything about panicking?" snapped Authur. Garrett Johnson "This is still just culture shock. You wait till I've Garrett@Ingres.com settled into the situation and found my bearings. THEN I'll start panicking!" - Douglas Adams
... Seems to me if you learned to differentiate between illusion and reality on your own you wouldn't need to rely on doctrines that need to be updated. My experience of Christianity (25+ years) is that most Christians seek answers from clergymen who have little or no direct experience of spiritual matters, and that most of these questions can be answered by simple introspection. Most people suspect that they cannot trust their senses, but few take the next step to figure out that they can trust themselves. Not to get too esoteric, but it seems that most religions, Christianity included, are founded by particularly intuitive people who understand this. (stuff deleted) And what if the original poster, Pixie, is never "converted?" Does it make sense that she (or I, or the majority of humanity for that matter) would go to hell for eternity, as many Christians believe? It makes more sense to me that rather than be converted to a centuries-old doctrine that holds no life for her, that she simply continue to decide for herself what is best. --------------------------------------------
That I did not do; however, the sample bolt I took to the store fit rather well in the following: 1/2" open end wrench, 1/2" box end wrench, 1/2" 12-point normal socket. I take that as meaning it's a 1/2" bolt head. Yup. At $6 a socket, I want the @#$@# thing to FIT! Later,
It's my understanding that the freezing will start to occur because of the growing distance of Pluto and Charon from the Sun, due to it's elliptical orbit. It is not due to shadowing effects. Pluto can shadow Charon, and vice-versa. George Krumins --
Available for Weekly/bi-weekly/weekend Rental : A brand new chalet in a private resort community located in the heart of the Pocono Mountains. The chalet has 3 bedrooms and 2 bathrooms and features full carpeting, cathedral ceiling in living/dining room, an overlooking loft, stone fireplace, wraparound deck, country kitchen with all appliances and many other features too numerous to list them all. Its custom designed and built and tastefully furnished for the comfort of 8 adults. The community has 24 hour security and offers 2 large lakes, 4 sandy beaches, 2 swimming pools, 9 tennis courts, many picnic areas, 4 playgrounds, miniature golf, trout stream/lake fishing, team softball, shuffleboard, ice skating/tobagun run, teen dances, club house etc. etc. There are many recreational facilities within easy reach of the vacation home. Ski resorts, luxury hotels with nitely entertaiment, Pocono international raceway, golf courses, parks, gamelands, whitewater rafting, horseback riding, scenic trails, waterfalls, train rides, historical places, all kinds of restaurants, factory outlet malls, tourist attractions, just to name a few. This is an ideal place for a family/group vacation or a weekend getaway. There is no traffic congestion and air or water pollution and its only 2 hours from New York, Northern New Jersey and Philadelphia. For further information call :
: From: OPDBS@vm.cc.latech.edu : Subject: Taurus/Sable rotor recall : My '92 Taurus GL with only 26k on the clock also has rotor warp. : Apparently they HAVEN'T fixed the problem yet. But try convincing the Ford : service person to fix it for free...Right!!! : Tony Gads, I have heard so many horror stories with Taurus and Sable cars! I thought these were premium American automobiles. The way they sell, you'd think so. Is Ford really no better than in the late '70s when it was turning out tin cans like the Granada and the Fairmount? Which would you get, a Taurus or a Camry or Accord?
One of those "morning, just getting the coffee in me" thoughts: Waving at other bikers makes more sense than just "Hey, how's it going, nice to meet you on the road, have a good ride" 1) If you're watching for other bikes to wave to, it means your attention is on the road, where it should be, and you're more likely to see cages.
Just felt it was important to add four letters that Steve left out of his Subject: header.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ There is a picture in the May 1993 edition of European Car (although, it may not be on the shelf yet). - prototype has front wheel drive (first front drive for Mercedes since the beginning of WWII) - wheelbase 3.15m - 7 seater - they claim that the price will be about the same as a Renault Espace or Chrysler Voyager (DM 50,000) Looking at the picture (slightly disguised) it looks like the Ford Aerostar, to me. . / Larry __/ _______/_ keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov / \ _____ __ _____ \------- === ----------- / ____/ / / /__ __/ \ / ___ / / ___ / / / / ____ | | / \/ /__ / | / /__ __/ /__ / \ / /___ \_______/ /_____/ /______/ ====OO \ / \ / - 1990 2.0 16v - ---------------- FAHRVERGNUGEN FOREVER! -------------------- The fact that I need to explain it to you indicates that you probably wouldn't understand anyway!
<<<most of message deleted>>>
Computer: 286-25 mhz Bus: ISA (12.5 mhz) Drive: Maxtor 7213A (213 mb) config.sys / autoexec.bat MS DOS 5 no WIN 3.1 smartdrv.sys cache smartdrv.exe CORE (V 2.7) 6950 k/sec 1390 k/sec 1395 k/sec Norton SI (V 5.0) 730 k/sec 980 k/sec 982 k/sec I'd still like to here from people with VLB-IDE. I still want to know what VLB bus speed is used with IDE drives. I still want to know if some (most ?) IDE drives can handle bus speeds > 8 mhz.
I got a question from my dad which I really can't answer and I'd appreciate some net.wisdom. His question is about some 18-24" diameter balls which are attached to electric power lines in his area. He's seen up to a half dozen between two poles. Neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution. My only guess was that they may be a capacitive device to equalize the inductance of the grid, but why so many between two poles?. Anyone know what they really are? Is there a related FAQ for this? Is there a better group to submit to? We'd both appreciate some enlightenment.
> If you know the Latin, one really beautiful way to hear the > Passion is its being chanted by three deacons: the Narrator > chants in the middle baritone range, Jesus chants in the bass, > and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor. This is done in English (same music as the traditional Latin) in many Anglican parishes. I should expect that many RCC parishes would do likewise. The ST MATTHEW PASSION and ST JOHN PASSION of J S Bach are direct offshoots of this tradition
No, that's praying on the young. Preying on the young comes later, when the bright eyed little altar boy finds out what the priest really wears under that chasible. /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ Bob Beauchaine bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM They said that Queens could stay, they blew the Bronx away, and sank Manhattan out at sea.
OK Phil, you're right. So far the "evidence" suggests that Nixon was a victim of overzealous underlings and Kennedy was a womanizing disgust-o-blob with a dash of megalomania. After crushing the CIA and FBI who's to say Kennedy wouldn't have created his own version of American Friendly Fascism? Unfortunately however, we don't have all the evidence. So far this nation's citizens have been privy to about 12 hours of the total 4,000 hours of Nixon's tapes. What's on the rest of those babies? Some archivists have alluded that there is "evidence" to suggest that Nixon and his cronies, including George Bush, were aware of the plot to murder Kennedy before he was shot in Dallas. Ask your local D.A. what the charges are for the above crime. And so I must ask you, Phil me putz, when all this shit finally comes out when you and I are old men, I would appreciate the privilege of sticking a pole up your ass and parading you down Main Street with a sign on your chest: "I was an Apologist for the American Fascist Regime circa 1944 -- 2010" (How's that for a lovely Brecht-ian image:-) There, that ought to get a reaction. Unless I'm in his killfile this week...
I wish to echo what D. Andrew Kille wrote. I know of no published form in English of the D-type recension of "Acts". Of course, Bezae is quite bizarre in the gospels as well. Only D-type texts share Bezae's strange readings. [By the way, "D" stands for Codex Claromontanus elsewhere.] Frank D
Actually, it's HAPP, and some of their equipment can be found in the Parts Express catalog (1-800-338-0531). They show switches for $2, joysticks for $13 and trackballs for $80. They also have pinball parts. Good luck.
assuming yours is a non turbo MR2, the gruffness is characteristic of a large inline 4 that doesn't have balance shafts. i guess toyota didn't care about "little" details like that when they can brag about the mid engine configuration and the flashy styling. myself, i automatically cross out any car from consideration (or recommendation) which has an inline 4 larger than 2 liters and no balance shafts.. it is a good rule of thumb to keep in mind if you ever want a halfway decent engine. if the noise really bugs you, there is nothing else that you can do except to sell it and get a V6.
I am interested in finding out how the 4Runner and Pathfinder have been updated in the past few years. Like new engine, suspension and the like. I noticed that the 1993 and 1992 4Runners are identical, for example, and was looking into buying a used one. Any info would be appreciated, esp. models/years to check out or avoid.
Deion Sanders hit a home run in his only AB today. Nixon was 1 for 4. Infield single. Deion's batting over .400 Nixon: around .200. Whom would YOU start? Wise up, Bobby. See y'all at the ballyard Go Braves Chop Chop Michael Mule'
It depends on which uniforms you are talking about. For the last couple of years I believe Toronto and Pittsburgh has used the same uniforms, or at least very similar. The home jerseys had the team nick name (Blue Jays or Pirates), but the road jerseys had the name of the city (Toronto or Pittsburgh). I believe this is the way most teams design their uniforms.
<In article <31MAR199321091163@juliet.caltech.edu<, lmh@juliet.caltech.edu (Henling, Lawrence M.) writes... <<Atheism (Greek 'a' not + 'theos' god) Belief that there is no god. <<Agnosticism (Greek 'a' not + ~ 'gnostein ?' know) Belief that it is << not possible to determine if there is a god. <No. Agnosticism as you have here defined it is a positive belief--a <belief that it is not possible to determine the existence of any gods. <That's a belief I'm inclined to reject. You have also defined atheism <here as a positive belief--that there is no god. A fairly large number <of atheists on alt.atheism reject this definition, instead holding that <atheism is simply the absence of belief in a god. Michael Martin, in <_Atheism: A Philosophical Justification_, distinguishes strong atheism My mistake. I will have to get a newer dictionary and read the follow up line.
In soc.religion.christian you write: Note that the above type of prediction does not require a God to be made. An expert in a field can also predict things based on experience. Beware of predictions like "The volcano will erupt tomorrow!" Don't follow the preacher because of such statements that come true. Note also, that if I'm describing a (hypothetical) death of a friend as a result of his passion for fast motorcycles, I might say "his mother predicted he would die." Of course, his father may have said "he 'll make good money because of his hobby" and depending upon the final outcome of the situation I end up mentioning the one that's relevant. A reader down the road will get the impression that the mother or father had predicted accurately the event, when it was just a casual statement. Finally, on prophesies, note that there are many prophesies that can be fulfilled my people, often to fool believers. If I say, "Beware, the terminal will unexpectedly be shut off!" and then after 2 secs I turn it off (or have someone come out from another room and do it) there was no prediction. A similar situation arises with the establishment of the Jewish state. While pressing for it, prominent Jews argued that it was predicted that they'd have a state again, and that the time has come. (I've read this somewhere, but can't think of the source - if you can, please let me know.) In this case, the establishment of the state does not really fulfill the prophesy since the prophesy was used in order to push for the establishment of the state. Deciding what was truely a fulfillment of prophesy is very tricky. -leo
Request for opinions: Which is better - a one-piece Aerostitch or a two-piece Aerostitch? We're looking for more than "Well, the 2-pc is more versatile, but the 1-pc is better protection,..."
If you want to live with someone, you can. If you don't want to have a civil marriage, don't. If you don't want to have a wedding in a church, don't. If you want to call that a marriage, go right ahead. I hope that the young people that are around you, don't follow your example.
For the purpose of a contest, I'd bet some things could be cut. Like fuel for re-entry, any kind of heat shielding, etc., etc. Even still, if the contest participants had to fund DC-1 development, it probably wouldn't be worth it to develop DC-1 (just for the contest). Just give me the cheapest heaviest lift man rated (or at least under 6 or so Gs) booster... If I don't have to pay for DC-1 development, great!, I'll use it. But back to the contest goals, there was a recent article in AW&ST about a low cost (it's all relative...) manned return to the moon. A General Dynamics scheme involving a Titan IV & Shuttle to lift a Centaur upper stage, LEV, and crew capsule. The mission consists of delivering two unmanned payloads to the lunar surface, followed by a manned mission. Total cost: US was $10-$13 billion. Joint ESA(?)/NASA project was $6-$9 billion for the US share. I didn't find a mention of how long the crew could stay, but I'd bet that its around 30 days. And the total payload delivered was about 30 metric tonnes. So if you ignore the scientific payload, hitch a ride in the crew habitation module (no return trip...), and toss in a few more tonnes for the additional consumables to last another 11 months, then you *might* be able to get a year visit out of 15 tonnes (and in case its not obvious, that's a wild ass guess). A pretty boring visit, since every trip outdoors eats up a bit of LOX. And I'm not certain if a home brewed (or college-brewed) life support system could last a year. But let's round this up to 19.4 tonnes (convient, since the GD plan talks about 9.7 ton payloads delivered to the lunar surface. This adds up to two Centaurs, two LEVs, two Shuttle flights... All to put a single man on the moon for a year. Hmmm. Not really practical. Anyone got a cheaper/better way of delivering 15-20 tonnes to the lunar surface within the decade? Anyone have a more precise guess about how much a year's supply of consumables and equipment would weigh? And I was wondering about the GD LEV. Is it reusable? Or is it discarded to burn up on return to LEO? If its not discarded, could it be refueled? Henry: Do you know anything about the GD LEV? I noted that it uses RL-10 engines. Aren't they reusable/restartable? Would a LEV fit in a DC-1? I've forgotten (if I ever knew) what the cargo bay dimensions are for the DC-1. All in all, I'm not certain that the single goal/prize of staying on the moon for a year is wise and/or useful. How about: A prize for the first non-government sponsered unmanned moon landing, then another for a manned moon landing, then yet another for a system to extract consumables from lunar soil, another for a reusable earth/moon shuttle, and so forth. Find some way to build civilian moonbase infrastructure... Having a single goal might result in a bunch of contestents giving up after one person appeared to win. And for those that didn't give up, I find something a little scary about a half dozen people huddling in rickety little moon shelters. I'd like to see as much a reward for co-operation as for competition. Lastly, about ten or fifteen years back I seem to recall that there was an English space magazine that had an on-going discussion about moonbases on the cheap. I recalled it discussed things like how much heat the human body produced, how much lunar material it'd need for protection from solar flares, etc. Unfortunately I don't remember the name of this magazine. Does this ring a bell to anyone?
Pat> In article <SHAFER.93Apr6094402@rigel.dfrf.nasa.gov> Pat> Gee, I thought the X-15 was Cable controlled. Didn't one of them Pat> have a total electrical failure in flight? Was there machanical Pat> backup systems? All reaction-controlled aircraft are fly-by-wire, at least the RCS part is. On the X-15 the aerodynamic control surfaces (elevator, rudder, etc) were conventionally controlled (pushrods and cables) but the RCS jets were fly-by-wire. Pat> What do you mean? Overstress the wings, and they fail at teh Pat> joints? Navy aircraft have folding or sweeping wings, in order to save space on the hangar deck. The F-14 wings sweep, all the rest fold the wingtips up at a joint. Air Force planes don't have folding wings, since the Air Force has lots of room.
You're obviously not referring to any of the three above-quoted individuals, because barnacles don't each send $20 to the crew of the ship to keep it moving. "Get the organization to act on it" is easy to say, but says little about what one really can and should do. What the organization actually will do is largely determined by the president and directors, as far as I can see. That's what makes it so important to vote in an election of officers. It does strike me that the BMWMOA is a lot less politically active (in the state and national arenas, not infighting) than other M/C organizations. Should we change this? Or just join the other groups that already are in politics? (Incidentally, the political hazards to motorcycle riders in the US at the moment don't compare to the problems of some other groups like gun owners. Just try to take up target pistol shooting in the Northeast or California, and I bet you'll wish you only had to worry about wearing a helmet. (Why does every thread on rec.moto eventually come around to guns?))
Has anyone done a model of the 52 pin version of the 68hc11? It doesn't seem to be too big a job, but if someone else has already done it ...
AllThe Devil ReincarnateSWR meter for CB radios TD>From: ssave@ole.cdac.com (The Devil Reincarnate) TD>Organization: CDAC, WA TD>What TD>is a good choice for a CB? 1/4 or 1/8 wave? TD> I read the installation instructions on a 1/4 wave antenna, TD>and they suggested that I use an SWR to tune it at channel 12 TD>and channel 32 for a minimum reading. Question is, why channel TD>12 and 32? The best antenna is one that will let out the most wave (probably not the best explanation, but the rest makes sense) A one wave will cancell itself out (BTW no such beastie) . The best is a 1/2 wave antenna, followed by 1/4, then 1/8 etc. As for SWRing in, what you actually do is trim the antenna to the correct length for the specific wavelength you will be transmitting on. Since the wavelength varies with the channel you use, then it's recommended to SWR in using the middle channel of those you are going to use. Anyway in the beginning of CB's, all new antennas had to be SWR'ed in, nowdays manufactures trim the antennas almost spot on, so that there's not much point in SWRing. Then again you may be a fanatic and whish to do it anyway.
I agree. Where in the Gospels does Jesus advocate any of the actions you mention? I couldn't find "witch" or "sorceress" in my concordance. Is there something in the Epistles about witches? (I'm still working my way through the Gospels.) JJ
So. If I can scrounge up a good looking CX500 Turbo, will someone trade me an MHR Duc for it? ===============================================================================
[William Christie asked about the Essene NT. Andrew Kille reponded --clh]
I've been thinking about the idea that was raised (by Michael Covington, I think) that words mean what we think they mean, regardless of etymology. I've been reflecting on what certain words meant in my childhood and tracing how this shaped some of my attitudes. I grew up in a home where Christ was a bad word. People who were very angry said it. The word Christian meant someone who was not a Jew. It carried connotations of otherness, of threat, of enemy. It took some time to figure out that there was a connection between `Christ' and `Christian'. When I accepted Jesus, I expected to be disowned. To become a Christian meant to join the enemy. I knew others would consider me a traitor. At some level, I agreed, but was still prepared to pay this price. Like Esau, I sold my birthright. However, I made a better bargain. He only got some stew, but I got the incomparable riches of knowing Christ. As it turned out, my parents did not disown me. I found out later that they were hoping it was a phase that I would grow out of. By the time they had decided it wasn't a phase, they were sort of used to it. They didn't disown me but they didn't completely accept the situation either. For example, they didn't come to my wedding because it was in a church. When I visited my grandmother in the hospital a few days before her death, she said to me, "As far as I'm concerned, you still are a Jew." What she meant was that she loved me and forgave me. But I am not a Jew. I am a Christian. (I'll concede, one that likes chicken soup with matzoh balls.:-)) I do not keep kosher. I do not celebrate the Sabbath on Saturday. My sons are not circumcised. But these things are true of some people who do consider themselves Jews. It is not these rules that make people Jews; it is the heritage from the past. I gave up the past. This is why I find it hard to relate to Messianic Jews. Their experience is unlike mine. They still consider themselves Jews while following Jesus. Some would even say that I *must* do so, too. I am at a stage of my life now where I would like to have a heritage. It was not something I valued very much when I gave it. But I did have a sense that I was giving it for God. It may have been a small sacrifice. It may have been an unnecessary sacrifice. But I gave it and do not want to ask for it back. And while I don't have the heritage I was born with, I do have another. I am an outcast from the house of Israel, but I am a member of the Church. One of the things I like about being a Catholic Christian is that it is rich in tradition. It gives me a feeling of, once again, being rooted in the past. This is probably one of the reasons why I don't like it when people mess around with Christian traditions (for example, changing the name of Easter). These traditions fill an important emotional need of mine. I suppose the point of all this is that people shouldn't assume that all believers of Jewish background are the same. For some `Jewish Christian' is a good name, for others it is an oxymoron.
As far as I know, tigers are not sentient. If I were pushed into a pool with some dolphins and they attacked me, I might be inclined to blame the dolphins rather than the person doing the pushing, as (a) dolphins are not usually aggressive and (b) they seem to have well-developed brains and a capacity for abstract thought. As a matter of fact, tigers rarely attack humans unless the human provokes them. Of course, if they are in a cage which is far too small, that might count as provocation...
In <1993Apr15.045651.6892@midway.uchicago.edu>, thf2@midway.uchicago.edu sez: Even if Brett's eventual-return figures were correct -- and they clearly weren't -- he'd still be wrong about the cause for the '86 blip because he fails to consider 2 basic factors: 1) As Ted notes, not everyone is a long-term investor. One might find oneself, as I did in late 1986, anticipating expenses in the near term that require selling off holdings. Given the choice between waiting a few weeks (and taking an extra tax hit) or selling in December with preferential tax treatment, only a fool would choose the former. 2) The fact that Brett can now construct _post hoc_ calculations of what would have been more beneficial to investors is in many respects beside the point. There was plenty of _Money_-style advice given to unsophisticated investors in late 1986 to "sell now and save on taxes." In case anyone missed it, there was no shortage of similar advice late last year (in the NYTimes, e.g.), even though that advice was based not on the foregone conclusion of enacted law (as in 1986), but merely on the *assumption* that Clinton would raise tax rates (without capping CG taxes, contrary to the current proposal). It's nice to think that investors always behave in their optimal economic interest. Like assuming weightless ropes and frictionless pulleys, though, this sort of thinking often fails to describe accurately what happens in the real world.
Does anybody else think that WS stats should become part of a player's career stats? Why not?
I have a video board for sale for Macintosh NU-Bus machines. My other deal fell through. I am asking $200. RasterOps 8XL 640x480 800x600 <--- This was incorrectly posted as 832x624 before. 640x870 1024x768 (60hz & 75 hz) 1152x870 Make offers by mail.
(Deletion) For me, it is a "I believe no gods exist" and a "I don't believe gods exist". In other words, I think that statements like gods are or somehow interfere with this world are false or meaningless. In Ontology, one can fairly conclude that when "A exist" is meaningless A does not exist. Under the Pragmatic definition of truth, "A exists" is meaningless makes A exist even logically false. A problem with such statements is that one can't disprove a subjective god by definition, and there might be cases where a subjective god would even make sense. The trouble with most god definitions is that they include some form of objective existence with the consequence of the gods affecting all. Believers derive from it a right to interfere with the life of others. (Deletion)
Hello... I wonder if some one can suggest an answer to the following question: I am a total X novice and would appreciate any suggestions you may have. I am trying to create a simple drawing tool.... __________ | | | ___|___ |_____|__| | | | |_____| Let's say I have two rectangles on the canvas(see above) one intersecting the other... Now, I would like to delete one of the rectangles. The way I do it is to create another GC wherein I use the GXxor logical function and simply redraw the rectangle using the newly created graphics context thus deleting it for all apparent purposes. A problem with this approach is that at the points of intersection the pixel locations belonging to the other rectangle also become white, which is something that should be avoided. Is there any way I can avoid this problem without having to redraw the other rectangle too? I also would not like to generate an expose event for the affected area as this degrades performance very badly...
Chapter 7 operation in Somlia. Almost Chapter 7 in Cambodia and Yugo. 'Bout time the UN started using force to make the peace happen. Hopefully, they will soon be doing the same with world economics.
Including all the ones who think that they countersteer all the way through a corner?? Agreed! This is really the only thing we disagree on. Maybe we should agree to disagree?? I still think that telling newbies to steer left to turn to the right is unnecessarily confusing, when they'll do it anyway if they just get on the bike and ride the damn thing. Me too!! :-) Jeez, Ed, when you started talking about traction management policies I thought you were making some weird reference to looking after railway locomotives... The official line here (though I do have my doubts about it) is that the front brake is applied first, followed by the rear brake, the idea being that you avoid locking up the rear after weight transfer takes place. In practice I suspect most people do what you describe. If you don't slide the tyre, you have no way of knowing whether you've achieved maximum braking or not. I'm not suggesting that you should always aim to brake as hard as you possibly can - but if you want to find the limits of the machine, you have to go beyond them.
Last night I heard something about Bill Clinton's sister being involved in a marijuana bust, and the news being suppressed. I also heard something about her being an "ex-con". This source is not reliable, though. (It was a collage/booklet advertising a local band.) Can anyone on the net verify this or provide more details? I'm surprised I haven't seen anything about this in this newsgroup. Also, does anyone know what happened to the charges that Shalala was a regular pot smoker when she was in college? This ghastly accusation was reported on CNN Streamline News the day she was nominated, then I never heard anything about it again. It's almost enough to make me want to start an Act-Up type campaign to invade the privacy of closet smokers! (If only this type of publicity didn't violate people's rights. . . .) Jake.
If you'd like to find a home for that beekeeping equipment you'll never use again, here's a likely victim, uh, customer. To make a deal, call: Laura Forbes (503)275-4483
How about 250MB/s for 64-bit VLB or 350MB/s for QuickRing {Apple's implimentation of VLB (Byte 10/92:132)} QuickRing is interesting in that it allows interleaving with other card so that the 350MB/s can be divided among many cards at the same time {NuBus 90 and MCA are about the only card interfaces able to DO anything with that kind of speed and even NuBus 90 ditzes around at ~30MB/s with a burst mode: 80MB/s. "MCA {Also called Micro Channel} IBM's 16 and 32-bit bus; "allows use of more than one CPU in a computer" (DCT) and anything can talk to anything, >>as fast as the two components involved can handle it.<< Never took off because it was incompatible with ISA and EISA. Planned to be bus interface of IBM PowerPC 601 (Carl Jabido).
Is it possible to run an MIT R5 based Xserver on a Sun with a Rasterops TC Colorboard (24bit board)? I have the Xsun24 patches for supporting sun's 24bit frame buffers but does the rasterops appear as if its a cgtwelve or something else? I know nothing about the rasterops other than we might be buying one to put in an IPX.
THANKS TO ALL OF YOU WHO RESPONDED TO MY POSTING. THE PROBLEM WITH MY TRUCK'S HEADLIGHTS LOW BEAM PROBLEM WAS A "LOOSE WIRE CONNECTION". IT WAS NOT THE "FUSE" AS A MINORITY OF YOU SUGGESTED.
*thud* (see .sig)
Announce that a reward of $1 billion would go to the first corporation who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year. And with $1B on offer, the problem of "keeping them alive" is highly likely to involve more than just the lunar environment! "Oh Dear, my freighter just landed on the roof of ACME's base and they all died. How sad. Gosh, that leaves us as the oldest residents." "Quick Boss, the slime from YoyoDyne are back, and this time they've got a tank! Man the guns!" One could imagine all sorts of technologies being developed in that sort of environment..... Greg. (I'm kidding, BTW, although the problem of winner-takes-all prizes is that it encourages all sorts of undesirable behaviour - witness military procurement programs. And $1b is probably far too small a reward to encourage what would be a very expensive and high risk proposition.)
There are two more reasons to save old databooks and then beyond two years--obsoleted parts and better application notes and tutorials. When a part is dropped from future production planning, such as the National MM-series white noise generators, camera sync generators, etc., it will disappear from current databooks although it still may be produced for a short time (or be available from stock somewhere). Now, if you have some old plans calling for such a device, or you have a dead gadget on your workbench and it has such a part in it, you'll know the functions so you can troubleshoot and substitute as necessary. The old GE thyristor data books contain real good tutorials on SCR and triac applications that are not found elsewhere, for example. Here, here!... -- -------------------------------------------------------------------- Dave Medin Phone: (205) 730-3169 (w) SSD--Networking (205) 837-1174 (h) Intergraph Corp. M/S GD3004 Internet: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com Huntsville, AL 35894 UUCP: ...uunet!ingr!b30!catbyte!dtmedin ******* Everywhere You Look (at least around my office) *******
Note that the laws that don't agree with you were passed to protect a class of people who couldn't get justice from the state courts; specifically civil rights workers in Missisippi in the 60's. The federal protection of individual rights supersedes the non-feasance of the state. Something similar has long been traditional ( well he's queer so I beat him up...) for gays As Anatole France said; "The law in its impartial majesty forbids the rich as well as the poor from sleeping under bridges." Equality of law can be construed in any number of ways. For example the fact that all property thefts, regardless of value, are not punished equally is an inequality which protects those who have a lot of money from having it stolen. You could easily define equality to regard the property in terms of it's significance for the owner. This would a form of equality that would be skewed toward poorer people. In fact, most anti-gay bashing laws are constructed to offer equal protection. They make it an offense to damage people based on a motivation of hatred for sexual orientation. Thus the law in its impartial majesty protects hets as well as gays from being bashed. I'm sure that's a great relief to Douglas Meier.
I was at my parents' Seder and noticed the labelling on one of the packages was English, Hebrew and French. In the phrase "kosher for passover" the French word used was "Pa^ques." We've deliberately mistranslated this at the Kulikauskas home and keep referring to foods being kosher for Easter. :-) Back to the original questions in this thread concerning Christians of Jewish descent and the Law: I always wonder when I see posts on this subject whether the writers are Christians of Jewish descent relating the life-decisions God has led them to or people who take only an academic interest in the topic. (Having known Seanna since she was nine years old, I do know in this case.) I admit that the answer to this question affects the amount of weight I give to the writer's statement.
Computers are a special case.. and it's a pretty good idea to leave them on.. cuz everytime you turn on a computer, you're putting a surge of electricity through its delicate components. Imagine you're turning on your computer 5 or more times a day. You're increasing the chances of damaging the chips, memory, etc on all the components of your computer. So you may save a few cents here and there in electricity bills, but it won't look like much when it come time to fix your computer.
Those rules/regulations/laws would be subject to the same attack: that they are attempting to preempt federal authority to regulate (or not) radio communications. Of course, as the original poster noted, court challenges of this kind can get expensive.
Not to your satisfaction. But the arguments have convinced me, and others.
I have a 486DX33 ISA system with 4 meg. I am using a Diamond Speedstar HiColor video card with 1 meg VRAM and a standard CTX 14-in SVGA monitor. When I am running Windows, and I have overlapping windows (say an application overlapping the program manager window), and I close the active application, window erasure is very slow. The part of the window that is not overlapping is erased first, very slowly. This also happens when I iconify an application. The HiColor card is advertised as a faster-than-standard video card, but it does not have an accelerator chip on it. I am running at 800x600x32k. Is this slow speed simply to be expected without an accelerator chip, or is there something else that is bottlenecking the system that I am unaware of? Thanks.
I'll second that. In addition, I find my hazards to be more often used than my horn. At speeds below 40mph on the interstates, quite common in mountains with trucks, some states require flashers. In rural areas, flashers let the guy behind you know there is a tractor with a rather large implement behind it in the way. Use them whenever you need to communicate that things will deviate from the norm. Is that ZX-11 painted green? Since the green Triumph 650 that a friend owned was sold off, her name is now free for adoption. How does the name "Thunderpickle" grab you?
The following used CD's are for sale. They are each $8 unless otherwise marked. I will pay for the shipping and handling costs. If you are interested in any just e-mail me at awakhras@phoenix.princeton.edu. At that point we will figure out the payment and mailing procedure. Artist Title Robbie Robertson Storyville Love and Rockets Love and Rockets Jeff Lynne Armchair Theatre Elvis Costello Mighty Like a Rose Public Image LTD 9 Neneh Cherry Raw Like Sushi Bobby Brown Don't Be Cruel Depeche Mode Black Celebration Traveling Wilburys Vol. 1 Bad Company 10 from 6 Soul II Soul Vol. II-1990 A New Decade The Godfathers More Songs About Love and Hate Paul McCartney Flowers in the Dirt Simply Red Stars Prince Graffitti Bridge
If you need speed, and your client can run on the same host as the X server, you should use the shared memory extension to the sample X server (MIT-SHM). xdpyinfo will tell you if your server has this extension. This is certainly available with the sample MIT X server running under SunOS. A word of warning: make sure your kernel is configured to support shared memory. And another word of warning: OpenWindows is slower than the MIT server. I have written an imaging tool (using XView for the GUI, by the way) which yields over 10 frames per second for 512*512*8 bit images, running on a Sparc IPC (half the cpu grunt of an IPX). This has proved quite sufficient for animations. Regards,
Poor Matthew. A million posters to call "you car drivers" and he chooses me, a non car owner.
While I cannot answer questions about running XDM over a DECnet, I can say that the following defines must be added to the site.def before building R5 before any X clients will work over a DECnet. From site.def #define ConnectionFlags -DTCPCONN -DUNIXCONN -DDNETCONN #define ExtraLibraries -ldnet Hoping this helps, George -- /******************************************************************* * The opinions expressed are those of the author and in no way * * represent the opinions of the CUNY Graduate School, its agencies * * or personnel. mcc@timessqr.gc.cuny.edu || CMCGC@CUNYVM.BITNET * *******************************************************************/
Mack posted: "I know nothing about statistics, but what significance does the relatively small population growth rate have where the sampling period is so small (at the end of 1371)?" This is not small. A 2.7 per cent annual population growth rate implies a doubling in 69/2.7 \approx 25 years. Can you imagine that? Most people seem not able to, and that is why so many deny that this problem exists, for me most especially in the industrialised countries (low growth rates, but large environmental impact). Iran's high growth rate threatens things like accelerated desertification due to intensive agriculture, deforestation, and water table drop. Similar to what is going on in California (this year's rain won't save you in Stanford!). This is probably more to blame than the current government's incompetence for dropping living standards in Iran.
William December Starr writes... in a typical lawyer baiting fashion, as usual. (All the while ignoring every principle of the ACLU.) Good to see your still out there WDS. Surely we've been around the ring enough by now, that you know you can't spin me up with expletives. Let's see if there's anything left worth responding to... E for effort. Heard about the folks who live around foghorns and airports? Seems right in character to me -- creature of the state. Btw, are you still happy with your presidents? See the part about the children following the "and" in the first line above. As to a connection, your "cult" is "faith in rules". Sure. My concern is the well being of the children. {Interesting that you would respond "emotionally" in defense of the government. Maybe there is a beating heart there.} For the record though, the biggest-baddest goverment on earth claims the most sovereignty over man. Best I can tell God allows anyone to go to hell who wants to. Omnipotency logically determines that "allowing" and "sending" mean the same thing. (Mere human concepts of course.) So come on WDS. Why bother to try some flimsy facade of logic. Waco proves it's not needed -- the demonstration that government can walk over it's own rules in the name of justice has been made. No problem by me. Noted and announced -- for the record. Just giving the govern- ment it's due, and getting back to more worthwhile non-government concerns.
Hi Adda, Most Bible scholars agree that there was one copy of each book at a certain time -- the time when the author wrote it. Unfortunately, like all works from this time period and earlier, all that exists today are copies. There are parts of books, scraps really, that date from around the mid second century (A.D. 130+). There are some complete books, letters, etc. from the middle third century. The first complete collection of the New Testament dates from the early 4th century (A.D. 325). Throughout this period are writings of various early church fathers/leaders who quoted various scriptures in their writings. If you mean that someone discovered thousands of "Bibles" which were all perfect copies dating from the last part of the 1st century...No! If you mean that there are thousands of early manuscripts (within the dates given above, but not letter perfect) and that the most probable text can be reconstructed from these documents and that the earliest original autographs (now lost) probably were written starting sometime shortly after A.D. 50, then yes. From the original authors. We call them Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Peter, Paul, James, and one other not identified. As long as you make it. Regards,
Wow. I was beginning to think that I had made that up. I remember that movie (it was about 1.5 hours long). I don't think they ended up anywhere in the known universe. I remember they got a message halfway out to Proxima Centauri, that Earth transmitted a day after they launched, timed to catch up with them at the halfway point. I thought it was neat, I think I was all of 10 at the time. Space:1999 has just come out with 4 episodes released in American stores. I will look for the Into Infinity show, I never did know that was the name of it, I thought the show was called "the day after tomorrow", and that was it.
... But what was wrong with it? It won't tempt anyone to any kind of sin, as far as I can tell. It doesn't belittle anyone. It does not substitute offensiveness for humor (it's genuinely funny). We shouldn't assume that _all_ jokes that mention sexuality are "dirty" merely because so many are. And we should never mistake prudery for spirituality. It can be the direct opposite -- a symptom of the _lack_ of a healthy perspective on God's creation.
******* ******* This is somewhat long, but pleas read it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ******* Boy am i glad you decided to read this. I've got a problem that I need as many people's help from as possible. Before I go in to the details of this, let me go ahead and tell you that (though it may sound it) this is not one of those boy meets girl problem...at least not totally like that to me....Anyway... OK, I am a 19 year old Sophmore at NCSU. About 10 years ago, my family and I were vacationing at the coast in a cottage we rented. Across the street, was ths girl who would whistle at me whenever she saw me... her name in Erin. Well, we became friends that week at the beach and have been writing each other for about 10 years....there was a period of about 2 years we lost contact..but that was a while ago. By the way...Erin lives in Kansas and me in NC. OK, last year in one of her letters, she says that she is coming back to NC to see some of her family who are gonna be there. So I drove about 4 hours to see her. This is where it begins....I spent the whole day with Erin....one of the best days of my life. Even though we had been writing each other, we still had to get used to being in person....she has got to be the most incredible woman I ever met. (She's one year older than me BTW). I mean, no person in the world could ask for a better person. Not only was she incredibly beautiful (not to mention WAY out of my league...although I'm not unattractive mind you), but she had a great personality and a great sence of humor. Her family is one of those families who goes to church but that is about the extent of their Christianity...you know the kind of people. But she knows I am a Christian. Well, you get the idea of what I think of her. If there is ever such a thing as love at first sight....I found it. That was last year...I kid you not when I say that I have thought about her EVERY day since then. In out letters, Erin and I always kid each other about not finding dates..(which is true for me, but I know it can't be for her). She has had some problems at home, her folks split up and she ended up leaving school....Now we are at the present... Let me give you part of the letter I got from her last week.... "Okay, now I'm going to try to explain my life to you. I'm not going to KU anymore because something just isn't right. College just wasn't clicking with me here. Greek life is really big here and that just isn't my way. I wasn't taking any classes that truly interested me & i really have no idea of what i want to do with my life. I was interested in something medical (Physical Therpy) & I love working with kids, but 'it' just didn't work for me at this university. And my parents could tell. "So I'm working full time at the Bass Store [Bass shoes that is] and now I have a part-time job at a local daycare. I work in the infant room M-W-F. I've really enjoyed it so far. It spices up my week a little bit and it's great experience. "As of now, I'm not planning on going back to school in the very near future. The main reason being my indecision on what I want to study. But I definatley plan on going back within the next couple of years. Where? I have no idea--except for one thing, it won't be to Kansas. "Right noew I'm discussing a promotion with my boss and district manager. It looks like I'll train at the store I work at now for about 4-6 months as Assistant Manager and when that's done, I'll basically be given a list of stores (newly or soon to be built) to chose where i would like to manage. I've pretty much decided on either one of the Carolinas (hopeully close to the beach) Wouldn't it be fun to actually see each other more than once every few years?? What do you think abou that? I would like to know your opinion. "This job would pretty much be temporary. But it is VERY GOOD pay and any thye of management experience would look good on an application or resume. The company is solid and treats it employees very well. Good benefits, bonuses & medical plans. Plus- after 1 year of full-time service, they will reimburse tuition. I do have school money waitng for me, but this will help, especially since I will probably end up paying out of state tuition wherever I go. "Chris, i really would like to know what you think of my decision. I respect your opinion. I've been completely lost for what to do for soooo long that when the opportunity came along it sounded really good. I do like my job although I'm about 99.9% sure that i want to do more with my life than reatil management..but it IS something. I don't think earning about $20,000 a year for a 20 year old female is too bad. "Anyway, onto your career decisions. I'll solve your problem right now, MARRY ME... "You can do your pilot thing-- I like to be by myself sometimes! Seriously (or not as seriously)- do what will make you the happiest, worry about the home life later." *********** OK, well I'm sure you see what has got me so uptight. What do you think she meant about the marraige thing?? I dream at night about marrying her, and then she mentions it in her letter!!! I don't know what to think?? Since she wants to move to the Carolina's should i search out a Bass store near here and aske her to come to Carolina??? I always pick on those people who graduate from high school and get married....but what does she mean??? I've had a lot of stress lately with exams and also the fact that I don't date beacause 1) No time 2) Not that much $$ 3) that most college women are wrapped up in the social scene with the Greeks whic as a Christian I can't support-----and here she says she doesn't like the Greek thing either!! Maybe I'm so stunned because there is actually a girl that I am so attracted to paying some real attention to me. I mean, what if she did move to NC...what would I do??? I'm only 19 and she 20....I'm only a Sophmore struggling through classes.. I have prayed about this over the past year from time to time.. saying, "God if she is the right one, let the situation open up.." Could this be my sign??? I would do ANYTHING to get her to NC...here is some moree that makes it worse.. Should I call her?? I'm terrible over the phone. I don't even like to talk to my friends here for longer than 3 minutes. I mean, what would a girl as perfect as her want with a very average guy like me?? I'm really confused....I would really appreciate any help i can get. Thanx Chris
No, you don't understand. I said that I don't think people can discuss the subjective merits of religion objectively. This should be obvious. People here have said that everyone would be better off without religion, but this almost certainly isn't true. But, guns and axes are tools, both of which have been used for murder. Should both be taken away? That is to say, I don't think motto misuse warrants its removal. At least not in this case.
Somewhere, someone told me that Satan was the angel in charge of music in heaven, and on top of that, he was the most beautiful of the angels. Isn't it funny that these days how MTV has become the "bible" of music and beauty these days. MTV controls what bands are popular, no matter how bad they are. In fact, it is better to be politically correct - like U2, Madonna - than to have any musical talent. Then of course, you have this television station that tells us all how to dress. Think about it, who started the retro-fashion craze?? MTV and Madonna. Gag. Anyway, just food for thought. It is really my own wierd theory. If Revelation was to come true today, I think MTV would the "ever changing waters" (music and fashion world) that the beast would arise from, and Madonna will be the whore of Babylon, riding the beast and drinking the blood of the martyrs. Hmmmm....great idea for a book/movie.....
I won't even recommend books from my congregation. What you ask sounds attractive but it is dangerous. As a new Christian you don't want to be contaminated with other people's interpretation. Steep your self in scripture, and discuss with other christians. Read if your must but remember that what other people write is their interpretation. God has promised to give you light, so ask for it. Don't wait too long before attaching yourself to church. Just remember to always compare what they teach you with scripture like the Bereans did.
my $.02 - Yes and No. I do not believe the above scenario is not possible. Either they are believing and living (in at least some part) led by God, else they are not. Believing (intellectually, but waiting(?)) is not enough. Especially important to remember is that no one can judge whether you are so committed, nor can you judge someone else. I guess the closest we can come to know someone's situation is listening to their own statements. This can be fallible, as is our sense of communion one with another. Regarding this passage, we need to remember that this is a letter to a church (at Laodicea), people who are Of the Body of Christ. (Rev.3:14-16) He talks about their works. A translation could say that he says their lack of concern makes him sick (to the point of throwing up). Right, saving is by faith alone, except that faith does not come alone, if you catch the two meanings. I can offer the explanation that Jesus would that we were either "on fire for Him" or so cold we knew we were not in His will and thus could be made aware of our separation. This is admonishment for His children, not eternal damnation.
Um, the header said *career.* Hodapp managed about 3000 PA in his nine years in the majors. As for his "consistently over .300," make that "three years in a row, preceded by a part-time year, plus his last year, with Boston." Hodapp only qualified for the batting title five times. Was he injured? He retired right around his 28th birthday. Anyway, Hodapp put up flashy numbers the year *everybody* put up flashy numbers. That was his only really good year with a bat; his other .300 years were marred by a lack of power and an inability to draw walks. Only 163 of those 3000 PA were bases on balls, which does not describe a feared hitter. On the other hand, he was part of the long line of famous Cleveland 2B: Wambsganss, Riggs Stephenson, etc.
The following is posted for a friend. You can send replies to this email address or call him at 503-752-1499. (Glen) I have a CITIZEN OVERTURE 110 Laser printer for sale. It is in excellent condition. It has been used less than one year on this drum. I am asking $500, but all offers will be considered. Below are some specs on it. Toner lifespan: 2500 pages Drum lifespan: 15,000 pages Resolution: 300 DPI Memory: 512K Emulation: Epson FX286 IBM ProPrinter Diablo 635 Printing Capacity: Quad-density graphics Tray capacity: 250 sheets Reason for sale: Financial--I need to pay tuition. Thanks, -Glen Anderson
I was wondering if anyone knew any changes to the temple ceremony within the last fifty years.... Also, why do you think they were made (revelation, assimilation to mainstream Christianity, etc.)? I know that the God Makers was published quite a while ago. Could rituals have been changed since then? I am also very interested in the influence of Freemasonry on early Mormonism, especially in the Smith family and in the Nauvoo settlement. Info on any new studies would be appreciated. Thanks,
Concerning Christians praying for coporate forgiveness of national sins, Michael Covington claims the following of C.S. Lewis: <>< I was surprised when I heard this same kind of remark from a fellow grad. student I know, especially since he had seminary training. I have read the same essay and do not find Lewis making any such claim. Rather, Lewis is condemning the use of such coporate prayer efforts as platforms to make political jabs at opponents, feigned as confessions of guilt (ie., Lord please forgive us for allowing "insert political issue/idea/platform" to exist in our country, it is wrong and we ask your forgiveness.). I would be interested in knowing what part of the essay you feel condemns national repentance (please quote).
Considerably better than I feel about, say, the Punic Wars, or the Peloponnesian War (spelling optional), or almost any other event in classical history. How close to the events do you think the oldest extent manuscripts are in those cases?
I'm sorry about your friend. Really. But this anecdote does nothing to justify the "war on drugs". If anything, it demonstrates that the "war" is a miserable failure. What it demonstrates is that people will take drugs if they want to, legal or not. Perhaps if your friend were taking legal, regulated drugs under a doctors supervision he might not be in the position he's in now. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ...Dale Cook "Any town having more churches than bars has a serious social problem." ---Edward Abbey The opinions are mine only (i.e., they are NOT my employer's)
----------------------------Original message---------------------------- D"SB Mincha, Tish(a Yamim La(Omer, Yom Chamishi, Y"D b'Nisan ThShN"G; Universita Varsha b'Varsha, Galut HaMara Meod. SHALOM ALL! Those of You visiting The Ghetto City these days might be interested in the following events timetable (abridged): 19:00, Fri., 16th April, '93: Kabbalat Shabbat service at the Nozyk Shul (6 Twarda Street, Warsaw -- a 10 mins' walk from the Palace of Science & Culture: the tallest building in the city's centre, & the same distance from the Central Railway Station). 09:30, Sat., 17th April, " : Shacharit L'Shabbat service, Nozyk Shul. 11:30, Sun., 18th April, " : The Fallen Ones Memorial service, Nozyk Shul. 13:00, Sun., 18th April, " : Memorial Ceremony at the Jewish Cemetery (Okopowa Street, Warsaw). 18:00, Sun., 18th April, " : Official Arts Programme at the Congress Hall (a building adjacent to the Palace of Science & Culture, which -- like the Shul -- is located a quarter's walk from most of downtown hotels: Bristol, Forum, Victoria, Europejski, Holiday Inn, Marriott). 12:00, Mon., 19th April, " : Laying of Wreaths at the Ghetto Heros Monument.
Such as? Not being able to get married isn't a roadblock to a permanent relationship. Lack of a marriage certificate doesn't force a couple to break up. This is an excuse used by homosexuals because the alternative is to ask why they are so much more promiscuous than straights.
Where did you hear this? I seem to have missed it. No. Will L.A. burn? No. (Regardless of the verdict.) Count your blessings.
It depends on your priorities. A lot of people put higher priorities on gas mileage and cost than on safety, buying "unsafe" econoboxes instead of Volvos. I personally take a middle ground -- the only thing I really look for is a three-point seatbelt and 5+mph bumpers. I figure that 30mph collisions into brick walls aren't common enough for me to spend that much extra money for protection, but there are lots of low-speed collisions that do worry me.
With the popularity of minivans, the market room for station wagons is squeezed out. They are not as comfortable as sedan, and don't carry as much as the minivans. This is not to say nobody wants the wagon anymore. But the demand is certainly hampered by the minivan, and may not be economical to build a product for. Jason Chen
Greetings fellow motorcycle roadracing enthusiasts! BACKGROUND ---------- The racing listserver (boogie.EBay.sun.com) contains discussions devoted to racing and racing-related topics. This is a pretty broad interest group. Individuals have a variety of backgrounds: motojournalism, roadracing from the perspective of pit crew and racers, engineering, motosports enthusiasts. The size of the list grows weekly. We are currently at a little over one hundred and eighty-five members, with contributors from New Zealand, Australia, Germany, France, England, Canada Finland, Switzerland, and the United States. The list was formed (October 1991) in response to a perceived need to both provide technical discussion of riding at the edge of performance (roadracing) and to improve on the very low signal-to-noise ratio found in rec.motorcycles. Anyone is free to join. Discussion is necessarily limited by the rules of the list to issues related to racing motorcycles and is to be "flame-free". HOW TO GET THE DAILY DISTRIBUTION --------------------------------- You are welcome to subscribe. To subscribe send your request to: race-request@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM Traffic currently runs between five and twenty-five messages per day (depending on the topic). NB: Please do _not_ send your subscription request to the list directly. After you have contacted the list administrator, you will receive an RSVP request. Please respond to this request in a timely manner so that you can be added to the list. The request is generated in order to insure that there is a valid mail pathway to your site. Upon receipt of your RSVP, you will be added to either the daily or digest distribution (as per your initial request). HOW TO GET THE DIGEST DISTRIBUTION ---------------------------------- It is possible to receive the list in 'digest'ed form (ie. a single email message). The RoadRacing Digest is mailed out whenever it contains enough interesting content. Given the frequency of postings this appears to be about every other day. Should you wish to receive the list via digest (once every 30-40K or so), please send a subscription request to: digest-request@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM HOW TO POST TO THE LIST ----------------------- This is an open forum. To post an article to the list, send to: race@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM Depending on how mail is set up at your site you may or may not see the mail that you have posted. If you want to see it (though this isn't necessarily a guarantee that it went out) you can include a "metoo" line in your .mailrc file (on UNIX based mail systems). BOUNCES ------- Because I haven't had the time (or the inclination to replace the list distribution mechanism) we still have a problem with bounces returning to the poster of a message. Occasionally, sites or users go off-line (either leaving their place of employment prematurely or hardware problems) and you will receive bounces from the race list. Check the headers carefully, and if you find that the bounce originated at Sun (from whence I administer this list) contact me through my administration hat (race-request@boogie.EBay.sun.com). If not, ignore the bounce. OTHER LISTS ----------- Two-strokes: 2strokes@microunity.com Harleys: harley-request@thinkage.on.ca or uunet!watmath!thinkage!harley-request European bikes: majordomo@onion.rain.com (in body of message write: subscribe euro-moto) thanks, be seeing you, Rich (race list administrator) rich@boogie.EBay.Sun.COM
Hi, I've just replaced my existing DTC SCSI controller with an Adaptec 1542B, and am now having trouble restoring from a Jumbo 250 tape drive. I had no trouble installing the Adaptec and DOS recognises both the SCSI drive and an existing IDE drive - however when I went to restore the backups from the Jumbo tape I found that it was extremely slow (estimated time 3 mins actual time 15 min!) I have no trouble restoring from the same tape to the IDE drive. I seem to remember reading that some settings had to be changed to enable the Jumbo drive and the Adaptec to work together but I can't find any mention of it in the manuals. My system config is: i486DX/33 4Mb Adaptec 1542B running 180Mb Fujitsu SCSI IDE Controller running 200Mb IDE Jumbo 250 running off floppy controller on IDE Any help would be appreciated Thanks, Ron. (ronaldm@extro.ucc.su.oz.au) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ron Mastus ronaldm@extro.ucc.su.oz.au 41 Mariposa Rd Phone +61 2 ???-???? (work) Bilgola Plateau 2107 +61 2 918-8152 (home) Australia --
Hi from Australia, I am a car enthusiast in Australia. I am particularly interested in American Muscle cars of the 1960s and 1970s. ALL MAKES: AMC, Ford, Chrysler/Mopar, GM. I will be in the USA for 6 weeks from May 2nd to -June 14 1993. Chicago: Sun May 2 -Thursday May 6 Denver: Friday May 7 - Sunday May 9 Austin, Texas: Monday May 10- Friday May 21 Oklahoma City: Friday May 21 - Monday May 24 Anaheim, California: Tuesday May 25-Thursday May 27 Las Vegas, Nevada: Friday May 28- Sunday May 30 Grand Canion, Monday May 31 - Tuesday June 1 Las Angeles, San Diego and vicinity: Wednesday June 3-Sunday June 6 June South Lake Tahoe, Cal: Sunday June 6 - Wednesday June 9 Reno: Thursday June 10 San Fransisco: Thursday June 10 - Sunday June 13 I was wondering if anyone could send me any information of car shows, swap meets, drag meets, model car shows etc. during this period. Can anybody tell me when the Pomona Swap meet is on this year? Also, any places to visit (eg. car museums, private collections, your collection? etc. Any bit of information is appreciated! I am also interested in finding some model cars (scale Models). I am intersted in 1968-1974 AMC cars. Of particular interest is: 1968-1970 AMX 1968-1974 Javelin 1969 SCRAMBLER 1970 Rebel Machine and others If you have any kits, plastics, diecast etc and are interested in selling them, tell me, I will be interested. I can also send/bring you models of Australian High performance cars if you are interested. Please reply by email to: johnt@spri.levels.unisa.edu.au Thanks,
What position does Mike Lansing play? I cannot seem to find it anywhere. Thanks!!!!1 K--> --
Yo' Joe, why don't you post what you really think? If there are any rational BMWMOA folks left out there, may the rest of us please have a brief summary of the current state of affairs in your esteemed organization, together with an historical outline of how you got to the above contretemps? Points will be deducted for shouting or bulging veins in the temple area.
Assuming you are presenting it accurately, I don't see how this argument really leads to any firm conclusion. The material in John (I'm not sure exactly what is referred to here, but I'll take for granted the similarity to the Matt./Luke "Q" material) IS different; hence, one could have almost any relationship between the two, right up to John getting it straight from Jesus' mouth. The version of the "usual theory" I have heard has Matthew and Luke independently relying on Mark and "Q". One would think that if Luke relied on Matthew, we wouldn't have the grating inconsistencies in the geneologies, for one thing. This is the part that is particularly new to me. If it were possible that you could point me to a reference, I'd be grateful. Because it closes up the gap between (supposed) writing and the existing copy quit a bit. The further away from the original, the more copies can be written, and therefore survival becomes more probable. I'm not really impressed with the "theology" argument. But I'm really pointing this out as an "if". And as I pointed out earlier, one cannot make these arguments about I Peter; I see no reason not to accept it as an authentic letter. The best analogy would be reporters talking to the participants, which is not so bad. But the statement of divinity is not in that section, and in any case, it's agreed that the most important epistles predate Mark.
Nope, Germany has extremely restrictive citizenship laws. The ethnic Germans who have lived in Russia for over 100 years automatically become citizens if they move to Germany, but the Turks who are now in their third generation in Germany can't. It's not a very good example to show citizenship without descent. Karl -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOMEONE PLEASE BUY THESE BOOKS!!!!! I AM NOT ASKING MUCH!!!!!! JUST MAKE ME AN OFFER AND I WILL PROBABLY TAKE IT!!!!! * Calculus w/ Analytic Geometry by Authur B. Simon (copyright date 1982), below avg condition but still readable! * Writing good software in Fortran, Graham Smith. * The Holt Handbook by Kirszner & Mandell (copyright 1986) 720+ page writing guide. * Algebra & Trigonometry, A problem Solving Approach, 3rd edition by W. Flemming and D. Varberg. Very good condition. * General Chemistry Principles & Modern Applications, R. Petrucci, fourth edition. Big Book! Very good condition! * Solutions manual for Chemistry book. Paperback. * Study guide for Chemistry book. Paperback. Send me your offers via email at 02106@chopin.udel.edu
: Regardless of people's hidden motivations, the stated reasons for many : wars include religion. Of course you can always claim that the REAL : reason was economics, politics, ethnic strife, or whatever. But the : fact remains that the justification for many wars has been to conquer : the heathens. : If you want to say, for instance, that economics was the chief cause : of the Crusades, you could certainly make that point. But someone : could come along and demonstrate that it was REALLY something else, in : the same manner you show that it was REALLY not religion. You could : in this manner eliminate all possible causes for the Crusades. : Scott, I don't have to make outrageous claims about religion's affecting and effecting history, for the purpsoe of a.a, all I have to do point out that many claims made here are wrong and do nothing to validate atheism. At no time have I made any statement that religion was the sole cause of anything, what I have done is point out that those who do make that kind of claim are mistaken, usually deliberately. To credit religion with the awesome power to dominate history is to misunderstand human nature, the function of religion and of course, history. I believe that those who distort history in this way know exaclty what they're doing, and do it only for affect.
[most of post deleted] There is an easy way out.... Post the flyers on the stall doors, but add at the bottom, in nice large capitals, EMERGENCY TOILET PAPER :)
I have and use xrecplay for X11R5. Does one exist for X11R4??? I have tried to contact one of the developers, Eric Swildens, at ess@hal.com but he is no longer there and has no forwarding email address. Archie is no help either. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks,
In spite of my great respect for the people you speak of, I think their cost estimates are a bit over-optimistic. If nothing else, a working SSTO is at least as complex as a large airliner and has a smaller experience base. It therefore seems that SSTO development should cost at least as much as a typical airliner development. That puts it in the $3G to $5G range. True it and the contest would result in a much larger market. But I don't think it would be enough to attract the investors given the risks involved. If you could gurantee the SSTO costs and gurantee that it captures 100% of the available launch market, then I think you could do it. Allen
I have a quick question regarding the Rockwell Chipset that's`come out relatively recently--It supports v.32, v.32bis, v.42, Group III Fax, and so on... However, I heard there are bugs in the chipset. I know someone that has a ZOOM 14.4 Modem that uses the chipset, and he hasn't had a problem. What's the word on the chipset? Is this a ROM bug specific to a specific brand using the Rockwell, or is it the Rockwell chipset itself? And, if it is the Rockwell chipset, what are the chances that if I buy one of these modems (using the Rockwell chipset), that a) the bug will affect me, b) a ROM change will fix/compensate for the bug? Please send responses via email... --Joe Zbiciak im14u2c@cegt201.bradley.edu / im14u2c@camelot.bradley.edu -- Joseph Zbiciak im14u2c@camelot.bradley.edu [====Disclaimer--If you believe any of this, check your head!====] ------------------------------------------------------------------
I think the next time I post something like this, I obviously need to make the sarcasm a bit more obvious... chuck
In this era of AIDS, isn't someone's fucking *everyone's* interest? (semi :-)) I propose "We have no motto." Recently in the glorious state of Maryland (the only state whose state song refers to Abraham Lincoln as a tyrant), people have gotten all wound up over the state motto (which we inherited from the Calverts): "Fatti Maschii, Parole Femine" which, if you read Italian, says, "Manly deeds, womanly words" or something to that effect. In the state which not so long ago had four women out of seven representatives, this represents a problem. The official solution was to change the translation, so now it means: "Strong deeds, gentle words" My personal suggestion was changing it to "walk softly and carry a big stick."
The HC711 is an EPROM version of the HC11. Raw HC11 parts have factory set ROM images, and as such are useless to the hobbyist. HC811 parts have EEPROM, allowing for electrical erasure and reprogramming. Some Motorola parts (such as the HC705K1) have EPROM, making them user programmable, but come with options of either windowed or sealed. The more expensive windowed packages allow multiple use, the plastic dip varieties are one-time programmable, since there is no way of exposing the EPROM array to light. JohnH ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | _ |_ _ |_| _ _| _| Electronics Department |_| (_) | | | | | | (_| (_| (_| \/ School of MPCE ---------------------------------/- Macquarie University Sydney, AUSTRALIA 2109 Email: johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au, Ph: +61 2 805 8959, Fax: +61 2 805 8983
I'd like this too... maybe you should post an answer key after a while? Nanci
This is a test. Thanks.
[intermediate reply suggesting cable switch deleted] I hate to burst your bubble but you cannot "slip in a B:" to that particular AMI BIOS setting. That setting only allows you to set the *boot order* of the floppy A: with respect to the primary HD C:, i.e., check A: first, then C: or check C:, then A:.
I'm not sure on the older bikes, but the Yamaha Virago 535 has spec'd seat height of 27.6 in. and the Honda Shadow 27.2 in.
When I run our RS6000's "info" utility through a remote login shell (rlogin) from my Sun Sparc 1+, I can no longer type lower case in any of info's window prompt's. I thought the prob. may have been due to my Sun window mgr. (Openlook) being incompatible with the AIX Motif application but I tried it under TVTWM also. Same result. So this is presumably an X11 key definition problem between workstations - but my system admins. feign ignorance. What do I need to do the be able to type lower case into this remote AIX motif app. from within my local Openlook window manager? --
Cannondale 3.0 Road Bike 56 cm Bright Blue Color Dura Ace 8 speed not STI, could be easily converted though. 32 spoke wheelset, clinchers. Complete Bike $700 or best offer. All offers will be considered this bike has to go. Desperate times call for desperate measures. Will consider parting out, write for details.
You somehow missed Nabil's comments, even though you included it in your followup: >The number which could have arrived to the Holy Lands must have been >substantially less ude to the harsh desert and the killings between the >Jewish tribes on the way.. I am not aware of "killings between Jewish tribes" in the desert. The point of "typical thinking" here is that while Arabs STILL TODAY act in the manner you describe, like "any nomadic people occupying a land", killing and plundering each other with regularity, others have somehow progressed over time. It is not surprising then that Arabs often accuse others (infidels) of things that they are quite familiar with: civil rights violations, religious discrimination, ethnic cleansing, land theft, torture and murder. It is precisely this mechanism at work that leads people to say that Jewish tribes were killing each other in the desert, even without support for such a ludicrous suggestion.
Once again, the Rockies bullpen fell apart. Andy Ashby pitched six (somewhat shaky) innings giving up just one run. Then game the dreaded relief. Three picthers combined to give up 3 runs (one each I believe) in the 7th inning and blew the save opportunity. (Final was 4-2 vs Expos). Despite their problems in the pen, I think the Rockies are a team that wont be taken lightly. Going into today's game, the had the league's leading hitter and RBI man (Galarraga), two of the leaders in stolen bases (Young and Cole) and increasingly strong starting pitching. -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- David Rex Wood -- davewood@cs.colorado.edu -- University of Colorado at Boulder
Yes, Take Interstate I-70 to the route 48 exit. Go south on 48 about 2-1/2 miles. Trun right on Shiloh Springs Road. The hamvention is at the Harrah arena, which is about 1 mile west and on the north side of the Road. Parking at the arena is limited. Lodging is probably entirely booked-up within a 40 mile radius. Good luck. | | 48 I75 | | ----------I70----------....--------- | | | | X | | (mall) --------| | S. Springs | It is possible to park at the mall to the west. There are shuttle busses running between the arena and the mall. If possible, get a Montgomery County, OH map from your local AAA office. It should be free if you are an AAA member. If you don't already have definite plans, now is not a particularly good time to start to think about going to the hamvention.
I have a HP 1740 scope that (I think) has a problem in the HV section. Symptom: started turning on and off on its own, making intermittant bright flashes on the CRT, and then finally, passed away. If you have a manual (or any suggestions), please send me mail. Will gladly pay reproduction/shipping costs plus a little $ for your efforts for the manual. Thanks in advance. --- Jeff
I am involved with a Michigan company that has an application requiring wireless data transfer. If you have expertise or information that may assist us in this project, please contact me (INTERNET: leblanc@cvm.msu. edu).
***** IBM GAMES FOR SALE OR TRADE ***** o ADVENTURE Eric the Unready -- Legend -- $35 King's Quest V -- Sierra -- CD-ROM edition -- $35 o SPORTS Michael Jordan In Flight -- Electronic Arts -- $35 Mike Ditka's Ultimate Football -- Accolade -- $30 David Ledbetter's Greens -- Microprose -- $30 o STRATEGY Risk -- Virgin -- $10 This software comes with all original packaging and manuals. Price includes ground shipping to continental US. I will trade for current games; send me your list... --
Yes. As long as the goverment over there can force some authority and prevent terrorists attack against Israel. Sinai had several big cities that were avcuated when isreal gave it back to Egypth, but for a peace agreement. So it is my opinin that the settlers will not be an obstacle for withdrawal as long it is combined with a real peace agreement with the Arabs and the Palastinians. Naftaly
Hi !!! Is there somebody using a 56001 DSP from Motorola ??? I am searching for programms concerning audio effects. I built a 4 channel mixer (4ADC + 1DSP) for audio signals. I built some digital filters and echos, but now i want to include some effects like HARMONIC Equalizer or chorus. The problem is, I dont know how these effects work (so I cant write a programm). So if someone has programms or just knows how such effects work, please contact me in the newsgroup or via e-mail. (Also if there are books about this problem)
This is becoming a tiresome statement. Coming from you it is a definition, not an assertion: Islam is good. Belief in Islam is good. Therefore, being a believer in Islam can produce only good...because Islam is good. Blah blah blah. That's about as circular as it gets, and equally meaningless. To say that something produces only good because it is only good that it produces is nothing more than an unapplied definition. And all you're application is saying that it's true if you really believe it's true. That's silly. Conversely, you say off-handedly that _anything_ can happen under atheism. Again, just an offshoot of believe-it-and-it-becomes-true- don't-believe-it-and-it-doesn't. Like other religions I'm aquainted with, Islam teaches exclusion and caste, and suggests harsh penalties for _behaviors_ that have no logical call for punishment (certain limits on speech and sex, for example). To me this is not good. I see much pain and suffering without any justification, except for the _waving of the hand_ of some inaccessible god. By the by, you toss around the word knowledgable a bit carelessly. For what is a _knowledgeable believer_ except a contradiction of terms. I infer that you mean believer in terms of having faith. And If you need knowledge to believe then faith has nothing to do with it, does it?
When are the Yankees planning on activating Melido Perez? His 15 days on the DL are up today, but are they bringing him back this weekend?
Don't worry about leaks. Don't worry about which way to turn the damn thing. Take a good claw hammer and pry it straight out. Now, you'll notice, after all the oil pours out, that there are no theads where there used to be.
Avi, For your information, Islam permits freedom of religion - there is no compulsion in religion. Does Judaism permit freedom of religion (i.e. are non-Jews recognized in Judaism). Just wondering.
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary ______________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 15, 1993 REMARKS BY THE PRESIDENT TO LAW ENFORCEMENT ORGANIZATIONS The Rose Garden 2:52 P.M. EDT THE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, two months ago I presented a comprehensive plan to reduce our national deficit and to increase our investment in the American people, their jobs and their economic future. The federal budget plan passed Congress in record time, and created a new sense of hope and opportunity in the country. Then, the short-term jobs plan I presented to Congress, which would create a half a million jobs in the next two years passed the House of Representatives two weeks ago. It now has the support of a majority of the United States Senate. All of these members of Congress know it's time to get the economy moving again, to get job growth going again, to get a fast start on the investments we need to build a lasting prosperity. Unfortunately, a minority of the members of the United States Senate have used gridlock tactics to prevent their colleagues from working the will of the majority on the jobs bill. When Congress returns, I ask every senator from every state and from both parties to remember what is at stake. The issue is not politics, it's people. Sixteen million of them are looking for full-time jobs and can't find them. These men and women don't care about who's up or down in Washington. They care about paying the rent and meeting the mortgage payment, about putting food on the table and buying shoes for their children, about regaining a sense of dignity that comes from doing a day's work and supporting their families and drawing a paycheck. They're asking those of us who have the privilege of serving to put aside politics and do something now to move our economy forward. I am prepared to do that. And I have been working with the Senate to come up with an adjusted package that meets some of the concerns of those who have been blocking action on the jobs plan. I'm willing to compromise, so long as we keep the focus on jobs, keep the focus on growth and keep the focus on meeting unmet national needs. Our opponents have been asking for a smaller package. Today I ask them to join me in determining exactly what kind and what size package Congress can approve that actually meets the needs of the American people. But even as we make those reductions and the package will be smaller, I believe we must address problems that are on the minds of millions of Americans, and one in particular, and that is the need to toughen law enforcement in our society to deal with the dramatic rise in violent crime. So I will ask, even in this reduced package, for an additional $200 million in federal funding to help local communities to rehire police officers who have been laid off because of the fiscal problems caused by the national recession. Together, with a matching effort by local governments, this could put as many as 10,000 police officers back on the job, and back on the beat in communities all across our nation. At a time when too many of our people live in fear of violent crime, when too many businesses have closed and too many people have lost their jobs because people are afraid to leave their homes, rehiring thousands of officers is one of the best investments America can make. And I ask both Houses of Congress to make that investment in our people's safety and in their piece of mind. I believe in the need for strong federal action to keep the economy going toward recovery and to create jobs. Make no mistake about it: I will fight for these priorities as hard as I ever have. I will never forget that the people sent me here to fight for their jobs, their future and for fundamental change. I want to thank the police officers who are here today and tell you that not a single one of them knew before they came here that I had determined to ask for more money in this jobs bill to rehire police officers. They came here because they believe in the summer jobs portion of the package. And I want them to be free to talk about that. They came here not out of any law enforcement concern other than the fact that they wanted the kids in this country to have a chance to have jobs this summer, to have safer streets and a brighter and more peaceful future. I say what I say today not just because it's good for law enforcement but because it's good for the people who live in these communities. I have always supported community policing not only because it helps to prevent crime and to lower the crime rate, but because it cements better relationships between people in law enforcement and the people that they're hired to protect. It reduces the chances of abusive action by police officers and increases the chances of harmony and safe streets at the same time. These are the kinds of things that we are trying to do. I promised in my campaign that I'd do everything I could to put another 100,000 police officers on the street over the next four years. This makes a good downpayment on that. This keeps in mind the core of the jobs package. And this will help us to move forward. So I ask the people in the Senate who have blocked the jobs bill, let's work together. I can accept a reduced package if you will increase your commitment to safe streets. I do not accept the fact that we should reduce our commitment to summer jobs or to building our infrastructure or to doing those other things that will create real and lasting prosperity for our people. I have done my part now to end the gridlock; I ask you to do yours. I want now to give the people who are here with me on the platform a chance to make some remarks and to be heard by the American people -- beginning with Janet Reno, the distinguished Attorney General. * * * * * * * * * * * * Q Mr. President, can you tell us -- do you think that the jobs package could be put in further jeopardy by controversy over the suggestion of a VAT tax at this point in the congressional dialogue? THE PRESIDENT: Not at all. I think it should have -- they wouldn't have any relationship one to the other. First of all, I made absolutely no decision on that. You should know that there's a lot of support in the business community and the labor community -- people have asked us to consider that because of the enormous burden of the present system on many of our major employers, particularly many of those that we depend upon to generate jobs and to carry the strength of this economy. But I have made absolutely no decision that would even approach that on that or any other kind of general tax. Q Do you personally believe that the American public is ready to pay for -- to have another tax to pay for health care? I mean, apart from what business and labor leaders have said -- THE PRESIDENT: I'm not going to speculate on that. I will say this: The real issue is how quickly we can recycle the benefits of all the savings to cover the cost. I mean, that is -- everyone knows that if you do what we're proposing to do, if you streamline the insurance system, if you fix the system so that there's no longer an enormous economic incentive to over-utilize or over-provide certain services, if you provide primary and preventive care in places where it isn't now, every single analysis shows absolutely massive savings to the health care system. The real question is whether you can transfer those savings to cover those who have no coverage now or those who have virtually no coverage so that you provide people the security. I have no idea. The polls say that, but I don't know. All I know is the polls that I see in the press that many of you have commissioned, they say overwhelmingly the American people want the security of an affordable health care system. But I don't think that has anything to do with this stimulus, and it certainly shouldn't have. People want a job first and foremost. They want that more than anything else. Q Now that you've announced your willingness to compromise on the stimulus package, can you tell us what parts of your package you consider vital and uncompromisable? I assume summer jobs is one. THE PRESIDENT: I want the summer jobs; I want the highway program and I want the police program. I still intend -- let me say this: I still intend to fully and aggressively push the crime bill, which did not pass the Congress last year. This is a supplement to that, not a substitute for it in any way. But I think we need to do that. I think we need the Ryan White funds because of the enormous health care burdens to the communities that are inordinately and disproportionately affected by the problems of caring for people with AIDS. And there are several other things that I think should be done. We have to do the Agriculture Department meat inspectors; the safety of the public depends on that. There are a number of other things that I don't -- I don't think any of it should be cut, but I have given Senator Mitchell and Senator Byrd -- I talked to them. And Senator Dole called me yesterday to discuss this, and I told him that I would call him back. I called him back last night in New Hampshire and we discussed this. And I basically asked them to talk today, and said that I would not make any statements about any specifics until at least they had a chance to talk to see whether or not they could reach some accord. So I don't want to be any more specific than I have been already, and let's see if they can talk it out. Q When you talked to Senator Dole and Senator Mitchell did you tell them about your -- increase also, that $200 million, that you want that as part of the package? THE PRESIDENT: I did -- I told Senator -- I left word for Senator Mitchell last night about it. When I talked to Senator Dole -- I don't remember for sure -- I do not believe I mentioned it. But I did tell him that I was prepared to reduce the package and I wanted to break the gridlock, and I told him that I was working on a reformulation of it so that -- in the hope that it would become even more focused on jobs and the kinds of issues that I thought the American people wanted us to address. And this is certainly consistent with that. Thank you.
I need to write an application which does annotation notes on existing documents. The annotation could be done several times by different people. The idea is something like having several acetate transparencies stacked on top of each other so that the user can see through all of them. I've seen something like this being done by the oclock client. Could someone please tell me how to do it in Xt? Thank you very much.
Perhaps it is because witnesses who have left the compound have all testified that the BATF shot first, they they did not identify themselves before tossing in concussion grenades (not that anyone inside could have _heard_ such identification after being near a concussion grenade) and the announcement from the BATF that they have sealed the warrant under which they were operating - which was a _search_ warrant, by the way, _not_ an arrest warrant. In short, perhaps because the BATF is wildly out of control and perhaps calmer heads have realized that bombing a compound full of woman and children will not improve their position. There is a real chance that Koresh will be able to prove self-defense in court. That will leave - what? - four officers dead and no one to blame but the BATF. Followups directed to alt.activism, where the discussion has raged nearly as long as the seige, and which shows every sign of not giving up nearly as soon. Larry Smith (smith@ctron.com) No, I don't speak for Cabletron. Need you ask?
I suppose a foul ball machine (like Brett Butler) is pretty valuable, but I'd rather watch (and root for) the lower OBP guys who can actually hit the ball. And I'd rather watch (and root for) a team that scores lots of runs and wins games. Of course, I'm rooting for the Rockies and Andres anyway. But that's for irrational hometown reaons. I also root for Frank Thomas. :)
Well, there *is* a difference. I don't happen to have my SAE manual handy, but oil viscosity in general _decreases_ with temperature. The SAE numbers are based on a `typical' curve that oils used to all have, running from (say) the viscosity of a room-temperature 90-weight at 0C, down to (say) that of a room-temperature 5-weight at 20C, for a typical 40-weight oil. Oils that are designed for operation in `normal' temperatures just have a weight specification. Oils that are designed for operation in exceedingly cold temperatures have a `W' tacked on the end, so in winter in a cold place, you'd stick 10W in your car in the winter and 40 in it in the summer, to approximate the appropriate viscosity throughout the year. Modern multi-viscosity oils change viscosity much less with temperature. As a result, their viscosity graphs cross over several curves. A multi-vis specification pegs the curve at two temperatures, a `normal' operating temperature and a `cold' one (though I can't remember the numbers...). In any event, the weights do indicate a significant difference. Remember that your engine is temperature-regulated (by the thermostat and radiator or air fins) most of the time -- unless you overheat it or something. Any weight of oil is better than no oil, or than very old, carbonized oil. Thin oil won't (in general) lubricate as well at temperature, thicker oil will (like a 20W50) will lubricate better at temperature, but not as well during startup, when most engine wear occurs. If you're planning on making long drives, the 20W50 is probably fine (esp. in the summer) in your 10W40 car. But if you're making short drives, stick to the 10W40.
<tale of bike-eating-devil-dog deleted> Come to Louisiana where it is LEGAL to carry concealed weapons on a bike! ----===== DoD #8177 = Technician(Dr. Speed) .NOT. Student =====----
Gremilins have attacked my keyboard and the correction to my followup on audio relays got fouled up. Varying lamp resistance, should read, "Varying lamp voltage" -- 73, Tom ================================================================================ Tom Wagner, Audio Visual Technician. Malaspina College Nanaimo British Columbia (604)753-3245, Loc 2230 Fax:755-8742 Callsign:VE7GDA Weapon:.45 Kentucky Rifle Snail mail to: Site Q4, C2. RR#4, Nanaimo, British Columbia, Canada, V9R 5X9
I thought that Walt Weiss was jewish. I seem to recall this was mentioned once while he was still at Oakland. Also, I have my suspicions about Esther Canseco (nee Haddad).
I just noticed that my halogen table lamp runs off 12 Volts. The big thinngy that plugs into the wall says 12 Volts DC, 20mA The question is: Can I trickle charge the battery on my CB650 with it? I don't know the rating of the battery, but it is a factory intalled one. Thanks, Sanjay -- '81 CB650 DoD #1224
Mr. Freeman: Please find something more constructive to do with your time rather than engaging in fantasy..... Not that I have a particular affinty to Arafat or anything. John
From: <tom> Subject: computer cult From scott Fri Apr 23 16:31:21 1993 Received: by igc.apc.org (4.1/Revision: 1.77 ) id AA16121; Fri, 23 Apr 93 16:31:09 PDT Date: Fri, 23 Apr 93 16:31:09 PDT Message-Id: <9304232331.AA16121@igc.apc.org> From: Scott Weikart <scott> Sender: scott To: cdplist Subject: Next stand-off? Status: R Redwood City, CA (API) -- A tense stand-off entered its third week today as authorities reported no progress in negotiations with charismatic cult leader Steve Jobs. Negotiators are uncertain of the situation inside the compound, but some reports suggest that half of the hundreds of followers inside have been terminated. Others claim to be staying of their own free will, but Jobs' persuasive manner makes this hard to confirm. In conversations with authorities, Jobs has given conflicting information on how heavily prepared the group is for war with the industry. At times, he has claimed to "have hardware which will blow anything else away", while more recently he claims they have stopped manufacturing their own. Agents from the ATF (Apple-Taligent Forces) believe that the group is equipped with serious hardware, including 486-caliber pieces and possibly Canon equipment. The siege has attracted a variety of spectators, from the curious to other cultists. Some have offered to intercede in negotiations, including a young man who will identify himself only as "Bill" and claims to be the "MS-iah". Former members of the cult, some only recently deprogrammed, speak hesitantly of their former lives, including being forced to work 20-hour days, and subsisting on Jolt and Twinkies. There were frequent lectures in which they were indoctrinated into a theory of "interpersonal computing" which rejects traditional roles. Late-night vigils on Chesapeake Drive are taking their toll on federal marshals. Loud rock and roll, mostly Talking Heads, blares throughout the night. Some fear that Jobs will fulfill his own apocalyptic prophecies, a worry reinforced when the loudspeakers carry Jobs' own speeches -- typically beginning with a chilling "I want to welcome you to the 'Next World' ".
I've read about more than a few of these programs that ran into problems in convincing parents to get their children immunized even when they were delivered to their doorstep. (I don't know, maybe that sheet they have to be informed of about possible risks, side- effects, and bad reactions scares them.)
This is definitely the wrong newsgroup for this, but never mind. Any machine powered by heat (motor, steam- or gasturbine, steamengine, thermoelement,etc) work the better, the bigger the temperature difference between input and output is. Because You never get all thermic energy out of the powering medium (steam, burning gaz, etc), You have to eliminate the rest of the energy to keep the efficency high. A thermal electric power plant (coal, oil or atomic power) works just the same way. You heat water (steam) to power the turbine and generators. Because You don't get the whole energy out of the steam (efficency is never 100%) You have to cool down this steam again by something else. Most power plants use cooling towers for this purpose (some type of mega-refrigerator...). Others use water of a river (ecologically not unobjectionable). Got it ? Cheers Robert (HB9NBY)
Who compared Quayle to Gore? Mark said he had never heard of any incident in which the thrower of the ceremonial ball had been booed before. I mentioned another incident. (And if the media had a liberal bias, I'm sure he would have heard of the Quayle incident.) If I was to compare Quayle to anyone, it most likely would be Elmer Fudd.
I have had good luck with my Ranger and Yokohama 371 S+M tires. The tires have been wearing well and even the few times i have hauled heavy loads they have done well.
What, pray tell, does this mean? Just who exactly is *they*? You mean "they" as in people who do not blindly swallow every piece of propoganda they are given? Or "they" as in NOKD (not our kind, dear). Or "they" as in an appeal to some audience that is supposed to implicitly know and understand? Read: I do not know what the fuck I'm talking about, and am not eager to make a fool of myself. From a pragmatic standpoint, there certainly is some justification if it is a vice people will commit anyway. Shall we criminalize alcohol again? If the re-legalization for alcohol were done from anything other than the pragmatic standpoint, I'd be happy to hear about it. The fact is that it wasn't. Only the first one make any sense. There is nothing to "legalize" about all the rest. Just in case you haven't made the connection (which I expect you haven't) the connecting theme in this thread is a persons autonomy over their life and body. Vice statutes serve only to make it more expensive for the rich and more dangerous for the poor, as Tim so eloquently put it. People will, however, take autonomy over their lives, regardless of what the government says. And why, pray tell, is AIDS "victim" in snear quotes? Are you of the revisionist sort that thinks there is no such thing as the AIDS plauge? Or do they just deserve it? --
rubberized undercoating for this. -- Von Welch (vwelch@ncsa.uiuc.edu) NCSA Networking Development Group '93 CBR600F2 '78 KZ650 '83 Subaru GL 4WD
As applied to servers, the first three are fuzzy terms. "multi-headed" tends to be used for any system with multiple monitors, sometimes even multiple screens even if they're multiplexed onto the same monitor (eg, a Sun with a cg4 display). "multi-screen" and "multi-display" would, if taken strictly, mean different things, but since the strict meaning of "multi-display" would refer to a system with multiple keyboards and pointers, when it's used it probably refers to the same thing "multi-screen" would: a system that provides multiple Screens. "zaphod" is a term applied to the way the MIT server switches the pointer from one screen to another by sliding it off the side of the screen. There is a protocol limitation that restricts a given Display to at most 255 Screens. I know of no server that handles multiple Displays on a single invocation, unless possibly my kludges to the R4 server can be looked upon as such; on a TCP-based system there is necessarily a limit of 65535 Displays per machine, but this is not a limitation inherent to X. What you read was most likely talking about a limit in some particular implementation (probably the MIT one). If it claimed there was a limit of 12 inherent to X, the author of the article had no business writing about X. der Mouse
Sorry, I was, but I somehow have misplaced my diskette from the last couple of months or so. However, thanks to the efforts of Bobby, it is being replenished rather quickly! Here is a recent favorite: -- "Satan and the Angels do not have freewill. They do what god tells them to do. " S.N. Mozumder (snm6394@ultb.isc.rit.edu) -- "Satan and the Angels do not have freewill. They do what god tells them to do. "
Sure you can have everything, if by "everything" you mean fast straight line performance AND handling - present day liter sport bikes have more horsepower and have faster 0-60 and 1/4 mile times than the V-max... Plus, they corner just a bit better... Very true. Randy Davis Email: randy@megatek.com ZX-11 #00072 Pilot {uunet!ucsd}!megatek!randy DoD #0013
Alan, don't forget, a HUGE cost for airliner developement is FAA certification. the joke is when the paperwork exceeds teh weight of the airplane, it will fly. The SR-71, and teh X-15 both highly ambitious aero-space projects were done on very narrow engineering budgets. Partly because they didn't spend much on paper pushing. There is some company in missouri trying to get funding to build light commercial transporters on a low cost basis, mostly by reducing FAA certification costs.
Around here, even mentioning the DoD without a number in your .sig can get you soundly FAQed. Notice, however, that I myself did not FAQ the careful monk. He was, after all, waiting to press return. Jack Waters II DoD#1919
Hi there, I think it is time to create a MS DOS 6.0 FAQ since lots of questions about it are actually flooding the net. I won't be able to write it my self because of the lack of time/knowledge/experience.
If you're thinking of reactive polymers they're making ESD safe contauiners out of it. As far as being conductive goes anything with a resistance less than 10 to the fouthrth power ohms per cubic measure is classed as conductive per MIL-STD-1686 for ESD protection. My $0.02 ($0.016 US).
MLB Standings and Scores for Friday, April 16th, 1993 (including yesterday's games) NATIONAL WEST Won Lost Pct. GB Last 10 Streak Home Road San Francisco Giants 06 04 .600 -- 6-4 Won 1 03-01 03-03 Houston Astros 05 04 .556 0.5 5-4 Lost 1 00-03 05-01 Atlanta Braves 06 05 .545 0.5 5-5 Lost 2 03-03 03-02 Colorado Rockies 03 05 .375 2.0 3-5 Won 1 03-03 00-02 Los Angeles Dodgers 03 07 .300 3.0 3-7 Lost 4 00-03 03-04 San Diego Padres 02 07 .222 3.5 2-7 Lost 4 00-04 02-03 Cincinnati Reds 02 07 .222 3.5 2-7 Lost 3 01-02 01-05 NATIONAL EAST Philadelphia Phillies 08 01 .889 -- 8-1 Won 5 05-01 03-00 Pittsburgh Pirates 07 02 .778 1.0 7-2 Won 4 03-02 04-00 St. Louis Cardinals 07 02 .778 1.0 7-2 Won 3 04-02 03-00 New York Mets 04 04 .500 3.5 4-4 Lost 1 02-03 02-01 Chicago Cubs 04 05 .444 4.0 4-5 Won 1 01-02 03-03 Montreal Expos 04 05 .444 4.0 4-5 Won 1 01-02 03-03 Florida Marlins 03 06 .333 5.0 3-6 Won 1 02-04 01-02 AMERICAN WEST Won Lost Pct. GB Last 10 Streak Home Road Texas Rangers 06 02 .750 -- 6-2 Lost 1 04-02 02-00 California Angels 05 02 .714 0.5 5-2 Won 3 03-02 02-00 Chicago White Sox 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Won 1 02-03 02-01 Minnesota Twins 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Lost 1 01-02 03-02 Oakland Athletics 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Lost 2 04-02 00-02 Seattle Mariners 04 04 .500 2.0 4-4 Lost 1 03-02 01-02 Kansas City Royals 02 07 .222 4.5 2-7 Won 1 01-05 01-02 AMERICAN EAST Boston Red Sox 07 02 .778 -- 7-2 Won 3 03-00 04-02 Toronto Blue Jays 05 03 .625 1.5 5-3 Won 1 04-02 01-01 New York Yankees 05 04 .556 2.0 5-4 Lost 1 02-01 03-03 Detroit Tigers 04 04 .500 2.5 4-4 Won 2 02-00 02-04 Cleveland Indians 03 06 .333 4.0 3-6 Lost 3 02-01 01-05 Milwaukee Brewers 02 05 .286 4.0 2-5 Lost 4 00-02 02-03 Baltimore Orioles 02 06 .222 4.5 2-6 Won 1 00-02 02-04 YESTERDAY'S SCORES (IDLE teams listed in alphabetical order) NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Houston Astros 1 Seattle Mariners 1 Montreal Expos 2 Toronto Blue Jays 3 New York Mets 3 Oakland Athletics 2 Colorado Rockies 5 Detroit Tigers 3 Pittsburgh Pirates 5 Kansas City Royals 5 San Diego Padres 4 (13) New York Yankees 4 St. Louis Cardinals 4 Cleveland Indians 3 Los Angeles Dodgers 2 Boston Red Sox 4 (13) Atlanta Braves 1 California Angels PPD San Francisco Giants 6 Milwaukee Brewers RAIN Chicago Cubs IDLE Baltimore Orioles IDLE Cincinnati Reds IDLE Chicago White Sox IDLE Florida Marlins IDLE Minnesota Twins IDLE Philadelphia PhilliesIDLE Texas Rangers IDLE -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Joseph Hernandez | RAMS | | /.\ ******* _|_|_ / | LAKERS jtchern@ocf.Berkeley.EDU | KINGS | |__ | | DODGERS _|_|_ | | RAIDERS jtcent@soda.Berkeley.EDU | ANGELS |____||_|_| ******* | | |___| CLIPPERS
Just to inform the readers of newsrc Sony has just introduced a new DATman, the TCD-D7 which is smaller and less expensive than the D3. Also, the D7 has a coaxial jack which the D3 lacks. Oh, the D3 has always been available through mail-order houses for less than $700 dollars new... with the new model coming out, I suspect the now obsolete D3 will be selling for even less.
Some time back I asked for software recommendations to allow me to run X from my PC at home to my Sparc at the office. Many thanks for all replies, the majority of people recommended PCXremote from NCD. I received it yesterday and installed it on my Sparc and PC with only one hitch. The UNIX install consists of copying 2 files into some local bin directory. On the PC side, I ordered the WINDOWS version which came with a slick windows installation. The only problem I had was that my .xinitrc in my home directory had the line DISPLAY=`hostname`:0.0; export DISPLAY s.t the clients I kicked off connected to my Xserver on the Sparc console. By removing this line from the .xinitrc everything worked as planned and the clients connected to the server at `hostname`:1.0 Some comments on performance, I was connected to a Sparc 2 thru a NetBlazer Terminal Server over a 9600 baud line. My PC is a 486-DX2 ATI Ultra, 16 MB Bitmap Stuff Sucked. Basic Editing and compilation stuff definitely usable. Xmail was very usable. At times the first time U typed in an Xclient window there was a very noticable delay, I put this down to brain damaged "WINDOWS should not be called a SCHEDULER", besides that this will become my remote work environment for a while. Has anybody tried the NON Windows version of the product, the sales person said they performed about the same, given the over head of WINDOWS I question this? many thanks for help to all who responded
Another issue of importance. Was the crucification the will of God or a tragic mistake. I believe it was a tragic mistake. God's will can never be accomplished through the disbelief of man. Jesus came to this world to build the kingdom of heaven on the earth. He desperately wanted the Jewish people to accept him as the Messiah. If the crucification was the will of God how could Jesus pray that this cup pass from him. Was this out of weakness. NEVER. Many men and women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes. Is Jesus less than these. No he is not. He knew the crucification was NOT the will of GOD. God's will was that the Jewish people accept Jesus as the Messiah and that the kingdom of Heaven be established on the earth with Jesus as it's head. (Just like the Jewish people expected). If this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what kind of world we would live in today. It would be a very different world. And that is eactly what GOD wanted. Men and women of that age could have been saved by following the living Messiah while he was on the earth. Jesus could have established a sinless lineage that would have continued his reign after his ascension to the spiritual world to live with GOD. Now the kingdom of heaven on the earth will have to wait for Christ's return. But when he returns will he be recognized and will he find faith on this earth. Isn't it about time for his return. It's been almost 2000 years. Mike And the two simplest refutations are these: (1) What impact? The only record of impact comes from the New Testament. I have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate, and that the recorded "impact" actually happened. I find it interesting that no other contemporary source records an eclipse, an earthquake, a temple curtain being torn, etc. The earliest written claim we have of Jesus' resurrection is from the Pauline epistles, none of which were written sooner than 20 years after the supposed event. (2) It seems probable that no one displayed the body of Jesus because no one knew where it was. I personally believe that the most likely explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples, or by graverobbers). Don't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one gospel, and seems like exactly the sort of thing early Christians might make up in order to counter the grave-robbing charge. The New Testament does record that Jews believed the body had been stolen. If there were really guards, they could not have effectively made this claim, as they did.
Hi, I've got a Victor PC/XT with a 20 MB harddisk in it. The controller is a Toshiba MFM controller, with an additional 9 pins connector. There are 2 busses from my harddisk to this controller. One with 9 wires and another with 34 wires. The controller has two connectors for a 9 wire-bus and one for a 34 wire bus. Now I got a 20 MB harddisk from a friend of mine, and I wondered whether I can connect this second harddisk to the same controller (there is room for a 9 wire-bus, but not for the 34 wire bus) How can I solve my problem, any suggestions? If you need more info, mail me, please (luttik@fwi.uva.nl).
Please don't misuse newsgroup hierarchy names as distributions. Yes, but it's not an attribute of the window; it's an attribute of the GC used to do the drawing. Set the subwindow-mode to IncludeInferiors rather than the default ClipByChildren. der Mouse
I don't know any way except to see what modifiers are on in th Keypress event. Of course if there is some reason why you need to always know the state of modifiers even if your windows don't have the keyborads focus you can always ask for KeyPress events from the root window. Then you get all the KeyPresses and you always know what have been pressed. I think this is just a question of how to implement XLookupString. You can always write another function that interprets the KeyPresses as you like. You can look at the implementation of XLookupString from the Xlib sources and then modify it a little bit.
Really? What if it said "lentil eating" or "legume eating", what then? And I suppose "Accept 10" is anti-Octal bigotry? Geez, how PC can you get!? Uncle Fester
Just a thought........Maybe it possibly has to do with the fact that it IS an Emerson. I've got an Emerson VCR which is #6 in the series. Returned it six times for various and never the same problems. Got tired of taking it back and fixed it myself. The Hi-Fi "window" was a bit off. Something like the Hi-Fi audio fine-tuning. When I was a Wal-Mart "associate" in '88-'89, we had AT LEAST one returned as defective EVERY SINGLE DAY. How's that for reliability? Face it--Emerson can make audio stuff (albeit not of premium quality), but they CAN'T make anything as complex as video equipment with reliability IMHO. Please, no flames. Just *had* to share my Emerson disaster in the light of this exploding tv. JC
Hi netters! I'm looking for books that showing how to fix your own hardware problem. Please let me know if you have any books in mind. Thanks.
Hi All! I would like to know what are the popular ICs of the type, their capabilities (# of channels et.c.) and prices :-) Great thanks,
Umm, perhaps you could explain what 'rights' we are talking about here ..
3500 miles, black leather tank bra, tank bag, Corbin seat, Metzler 'B' tires. Garaged and pampered. I can't afford to continue paying NYC garage fees for two bikes so one of 'em has to go. Best offer above $4500 takes it.
Two LH Research SM11-1 power supplies (SM10 series). 1000W, 5V, 200A (currently wired for 115VAC) Control lines: +/- sense, on/off, pwr.fail, high/low margin, and current monitor. (The list price from LH Research is $824.00 each for qty. 1-9) Asking $500.00 for the pair.
Macintosh II cx with 40 MB HD, 8 MB RAM and 19" monochrome monitor (Ikegami) is for sale. Asking $3,000, no reasonable (best) offer will be rejected. Contact Konrad at (416) 365-0564m Mon-Frii 9-5.
I really didn't mean to imply that my Ninja was any better than a Duc. I have to talked to a few Duc owners (750SS owners in particular) who say that the power is something less than overwhelming. That said, I would love to have a 900SS. I guess I should have been a bit more specific. If you have something that weighs that same as the 750, go for the extra cubes. I think that fact that I own a GTV-6 shows that I don't care about maximum power (it's no slug though) to the exclusion of everything else. The note and the handling are more important to me. I just bought a Ninja because I couldn't afford a Duc. Didn't mean to ruffle any feathers, I'll probably be getting a 900SS next year... - Mark ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Mark S. Burnham (markb@wc.novell.com) AMA#668966 DoD#0747 Alfa Romeo GTV-6 '90 Ninja 750
Dave Winfield's name does not go In terms of PEAK, and I repeat PEAK years, Winfield has Done it all. He has batted in the 340's for a season, drove in 100 and more runs many times in a row before his injury. Consistently hit at or near 300 while knocking in 35 home runs. Have you even LOOKED at Dave Winfield's slugging percentage for three or 4 of his best seasons. I still think that dave was one of the BETTER of all time, but obviously not the best. He was one of the best athletes evr to play baseball. He hit line drives that hit the scoreboard in left-center field, a feat np one has done in the new Stadium. Heck, only 2 or 3 other people have hit it over that green fence since it has been remodeled. He could field, had a bullet arm, and his hitting was comparable in many seasons to gary sheffields, and barry bonds of last season. He is older now, and slowing down, takes more of an uppercut to lift the ball out of the park, but he will always be my hero, and my idol. There is nothing that could make me happier than George inviting Dave back to the Bronx to play his last year of ball with the Yankees. Of course, he will most likely refuse the offer, but who knows? For 3 million dollars, he'll play. Heck they are giving gallego 2.5 million this year, having Dave as their DH, while leaving him time to play the field when Tartabull is injured, or Nokes and mass are traded, should give the Yanks the inspiration and leadership that will sweep in a new age of Yankee domination.
Yes, I have! Wasn't there a case of a single lion ruling all the land from South Africa up to Egypt across to the congo? If my memory serves me correctly there was enough game to feed some 100,000 or more lions but he wouldn't let the other lions hunt as he wanted it all himself. He died of a heart attack brought on by being overweight. Good thing too as he had designs on Europe, America (north and south), and the Falkland Islands.
Um. How many games have the Orioles won? He is, or will be. No, currently there's no room for him in the rotation. Key is having a Most Impressive April. Abbott is pitching well. Perez is back. Wickman has pitched his way into the rotation, and is holding his spot with an outstanding performance his last time out. And Kamieniecki isn't doing too poorly himself. If the Yankees find themselves in need of a starter, Militello will get another chance. Until then, he'll have to wait in line.
Consumer Reports once wrote about the S-10 Blazer that it "shook and rattled like a tired taxi cab". There is one noise that is expecially irritating - the back window squeaks. I believe its because the whole tailgate assembly and window are not solid. Anyway, has anyone had the same problem, and have you found any fixes?
I agree, I had a hard feeling not believing my grand-grand mother who told me of elves dancing outside barns in the early mornings. I preferred not to accept it, even if her statement provided the truth itself. Life is hard. Cheers, Kent
From article <1qq7i1INNdqc@dns1.NMSU.Edu>, by bgrubb@dante.nmsu.edu (GRUBB): [Tons of stuff deleted on SCSI vs. IDE question...] Wow, you guys are really going wild on this IDE vs. SCSI thing, and I think it's great! Like lots of people, I'd really like to increase my data transfer rate from the hard drive. Right now I have a 15ms 210Mb IDE drive (Seagate 1239A), and what I would say is a standard (not special, no cache I believe) IDE controller card on my ISA 486-50. I'm currently thinking about adding another HD, in the 300Mb to 500Mb range. And I'm thinking hard (you should hear those gears a-grinding in my head) about buying a SCSI drive (SCSI for the future benefit). I believe I'm getting something like 890Kb/sec transfer right now (according to NU). How would this number compare if I bought the state-of-the-art SCSI card for my ISA PC, and the state-of-the-art SCSI hard drive (the wailing-est system I could hope for)? Obviously money factors into this choice as well as any other, but what would YOU want to use on your ISA system? And how much would it cost? Along those lines, what kind of transfer rate could I see with my IDE HD's if I were to buy the top-of-the-line IDE caching controller for my 200Mb, 15ms HD? And how much would it cost? I actually have a PAS-16, and could (what a waste I guess it would be...) hook up a SCSI HD through it's SCSI port which yields an optimum of 690Kb/sec. Actually, I have a borrowed 12ms Fujitsu HD hooked up through it now (and own the Trantor HD drivers for the PAS-16 SCSI port). Is this SCSI port a SCSI-2 port? How could I tell? Is the Fujitsu 2623A a SCSI-2? Are all SCSI HD's SCSI-2? Thanks for any comments on these rephrased questions.
It's exactly as dangerous as it looks. You're hard to see and have little protection. Keeping out of trouble means knowing your limits, keeping your machine in good shape and being able to predict and make up for every stupid move that drivers make out there. We deal with it because it's fun, but staying alive takes a conscious effort.
Is it possible to connect a atari monochrome monitor to some kind of VGA card? If someone have done this please let me know how. Thanx
[...] I presume that you meant to say tcsh here ------^^^^^ -- Michael Salmon #include <standard.disclaimer> #include <witty.saying> #include <fancy.pseudo.graphics>
Any pointers to articles, or personal opinions, critiquing user interface toolkits that operate across many windowing systems (e.g., X, MS Windows, Macintosh) - you know, Open Interface, XVT, Aspect ... If you reply with your opinion, please BRIEFLY state your choice and a short discussion why. Steve Maher maher@outland.gsfc.nasa.gov --
Are you suggesting that we should forget the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people by the Armenians between 1914 and 1920? But most people aren't aware that in 1939 Hitler said that he would pattern his elimination of the Jews based upon what the Armenians did to Turkish people in 1914. 'After all, who remembers today the extermination of the Tartars?' (Adolf Hitler, August 22, 1939: Ruth W. Rosenbaum (Durusoy), "The Turkish Holocaust - Turk Soykirimi", p. 213.) I refer to the Turks and Kurds as history's forgotten people. It does not serve our society well when most people are totally unaware of what happened in 1914 where a vicious society, run by fascist Armenians, decided to simply use the phoniest of pretexts as an excuse, for wiping out a peace-loving, industrious, and very intelligent and productive ethnic group. What we have is a demand from the fascist government of x-Soviet Armenia to redress the wrongs that were done against our people. And the only way we can do that is if we can catch hold of and not lose sight of the historical precedence in this very century. We cannot reverse the events of the past, but we can and we must strive to keep the memory of this tragedy alive on this side of the Atlantic, so as to help prevent a recurrence of the extermination of a people because of their religion or their race. Which means that I support the claims of the Turks and Kurds to return to their lands in x-Soviet Armenia, to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland. Serdar Argic
I found it very interesting that Atlas depended on pressure to maintain tank geometry....leads me to the question: ? have any of the SSTO concepts explored pressurized tankage such that the launch configuration would be significantly different from the reentry one? I have long been facinated by pnumatic structures as conceived and built by Frei Otto and others, a "ballon" tank SSTO sounds very clever.
ites: a The newer the drive, the less problem you will have. The old ten and fifteen meg full heights were power hogs, but I have over twenty units that I set up running flawlessly with half height drives and/or hard cards. --
Hello, Can anyone give me their opinion on which system has got the best overall system performance; 486/66DX2 with ISA-BUS or 486/50DX2 with EISA-BUS The systems are equal in all other areas. Thanks in advance -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- jesper honig spring, spring@diku.dk | IF ANIMALS BELIEVED IN GOD university of copenhagen, denmark | THE DEVIL WOULD BE A MAN
If you are interested in (any of) the following, please contact me: EMail mbeck@vtssi.vt.edu Phone (703)552-4381 USMail Michael Beck 1200 Progress Street #5500E Blacksburg, Virginia 24060 ~~~~~~~~~~FOR SALE as of 12AM 4/16/93~~~~~~~~~~ 1 PANASONIC AF X8 CCD OmniMovie Camcorder VHS HQ High Speed Shutter Flying Erase Head ca. 3 years old, but only used VERY lightly Date/Time stamp Counter/Memory Rec Review Fade Back Light Auto/Manual Focus Built in microphone/Jack for external microphone Comes with: Sturdy aluminum/hardplastic carrying case (20" long X 13" wide X 6" high) Shoulder strap Power adaptor/battery charger Battery pack Remote recording controller UHF/VHF ---> cable adaptor Audio/Video cables and adaptor Aproximate dimensions (measured around outmost features) 15" long X 4" wide X 8" high (w/ handle) ASKING PRICE: $BEST OFFER ($700 new price) 1 AMIGA 3000UX 25mhz, unix compatible machine w/100 meg Hard Drive, 4 meg RAM, no monitor, keyboard (ESC and ~ keys broken) ASKING PRICE: $1500 OBO. mult. PROTEON P1390 token ring cards SOLD!! AT&T Portable Cellular Phone, Model 3730 ASKING PRICE: $SOLD FOR $350 (Listed at $600 new)
Downtown FURNISHED Summer Sublet May 15 thru Aug 15 Great location at: 215 N. Frances St. & Johnson St. (Across Witte) Near Nitty Gritty & Near Howard Johnson Near State Street & Near South East Dorms Near University Square & Near SERF Two bedroom Your own spacious room (the larger!) Laundry available Parking available Bathroom Kitchen Large Closet Dual Desks Just pay for electricity (~$7/month) Asking $500 for whole summer! Send inquiries to: Howard 608-255-6379 moy@cae.wisc.edu
I recently compiled the X11R5pl22 sources using gcc-2.3.3 on a Sun3/80. Everything seems to work fine. Usually. But at seemingly random times the server will just hang. I will click the mouse somewhere (never happens while my back is turned), and without warning, it will freeze there, requiring the server to be killed. Sometimes it will run fine for weeks, sometimes only for minutes. (Os: 4.1.1; frame buffer: bw2). Has anyone seen this before, any ideas? (anything at all?) thanks, --jeff
THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) ______________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release April 17, 1993 INTERVIEW OF THE PRESIDENT BY MICHAEL WHITELY OF KDKA-AM RADIO, PITTSBURGH Pittsburgh International Airport Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 10:40 A.M. EDT Q For everyone listening on KDKA Radio, I'm Mike Whitely, KDKA Radio News. We're here at the Pittsburgh International Airport and with me is the President of the United States Bill Clinton. And I'd like to welcome you to the area and to KDKA. THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Mike. Glad to be here. Q There are a lot of things we'd like to talk about in the brief amount of time we have, but some news is just breaking from Los Angeles. I guess the entire country has been kind of holding their breath, wondering what's going to happen in the trial of the four Los Angeles police officers. We just heard that two of those officers, the sergeant, Sergeant Koon and Officer Powell have been found guilty, and two officers have been found not guilty. It's a situation that's been building for over a year since the first trial and now this trial and this verdict. And I wonder what your thoughts are this morning on how you see the situation in Los Angeles in connection with your administration and what you're trying to do. THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, I think the American people should know that this trial, in my judgment, is a tribute to the work and judgment of the jury, as well as to the efforts of the federal government in developing the case. The law under which the officers were tried is a complex one; the standards of proof are complicated. The jury decided that they would convict the sergeant who was responsible for supervising the officers and the officer who on the film did most of the beating. The jury acquitted an officer who kicked Rodney King, but also plainly tried to shield him from some blows, and another officer who was a rookie. No one knows exactly why they did what they did, but it appears that they really tried to do justice here. They acknowledged that his civil rights were violated. And I think that the American people should take a lot of pride in that. But I hope now we can begin to look ahead and focus on three things: first of all, the importance of trying to bring this country together and not violate the civil rights of any American; secondly, the importance of renewing our fight against crime. I think it's important to recognize that in the poorest areas of Los Angeles and many other cities in this country, people may be worried about police abuse, but they're even more worried about crime. It's time that we renewed our efforts to go to community policing -- put 100,000 more police officers on the street; pass the Brady Bill that would require a waiting period before people could buy a handgun, and do some other things to reduce the vulnerability of our people to violence and drugs. And the last point I'd like to make is it seems to me that we have got to rededicate ourselves to the economic revitalization of our cities and other economically-distressed areas. If you just think about it -- if everybody in Los Angeles who wanted a job had one, I don't think we'd have quite as many problems as we do. And I laid out a very ambitious program in the campaign to try to bring private investment and public investment to bear in our cities. I have dispatched the Commerce Secretary, Ron Brown, to California to try to come up with some strategies for that state, because it's our biggest state with our highest unemployment rate -- which could then be applied around the country. I want to talk to him and to the Attorney General, to the new head of the NAACP, to Reverend Jackson, and to several other people, and then I'll decide where to go from here with regard to Los Angeles and the other cities of the country. Q Let's talk about what brings you to the Pittsburgh area today. There have been -- I guess there's been a lot of discussion on Capitol Hill about your stimulus package. You've been locked in a battle with the GOP. Yesterday, as you said earlier in your radio address, you made some moves to break that gridlock. What brings you to Pittsburgh, in particular to Allegheny County, in particular to Pennsylvania, with that battle? THE PRESIDENT: Well, there are two reasons. First of all, Pittsburgh, Allegheny County and Pennsylvania supported me in the last election because they wanted a new direction in economic policy. We have passed our overall economic plan; it gives the country a very different budget for the next five years than we've had in the previous 12. We reduced the deficit and, at the same time, increased investment in jobs and education and health care, in the things that will make us a stronger country. But in addition to that, I asked the Congress in the short run to spend a little more money, a modest amount of money to create another half-million jobs in the next year and a half; to try to cut the unemployment rate by a half a percent; but also to try to spark job creation in the private sector more. The plan passed the House. It has the support of a majority of the Senate. At the present time, all the Republican senators as a bloc are filibustering the bill. That is, they won't let it come to a vote. I believe that Senator Specter would like to vote for the bill. And I believe that Senator Dole, the Republican leader, has put a lot of pressure on a lot of the Republicans to stay hitched. And they're all saying that this bill increases the deficit. It doesn't. This bill is well below the spending targets that Congress approved, including the Republicans, for this year. This bill is paid for by budget cuts in the next five years. This bill is designed to give a jump-start to the economy. And I must say, a lot of the Republican senators that are holding it up, when Mr. Bush was President, voted for billions of dollars of emergency spending of just this kind -- much of it was totally unrelated to creating jobs. So what I'm trying to do is to break this logjam. I've held out an olive branch, I've offered a compromise. But I think that we ought to try to put some more Americans to work right now to show that we're changing the direction of the country. And that's the purpose of the bill. Q Have you been in touch with Senator Specter or his office lately? THE PRESIDENT: Well, we've been trying to talk regularly to -- through my White House Congressional Liaison operation to the senators that we think are open to this -- Senator Specter, Senator D'Amato from New York, Senator Jeffords from Vermont, Senator Hatfield from Oregon, and five or six others whom we believe know we need more jobs in this economy and know that we are paying for this with budget cuts over the life of the budget I presented. You know, it has a lot of appeal to say, well, we've got a big deficit, we shouldn't increase it more. But the truth is that we are paying for this with budget cuts in the whole life of the budget over the next few years. And more importantly, we have this program well below the spending targets that Congress has already approved for this year. And they've done this for years, with the Republicans voting for it -- many Republicans voting for it -- for things that weren't nearly as important as putting the American people back to work. So I just hope that this doesn't become a political issue. It ought to just be about the people of this country and the need for jobs. Q I have some questions from people who supported you, and some people who are skeptical about your administration. It has to do with their hopes, and also with their fears. A lot of people who supported you and voted for you in Pennsylvania --I think some of them are now saying, we're glad we got him in the White House, but now look at this incredible process he has to go through. Look at these problems. Look at this gridlock. And they're beginning to wonder, is this going to work; can you pull it off? And, of course, your skeptics are saying, well, I knew it was going to be like this. THE PRESIDENT: Well, what I would -- I'd ask people, first of all, to remember that we are, frankly, moving very fast. The budget resolution that the Congress passed is the fastest they have ever passed a budget resolution -- ever -- in history, setting out the next five-year budget targets. So we are moving really rapidly. And we've got them working on political reform, welfare reform, health care reform, a whole wide range of things. But it's a big operation. You can't expect to turn it around overnight. It took 12 years to produce the conditions which led to the victory I received from the people in November, and we can't turn it around in 90 days. But I think we're making real, real progress. I would urge the people not to get discouraged. We're not going to win every battle, and not everything is going to happen overnight. But we are definitely moving and changing things. Q Thank you very much. The President of the United States, Bill Clinton, here live at Pittsburgh International Airport. I'm Mike Whitely, KDKA News.
I've started to notice the same thing myself. I'm running DOS 5 and Win 3.1 so I can fix it from the Windows Control Panel. At times it is the date, at others the clock seems to be running several minutes behind where it should be. If you find out I'd like to know also. Oh, and I also leave my system running all the time.
I've got an Eimac 818A/4PR1000A transmitter/linear amplifier tube, unused, in original packaging (but opened and inventoried). I'd guarantee this tube to operate and be as observation and its paperwork say (unused), although I have no transmitter to test it with. Offers? -- -------------------------------------------------------------------- Dave Medin Phone: (205) 730-3169 (w) SSD--Networking (205) 837-1174 (h) Intergraph Corp. M/S GD3004 Internet: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com Huntsville, AL 35894 UUCP: ...uunet!ingr!b30!catbyte!dtmedin ******* Everywhere You Look (at least around my office) *******
Hi I am trying to implement a pointer feature in Xlib I have multiple windows and all can take input and show output simultaneously on all other displays I want to implement a pointer feature I would like to get the pointer to come up on all windows once I choose pointer in the menu and every one should be able to see it Can you give me some hints as to how I should proceed replies will be greatly appreciated
First of all I never said the Holocaust. I said before the Holocaust. I'm not ignorant of the Holocaust and know more about Nazi Germany than most people (maybe including you). What I resent is ignorant statements that call people names when they disagree with your position. Opposing the atrocities commited by the Israeli governement hardly qualifies as anti-semitism. If you think name calling is a valid form of argument in intellectual circles, you need to get out more often. I don't think the suffering of some Jews during WWII justifies the crimes commited by the Israeli government. Any attempt to call Civil liberterians like myself anti-semetic is not appreciated.
So long as we think that good things are what we *have* to do rather than what we come to *want* to do, we miss the point. The more we love God; the more we come to love what and whom He loves. When I find that what I am doing is not good, it is not a sign to try even harder (Romans 7:14-8:2); it is a sign to seek God. When I am aware of Jesus' presence, I usually want what He wants. It is His strenth, His love that empowers my weakness.
Well said. Okay, Del, so Michael was being unfair, but you are being unfair back. He is taking college courses now, I presume he is studying hard, and his postings reveal that he is *somewhat* hip to the technical issues of astronautics. Plus, he is attentively following the erudite discourse of the Big Brains who post to sci.space; is it not inevitable that he will get a splendid technical education from reading the likes of you and me? [1] Like others involved in sci.space, Mr. Adams shows symptoms of being a fledgling member of the technoculture, and I think he's soaking it up fast. I was a young guy with dreams once, and they led me to get a technical education to follow them up. Too bad I wound up in an assembly-line job stamping out identical neutrinos day after day... (-: [1] Though rumors persist that Del and I are both pseudonyms of Fred McCall.
You have just reminded me of an old Tom Paxton song... I"M CHANGING MY NAME TO CHRYSLER (Tom Paxton, 1980) Oh the price of gold is rising out of sight And the dollar is in sorry shape tonight What the dollar used to get us Now won't buy a head of lettus No the economic forecast isn't right But amidst the clouds I spot a shining ray I caneven glimpse a new and better way And I've devised a plan of action Worked it down to the last fraction And I'm going into action here today. Chorus: I am changing my name to Chrysler I am going down to Washington D.C. I will tell some power broker What they did for Iacoca Will be perfectly acceptable to me. I am changing my name to Chrysler I am heading for that great receiving line So when they hand a million grand out I'll be standing with my hand out Yes sir I'll get mine When my creditors are screaming for their dough I'll be proud to tell them all where they can go They won'y have to scream and holler They'll all be paid to the last dollar Where the endless streams of money seam to flow I'll be glad to tell them all what they can do Its just a matter of a simple form or two It's not renumeration it's a liberal education Ain't you kind of glad that I'm in debt to you Chorus Since the first first amphibians crawled out of the slime We've been struggling in an unrelenting climb We were hardly up and walking before money started talking And it's sad failure is an awful crime It's been that way for a millennium or two But now it seems there's a different point of view If you're a corporate titanic and your failure is gigantic Down in congress there is a safety net for you. Chorus... Perhaps Steven Jobs should take Paxton's advice and change his name to Chrysler, or perhaps set himself up as an S&L, maybe Neil Bush could give him a hand? ================================================================ akasacou@alfred.ccs.carleton.ca No eternal reward will forgive us now for wasting the dawn... J.Morrison
... Wouldn't a crystal be affected by cold? My gut feeling is that, as a mechanically resonating device, extreme cold is likely to affect the compliance (?terminology?) of the quartz, and hence its resonant frequency. JohnH ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | _ |_ _ |_| _ _| _| Electronics Department |_| (_) | | | | | | (_| (_| (_| \/ School of MPCE ---------------------------------/- Macquarie University Sydney, AUSTRALIA 2109 Email: johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au, Ph: +61 2 805 8959, Fax: +61 2 805 8983
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS TI-95 PROCALC new in box w/manuals also TEXAS INSTRUMENTS TI-95 STATISTICS LIBRARY MODULE FOR PROCALC new in box w/manual and TEXAS INSTRUMENTS TI-95 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING MODULE FOR PROCALC new in box w/manual all for $100.00 + shipping
What size dirtbikes did you ride? and for how long? You might be able to slip into a 500cc bike. Like I keep telling people, though, buy an older, cheaper bike and ride that for a while first...you might like a 500 Interceptor as an example
Excuse me to every one. I am an Amiga owner and tired to have the same graphic modes. So I saw on nn there was a little bridgeboard that made the Amiga's PC slots communicate with the stanndard Amiga's slot. The building mother house of this little gadget assure me that using this thing I can use all the pc boards included the SVGA cards. I am interested in computer graphics and I do not know many things about pc in general. So, what is the best (ISA slot) card on the market ? I'd like to reach resolutions like 1280x1024 with 256 colors or 800x600 with 24 bitplanes. Any suggestion ?? thankyou in advance Paolo Silvera -- Certified Commodore Amiga developer
If one is a vegan (a vegetarian taht eats no animal products at at i.e eggs, milk, cheese, etc., after about 3 years of a vegan diet, you need to start taking B12 supplements because b12 is found only in animals.) Acutally our bodies make B12, I think, but our bodies use up our own B12 after 2 or 3 years. Lacto-oveo vegetarians, like myself, still get B12 through milk products and eggs, so we don't need supplements. And If anyone knows more, PLEASE post it. I'm nearly contridicting myself with the mish-mash of knowledge I've gleaned.
I do (did) contribute to the ARF mortgage fund but when interest rates plumetted, I just paid it off. The problem is, I couldn't convince Congress to move my home to a nicer location on Federal land. BTW, even though the building is alleged to be funded by tax exempt private funds, the maintainence and operating costs will be borne by taxpayers forever. Would anyone like to guess how much that will come to and tell us why this point is never mentioned?
Thanks to everyone who responded to my Honda Accord break question. It does seem that the master cylinder is bad. I will have my mechanic double check and be sure it isn't something simpler and cheaper first, but from your responses it sounds like it is very likely to be the master cylinder. Thanks everyone!!
KY>To all those who have PASSATs, do you recommend using Super Unleaded or just KY>regular Unleaded Gasoline. I have been using Regular Unleaded. A friend of mine has KY>a Jetta and has always used Super Unleaded and thinks I should be using the same; KY>however, I believe the advantages of Super Unleaded for CARs $30000 and under KY>has been overplayed by guess who: the companies who sell them, because that is KY>where they make the most PROFIT. A Ralph Nader report and other consumer advocates KY>have in the past spoken against those oil companies. Your Passat VR6 is designed to run on premium gasoline, however the engine electronics will retard the timing so that no harm wil be done to the engine with lower octane fuel. You will likely, however, get somewhat more power and fuel mileage (especially in hot weather) out of this particular engine if you do run it on premium. Tom Neumann --- þ DeLuxeý 1.25 #350 þ I sell Volkswagens.
This is to let you know that the fourth issue of the Copt-Net Newsletter has been issued. The highlights of this issue include: 1. Easter Greating: Christ is risen; Truly he is risen! 2. The Holy Family in Egypt (part 1) 3. Anba Abraam, the Friend of the Poor (part 4) 4. A review of the Coptic Encyclopedia 5. A new Dictionary of the Coptic Language This Newsletter has been prepared by members of Copt-Net, a forum where news, activities, and services of the Coptic Orthodox Churches and Coptic communities outside Egypt are coordinated and exchanged. If you want your name to be included in the mailing list, or have any questions please contact Nabil Ayoub at <ayoub@erctitan.me.wisc.edu>.
FOR SALE: **************************************************************** 386-40 with VGA Color Monitor, dual floppy, VGA card with 1MB on board, joystick, mouse, 2 MB RAM, no hard drive. FOR ONLY $500! Respond quickly!
[Patrick's example of anti-competitive regulations for auto dealers deleted.] Let me try to drag this discussion back to the original issues. As I've noted before, I'm not necessarily disputing the benefits of eliminating anti-competitive legislation with regard to auto dealers, barbers, etc. One need not, however, swallow the entire libertarian agenda to accomplish this end. Just because one grants the benefits of allowing anyone who wishes to cut hair to sell his/her services without regulation does not mean that the same unregulated barbers should be free to bleed people as a medical service without government intervention. (As some/many libertarians would argue.) On a case by case basis, the cost/benefit ratio of government regulation is obviously worthwhile. The libertarian agenda, however, does not call for this assessment. It assumes that the costs of regulation (of any kind) always outweigh its benefits. This approach avoids all sorts of difficult analysis, but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic, to say the least. I have no objection to an analysis of medical care, education, national defense or local police that suggests a "free market" can provide a more effective, efficient means of accomplishing social objectives than is provided through "statist" approaches. With some notable exceptions, however, I do not see such nitty-gritty, worthwhile analysis being carried out by self-professed libertarians. jsh
Sorry, but it is *virtually* impossible to win a division with "no talent" over 162 games. I would amend your definition to: underdog: a team expected to lose, but which wins thanks to underestimated talent.
Oh... I forgot... Art Shamsky, former Red and Mets player. Batted .301 between injuries in 1969 (fell short of qualifying for Top 10 because of injuries and platoon with Ron Swoboda; no Swobo wasn't Jewish).
Yet another Jeep wannabe designed for yuppies who will never take it off road but want to look "outdoorsey".
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ I've always taken Murphy's Law to be an exhortation to prudence, and an observation about the behavior of complex systems, rather than a denial of divine benevolence.
Does anyone out there know of any products using Motorola's Neuron(r) chips MC143150 or MC143120. If so, what are they and are they utilizing Standard Network Variable Types (SNVT)? _________________________________________________________________________________
I did not claim that our system was objective.
Once again, it appears that the one-eyed man has appeared in the land of the sighted and for some strange resaon has appointed himself the ruler and supreme power.
I'm sure zero-intested economical systems survive on a small-scale, co-ops is not an Islamic invention, and we have co-operatives working all around the world. However such systems don't stand the corruption of a large scale operation. Actually, nothing could handle human greed, IMHO. Not even Allah :-). Cheers, Kent
I've seen a listing of a Seagate 1G IDE hard drive. Windows NT already supports SCSI, a variety of adapters, for disk, tape, and CD-ROM. So does OS/2 2.0.
Afraid I can't give any more info on this.. and hoping someone in greter NETLAND has some details. A short story in the newspaper a few days ago made some sort of mention about how the Japanese, using what sounded like a gravity assist, had just managed to crash (or crash-land) a package on the moon. the article was very vague and unclear. and, to make matters worse, I didn't clip it. does this jog anyone's memory?
Archive-name: space/constants Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:04 $ CONSTANTS AND EQUATIONS FOR CALCULATIONS This list was originally compiled by Dale Greer. Additions would be appreciated. Numbers in parentheses are approximations that will serve for most blue-skying purposes. Unix systems provide the 'units' program, useful in converting between different systems (metric/English, etc.) NUMBERS 7726 m/s (8000) -- Earth orbital velocity at 300 km altitude 3075 m/s (3000) -- Earth orbital velocity at 35786 km (geosync) 6371 km (6400) -- Mean radius of Earth 6378 km (6400) -- Equatorial radius of Earth 1738 km (1700) -- Mean radius of Moon 5.974e24 kg (6e24) -- Mass of Earth 7.348e22 kg (7e22) -- Mass of Moon 1.989e30 kg (2e30) -- Mass of Sun 3.986e14 m^3/s^2 (4e14) -- Gravitational constant times mass of Earth 4.903e12 m^3/s^2 (5e12) -- Gravitational constant times mass of Moon 1.327e20 m^3/s^2 (13e19) -- Gravitational constant times mass of Sun 384401 km ( 4e5) -- Mean Earth-Moon distance 1.496e11 m (15e10) -- Mean Earth-Sun distance (Astronomical Unit) 1 megaton (MT) TNT = about 4.2e15 J or the energy equivalent of about .05 kg (50 gm) of matter. Ref: J.R Williams, "The Energy Level of Things", Air Force Special Weapons Center (ARDC), Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico, 1963. Also see "The Effects of Nuclear Weapons", compiled by S. Glasstone and P.J. Dolan, published by the US Department of Defense (obtain from the GPO). EQUATIONS Where d is distance, v is velocity, a is acceleration, t is time. Additional more specialized equations are available from: ames.arc.nasa.gov:pub/SPACE/FAQ/MoreEquations For constant acceleration d = d0 + vt + .5at^2 v = v0 + at v^2 = 2ad Acceleration on a cylinder (space colony, etc.) of radius r and rotation period t: a = 4 pi**2 r / t^2 For circular Keplerian orbits where: Vc = velocity of a circular orbit Vesc = escape velocity M = Total mass of orbiting and orbited bodies G = Gravitational constant (defined below) u = G * M (can be measured much more accurately than G or M) K = -G * M / 2 / a r = radius of orbit (measured from center of mass of system) V = orbital velocity P = orbital period a = semimajor axis of orbit Vc = sqrt(M * G / r) Vesc = sqrt(2 * M * G / r) = sqrt(2) * Vc V^2 = u/a P = 2 pi/(Sqrt(u/a^3)) K = 1/2 V**2 - G * M / r (conservation of energy) The period of an eccentric orbit is the same as the period of a circular orbit with the same semi-major axis. Change in velocity required for a plane change of angle phi in a circular orbit: delta V = 2 sqrt(GM/r) sin (phi/2) Energy to put mass m into a circular orbit (ignores rotational velocity, which reduces the energy a bit). GMm (1/Re - 1/2Rcirc) Re = radius of the earth Rcirc = radius of the circular orbit. Classical rocket equation, where dv = change in velocity Isp = specific impulse of engine Ve = exhaust velocity x = reaction mass m1 = rocket mass excluding reaction mass g = 9.80665 m / s^2 Ve = Isp * g dv = Ve * ln((m1 + x) / m1) = Ve * ln((final mass) / (initial mass)) Relativistic rocket equation (constant acceleration) t (unaccelerated) = c/a * sinh(a*t/c) d = c**2/a * (cosh(a*t/c) - 1) v = c * tanh(a*t/c) Relativistic rocket with exhaust velocity Ve and mass ratio MR: at/c = Ve/c * ln(MR), or t (unaccelerated) = c/a * sinh(Ve/c * ln(MR)) d = c**2/a * (cosh(Ve/C * ln(MR)) - 1) v = c * tanh(Ve/C * ln(MR)) Converting from parallax to distance: d (in parsecs) = 1 / p (in arc seconds) d (in astronomical units) = 206265 / p Miscellaneous f=ma -- Force is mass times acceleration w=fd -- Work (energy) is force times distance Atmospheric density varies as exp(-mgz/kT) where z is altitude, m is molecular weight in kg of air, g is local acceleration of gravity, T is temperature, k is Bolztmann's constant. On Earth up to 100 km, d = d0*exp(-z*1.42e-4) where d is density, d0 is density at 0km, is approximately true, so d@12km (40000 ft) = d0*.18 d@9 km (30000 ft) = d0*.27 d@6 km (20000 ft) = d0*.43 d@3 km (10000 ft) = d0*.65 Atmospheric scale height Dry lapse rate (in km at emission level) (K/km) ------------------------- -------------- Earth 7.5 9.8 Mars 11 4.4 Venus 4.9 10.5 Titan 18 1.3 Jupiter 19 2.0 Saturn 37 0.7 Uranus 24 0.7 Neptune 21 0.8 Triton 8 1 Titius-Bode Law for approximating planetary distances: R(n) = 0.4 + 0.3 * 2^N Astronomical Units (N = -infinity for Mercury, 0 for Venus, 1 for Earth, etc.) This fits fairly well except for Neptune. CONSTANTS 6.62618e-34 J-s (7e-34) -- Planck's Constant "h" 1.054589e-34 J-s (1e-34) -- Planck's Constant / (2 * PI), "h bar" 1.3807e-23 J/K (1.4e-23) - Boltzmann's Constant "k" 5.6697e-8 W/m^2/K (6e-8) -- Stephan-Boltzmann Constant "sigma" 6.673e-11 N m^2/kg^2 (7e-11) -- Newton's Gravitational Constant "G" 0.0029 m K (3e-3) -- Wien's Constant "sigma(W)" 3.827e26 W (4e26) -- Luminosity of Sun 1370 W / m^2 (1400) -- Solar Constant (intensity at 1 AU) 6.96e8 m (7e8) -- radius of Sun 1738 km (2e3) -- radius of Moon 299792458 m/s (3e8) -- speed of light in vacuum "c" 9.46053e15 m (1e16) -- light year 206264.806 AU (2e5) -- \ 3.2616 light years (3) -- --> parsec 3.0856e16 m (3e16) -- / Black Hole radius (also called Schwarzschild Radius): 2GM/c^2, where G is Newton's Grav Constant, M is mass of BH, c is speed of light Things to add (somebody look them up!) Basic rocketry numbers & equations Aerodynamical stuff Energy to put a pound into orbit or accelerate to interstellar velocities. Non-circular cases?
Back when I was building round tail light 2002s they were Bimmers. It was only when the (red suspendered, Reganomics generated, quiche eating) Yuppies got into the market >-( that they became Beamers and the hood ornaments started disappering.
Praise God! I'm writing everyone to inform you that I have been accepted to the Doctor of Psychology program at Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, CA. I've been working long and hard to try to get in there and have said many hours of prayer. I'm very excited for this opportunity, but also very nervous about it. I'd appreciate the prayers of the readers of this group for my preparation for school this summer and for my career as a graduate student. I'd also appreciate any information any of the readers of this group might have about Fuller, Pasadena, or California in general, like good places to have fun, good churches to check out, or anything else that might be good for me to know. Also, if anyone knows of any foundations that might have funding or scholarship money available, please let me know! Of course, if you wish to make a personal contribution.....:) The contract for my current job is over at the end of April. I'll be taking a couple classes at UT this summer and then I'll be moving to Pasadena. Hopefully, I'll be able to get net.access next fall, although Fuller doesn't have it itself. I've enjoyed the interesting discussions and I commend everyone for their earnest search to please God. Thanks to our moderator for providing such a wonderful service and in doing a great job of running this news group. May God bless you all. Vaya con Dios, mi amigas y amigos. Paul =============================================================================== Paul Conditt Internet: conditt@titan.tsd.arlut.utexas.edu Applied Research Phone: (512) 835-3422 FAX: (512) 835-3416/3259 Laboratories Fedex: 10000 Burnet Road, Austin, Texas 78758-4423 University of Texas Postal: P.O. Box 8029, Austin, Texas 78713-8029 Austin, Texas <----- the most wonderful place in Texas to live
You assume this because you believe in a designing creator, and you observe our ability to procreate... .... But then you observe our ability to modify fertility through intelligence & experiment, and draw no similar conclusions about God designing us for scientific inquiry & the use of the technology that it produces. How is it that one ability is "obviously from God", and the other not? I want to know the truth, and hold the Truth as the most basic of all ethical values, because correct moral judgement relies on knowing the truth, not vice versa. Moralities that assert that assent to a belief is a moral choice, and not compelled by evidence inevitably cut off the limb they sit upon. Falsification of evidence, conscious and unconscious, follows corrupting both the intellect and the heart. If there is a God, he has nothing to fear from truth. As to imaginary gods and there followers: Be afraid. Be very afraid.
I only want to say that I agree with Noam on this point and I hope that all sides stop targeting civilians.
DA] Armenia is involved in fighting with Azarbaijan. It is Armenian DA] soldiers from mainland Armenia that are shelling towns in Azarbaijan. Are you related to 'Arromdian' of ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangle? If you feel that you can simply act as a fascist Armenian governmental crony in this forum you will be sadly mistaken and duly embarrassed. This is not a lecture to another historical revisionist and a genocide apologist, but a fact. This time, fascist x-Soviet Armenian Government will not get away with the genocide of 204,000 Azeri men, women and children. Not a chance. The SUNDAY TIMES 8 March 1992 Morgues fill as Azeris head for all-out war ------------------------------------------- Thomas Goltz, the first to report the massacre by Armenian soldiers in the worst violence since the breakup of the Soviet Union, reports from Agdam ------ Khojaly used to be a barren town, with empty shops and treeless dirt roads. Yet it was still home to thousands of people who, in happier times, tended fields and flocks of geese. Last week it was wiped off the map. ....... As sickening reports trickled in to the Azerbaijani border town of Agdam, and the bodies piled up in the morgues, there was little doubt that Khojaly and the stark foothills and gullies around it had been the site of the most terrible massacre since the Soviet Union broke apart. ....... I was the last Westerner to visit Khojaly. That was in january and people were predicting their fate with grim resignation. Zumrut Ezoya, a mother of four on board the helicopter that ferried us into the town, called her community "sitting ducks, ready to get shot". She and her family were among the victims of the massacre on February 26. ....... "The Armenians have taken all the outlying villages, one by one, and the government does nothing." Balakisi Sakikov, 55, a father of five, said. "Next they will drive us out or kill us all," said Dilbar, his wife. The couple, their three sons and three daughters were killed in the assault, as were many other people I had spoken to. ...... "It was close to the Armenian lines we knew we would have to cross. There was a road, and the first units of the column ran across then all hell broke loose. Bullets were raining down from all sides. we had just entered their trap." The azeri defenders picked off one by one. Survivors say that Armenian forces then began a pitiless slaughter, firing at anything moved in the gullies. A video taken by an azeri cameraman, wailing and crying as he filmed body after body, showed a grizzly trail of death leading towards higher, forested ground where the villagers had sought refuge from the Armenians. "The Armenians just shot and shot and shot," said Omar Veyselov, lying in hospital in Agdam with sharapnel wounds. "I saw my wife and daughter fall right by me." People wandered through the hospital corridors looking for news of the loved ones. Some vented their fury on foreigners: " Where is my daughter, where is my son ?" wailed a mother. "Raped. Butchered. Lost." Azerbaijan has said as many as 1,000 refugees were killed as they tried to flee. The Armenians have denied this, saying the civilians were caught in "crossfire". ....... Source: The Times, 2 March 1992. CORPSES LITTER HILLS IN KARABAKH ANATOL LIEVEN COMES UNDER FIRE WHILE FLYING WITH AZERBAIJANI FORCES TO INVESTIGATE THE ALLEGED MASS KILLINGS OF REFUGEES BY ARMENIAN TROOPS... As we swooped low over the snow-covered hills of Nagorno-Karabagh we saw the scattered corpses. Apparently, the refugees had been shot down as they ran. An Azerbaijani film of the places we flew over, shown to journalists afterwards, showed DOZENS OF CORPSES lying in various parts of the hills. The Azerbaijanis claim that AS MANY AS 1000 have died in a MASS KILLING of AZERBAIJANIS fleeing from the town of Khodjaly, seized by Armenians last week. A further 4,000 are believed to be wounded, frozen to death or missing... Seven of us squatted in the cabin of an Azerbaijani M24 attack helicopter as we flew to investigate the claims of the mass killings. Suddenly there was a thump against the underside of the aircraft, a red flash of tracer ripped past the starboard wing, and the helicopter rocked sharply. We swung round, and there was a deafening burst of fire from the cannon under our wing as the helicopter crew returned fire. We had been fired on from an Armenian anti-aircraft post. We swung round again, tipped to starboard and appeared to dive straight down into a valley. The brown earth swooped around our heads, the helicopter swung round again and followed the contours of the ground. Our cannon fired repeated blasts. Later it emerged that a civilian helicopter that we had been escorting had landed successfully at Nakhichevanik in the east of the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, to pick up some of the dead. We had, in fact, been attacked both by ground fire and by an Armenian helicopter. I had seen the Armenian helicopter intermittently through the window, its cannons firing, but had thought - mistakenly - that it was on "our side". Our group of Western journalists had embarked on a search-and-rescue flight that had become a combat mission. Our flight consisted of the civilian passenger helicopter and two M24 Soviet attack helicopters in the Azerbaijani service, nicknamed flying crocodiles for their armour. Our party was in the second crocodile. The civilian helicopter's job was to land in the mountains and pick up bodies at sites of the mass killings. The attack helicopters were there to give covering fire if necessary. The operation showed a striking sign of the disintegration of the Soviet armed forces because our pilot was a Russian officer. An Azerbaijani official told us that there were now five former Soviet military helicopters -and their pilots- fighting for Azerbaijan. "They have signed contracts to fly for us," he said. The helicopter we engaged in combat was most probably flown by a brother-officer of our Russian pilot, but fighting for the Armenians. We had taken off just before 5pm on Saturday from Agdam airfield, an heated for the Armenian-controlled mountains of Karabakh, a sheer white wall in the distance. The civilian helicopter picked up four corpses, and it was during this and a previous mission that an Azerbaijani cameraman filmed the several the several dozen bodies on the hillsides. We then took off again in a hurry and speed back towards Azerbaijani lines. Azerbaijani gunners on the last hill before the plain - and safety - gazed up at us as we passed. Back at the airfield in Agdam, we took a look the bodies the civilian helicopter had picked up. Two old men a small girl were covered with blood, their limbs contorted by the cold and rigor mortis. They had been shot. What did our Russian pilot think of the tragedy, our close shave, and the war in Nagorno-Karabakh? He gave us CHEERFUL GRIN, POLITELY DECLINED TO ANSWER QUES TIONS, AND MARCHED OFF TO HIS DINNER. Serdar Argic
Biblical basis for the Immaculate Conception: 1) "I will put enmity between you [the Serpent] and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, she [can also be read he] shall crush your head and you shall bruise her [or his] heel." -Genesis 3.15 2) "He who commits sin is of the devil ..." -1 John 3.8 3) "Hail, full of grace [greek - kecharitomene], the Lord is with thee ..." -Luke 1.28 From the above, we prove the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception. First, God has given the proto-evangel in Genesis 3.15, which is the first promise of a savior, who will redeem mankind from the wiles of Satan. "[Satan] was a murderer from the beginning, and has not stood in the truth because there is no truth in him." John 8.44. Now the proto-evangel promises several things, enmity between Satan and "the woman", and enmity between Satan and "her seed." Now the woman is both Eve (who is the immediate point of reference) and Mary, the second Eve. "Her seed" is Jesus Christ, and He is also at enmity with Satan in the same way as Mary is said to be at enmity with Satan. Thus, knowing as we do that Jesus Christ is sinless (Hebrews 7.26), we can conclude that Mary is also sinless because if she wasn't she would 1) not be at enmity with the devil, as 1 John 3.8 tells us, and 2) the relation of her sinlessness to Christ's sinlessness would be called into question, as would God's veracity. For God promised an enmity between Mary and the serpent, and it is not possible for God to lie or be decieved. Second, we have the Angelic Greeting where Mary is called by the Archangle Gabriel "full of grace." As I pointed out above this is from the Greek word "Kecharitomene" which means not just full of grace, but a plenitude or perfection of grace. The sense of it is best grasped by the footnote to the Jerusalem Bible, "Hail you who have been and reamin filled with grace." But that is a little to long to say, so it is reduced to full of grace. And as it says, "you who have been" Mary had always been filled with grace, from the moment of her conception, which was also the moment of her salvation, until her death some years later. It must be admitted that it is possible that God could have done what the doctrine of the Immaclute Conception says He did do. And if God could keep himself free from any contact with sin, through his Mother, He would have, and the Bible records this fact, to which the Fathers of the Church such as St. John Damascus, St. Augustine of Hippo , St. Ambrose and others are in complete agreement with, as is all of Christian tradition, and as is the infallible declaration of the Pope on the matter in "Ineffibilus Deus."
Maybe...then again did you get rid of that H/D of yorn and buy a rice rocket of your own? That would certainly explain the friendliness...unless you maybe had a piece of toilet paper stuck on the bottom of your boot...8-). Rich
Hey, now will you stop encouraging him? Copy protection only serves one pur- pose: to keep the honest buyer from making (legal) backup copies. It will definitely not stop any pirates. If you want to protect you soft, supply a good documentation and support. This is IMHO the *only* way of effectively pro- tecting software. Best Regards, Arno --
Make that worldwide coverage. I know numerous people who were planning holidays to the Florida, and have now chosen another (non-US) destination. You expect this sort of thing, perhaps, in third world countries - but not the US!
Write a good manual to go with the software. The hassle of photocopying the manual is offset by simplicity of purchasing the package for only $15. Also, consider offering an inexpensive but attractive perc for registered users. For instance, a coffee mug. You could produce and mail the incentive for a couple of dollars, so consider pricing the product at $17.95. You're lucky if only 20% of the instances of your program in use are non-licensed users. The best approach is to estimate your loss and accomodate that into your price structure. Sure it hurts legitimate users, but too bad. Retailers have to charge off loss to shoplifters onto paying customers; the software industry is the same. Unless your product is exceptionally unique, using an ostensibly copy-proof disk will just send your customers to the competetion.
Nope, I haven't seen the film, but Taylor's biography ("The Curve of Binding Energy") contains a short section on Orion and this test flight. Apparently it was quite impressi, and got von Braun very excited. In Real Life:Mike Williams | Perpetual Grad Student e-mail :mrw9e@virginia.edu| - It's not just a job, it's an indenture
I thought the implication was that the prince destroyed one fourth of the remaining Persian troops on the second round, and then 1/11 of those remaining on the third round. This would mean
I have an applicationShell which uses a colormap created with XCreateColormap() and uses all of the colors available for my 8-bit display. When I move the cursor over the window I get the "Technicolor Effect" - which is fine. Basically, my program works. My problem/question is: When I popup a dialogShell to prompt the user for some input I want the XmNdialogStyle to be set to XmDIALOG_PRIMARY_APPLICATION_MODAL. The result is that if my cursor is over the dialogShell I get my colormap, but if the cursor is over the applicationShell (or any window other than the dialogShell) I get the default colormap. But I'd like it so that if my cursor is over _any_ window of my application, I get my colormap. Any suggestions? Thanks,
If you think that's bad, just wait until he tries Dunston in the leadoff spot again. Yes, I also wonder if they can win with this manager. I never believed managers had that much to do with winning until I saw how much they had to do with losing....
And not only that, made a second clone from the same tissue sample after that of said domineering wife, to run at the helm of the more-pro-business party under guise of more free trade ... and she did inhale, many times, to boot ... (-; (-; (-; gld
Last I had heard because of budget and such the Air Farce is the only "Space Command" left.. The rest missions were generally given to the Air Farce.. Probably a good reason for me to transfer from the Army Guard to the Air Guard.. I hate walking with a pack on my back, and how do you put on your application for a job as a kitchen worker, that you have done a lot of KP (Kitchen Police)..
It's like refusing 'God's kingdom come'. In one of Jesus' revelation in this century, "...same thing as in the old days. People refuse to believe my messengers. Even when I was alive here on earth, they refuse Me. What more when I am just talking through somebody else?" (paraphrased). With all the knowledge believers accumulated, He would think that we would be 'enlightened' enough to detect which ones are 'authentic and divine' as opposed to 'evil or man-made'. These signs, these miracles, are you afraid that they are not from God? That these are the signs we should not open our hearts and mind to for thinking they are evil? Well, is faith in God evil? Is true peace evil? Is true love that is divine and pure evil? Why can't someone accept that God can do what He wants in fulfillment of His generous love and Jesus' never ending forgiveness to those who turn back to Him for salvation? Why are we refusing God's messenger of this truth? The mother to all who are in Christ? What brings us these: fears of being shamed by what others will think or say about us? which, in contrary, could be pleasing to God? fears of being humbled? fears of being judged as wrong (wrt mainstream standard of what is right)? Why can't we tolerate non-believers' mockery or ridicule of us for the sake of peace, love and obedience to God? The humbling lessons left to us by martyrs and saints? We'd rather engage in never-ending bickering and disproof of each other's opinion - looking at each other's mistakes - for the sake of arguments, instead of having communion in one body with Christ. What makes us go blind to the truth that God is All Powerful and that He can not be binded by what people wrote and have written about Him in all ages? Why is our faith in God limited? By all the words and literature we muster? What prevents us from going *beyond* being saved and extend God's rich love to others who are not? Why are our eyes not wide open to see that He continuously sees our faith, hope and love which glorify Him and so He gives us indications of His acknowledgements with signs/miracles (ordinary/common or divinely inspired) everywhere? Isn't that like an atheist/agnostic's view that all these are just ordinary here on earth and not caused by anything supernatural? Why then does the Holy Mother comes back to remind us: "We must really __accept that prayer__ changes the course of things and that with prayers __even wars can be prevented__." but then she continues: "You often have an egotistic attitude. Dear children, in these days you have prayed very much, __but your hands have remained empty__." Why hesitate in proclaiming what needs to be done: "prayer, conversion, peace, penance, fasting, the Holy Mass, living life as what the Gospel brings."? Why not do so? How? To the world? "Start in your family. Be a good example. Live the Word." Why worry if it is going to be of good use to many? "The fruits, __leave them to the Lord__, do not worry about anything or anyone but entrust yourself to the Lord." Although the Holy Mother does not insist because: "You are free; I bow before the freedom which God gives you." but she follows this with: "You are surprised because I say to you: Decide for God and yet, see how you have lived this day." Why does she constantly conveys: "Take this life toward God in the way as to __experience__ the Lord Himself in your __behavior__ and __not only__ when you pray" or one time when we decide that we are saved, or talk/write about God, etc. The Holy Mother warns: "Satan (the serpent) is always trying to dissuade you to turn you away from my peace plan and prayer." (Rev 12:17, the dragon became angry with the woman and went off to wage war against the rest of her offsprings, those who keep God's commandments, and bear witness to Jesus.) Do you have fear or hate for God's current messenger of true peace, love and our motherly protector from the anti-Christ? The one who is being apprehensive of communism, wars, famine and other evils that the serpent brings upon us? This obedient and blessed new Eve? The mother who warns us so we can be prepared and be strong against Satan? Haven't there been renewed faith, hope, love, peace and obedience wherever this messenger has shared her blessings and graces that God has given her in good purpose? Why do we choose to be blind? Why fear the truth that God has been giving us a chance and sharing Christ's ever-forgetting forgiveness to us through the obedient mother? The mother who has been consecrated the task __to reverse__ the disobedient harm and example done by the ancient Eve. She has been preparing the new Eden with her Immaculate Heart. The new Eden as sanctuary (the womb) for the next coming and judgement of the righteous by our Lord, Jesus Christ; when The Lamb marries His bride. Shouldn't we give her a hand in her exhaustive job of preparing us for the second coming of her Son as she has been conceived without sin to bear the Son of God in her womb? Why fear true peace, love and renewed faith and obedience to God that Mary faithfully brings to God's children? She has been protecting the flock (the rest of the offsprings) from the greedy dragon so as to present more righteous members for her Son's coming. Not all apparitions and miracles that resulted from them are worthy of belief. With prayer and guidance from the Holy Spirit and, of course, approval of our Church authorities, we should be aware of the true and divinely inspired ones; specifically, the ones which aligns with the Scripture. Also, our Lady reminds us of recommendation of __silence__ in our prayers: "If you speak unceasingly in your prayers, how will you be able to hear God? Allow Him room to answer you, to speak to you." She encourages us (with motherly nurturing) to continue in exuberant faith, hope and love to Jesus, constantly. NOT with mere emotions, but with deep, constant obedience to Jesus, her Beloved Son and acknowledgement of our need to have Him as part of our lives. Let's not wait to the last minute to renew our faith and the life that God wants us to live; when there won't be enough time or when it will be late. Nowadays, Mary says, "Pray, pray, pray for peace...reconciliation, my children." Have peace within yourself first before you can promote peace to others. For without peace, you can not fully accept my Son." And you think she's just an ordinary lady. Not to me. She's our good Mother/messenger from God and she is so nice enough to share God's kingdom to us through her Son and experience it. With Mary, we are assured that The Lamb always succeeds. ----- Note: All enclosed in quotes are from "Latest News of Medjugorje" Number 10, June, 1991 by Fr. Rene' Laurentin. -----
Well, it's obvious that you *don't* attempt, otherwise you would be aware that they *don't* all "loudly [claim] to be the One True Christian". I've tried to avoid using the phrase "is/is not christian" because of these ownership issues; instead, I've tried the phrase "Nicene christianity" in an attempt to identify the vast majority of "christianity" which has roughly similar viewpoints on the core theological issues. The JWs do not fall within this group and in fact espouse a position known as Arianism, which is rejected by all the nicene churches and virtually everyone else as well.
From _Cycle_World_ magazine (5/93) (who usually never says _anything_ bad about any motorcycle): "The Max certainly has motor, but there are some things it is short of. It is short of chassis. It loves straight lines; aimed in one, it is nicely stable. But it is not overfond of corners. Forced into one, it protests, shaking its head, chattering its front tire, grinding its footpegs, and generally making known its preference for straight pavement. Bumps? It doesn't like them either. Its fork isn't too bad, though it is soft enough that it can be bottomed under hard braking. The shocks, though which work on that short-travel, shaft-drive swingarm, are firm to the point of harshness." -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
It works for me. I avoid obscenities, and try to remain calm cool and collected, and try something like, "You almost just killed me, and I'm not moving until you apologize." or something more or less benign like that. I haven't been shot a single time, but I don't do it in Texas, and I do only do it when there are plenty of witnesses around.
Dr. Goebels thought that a lie repeated enough times could finally be believed. I have been observing that 'Poly' has been practicing Goebels' rule quite loyally. 'Poly's audience is mostly made of Greeks who are not allowed to listen to Turkish news. However, in today's informed world Greek propagandists can only fool themselves. For instance, those who lived in 1974 will remember the TV news they watched and the newspapers they read and the younger generation can read the American newspapers of July and August 1974 to find out what really happened. There are in Turkiye the Greek Hospital, The Greek Girls' Lycee Alumni Association, the Principo Islands Greek Benevolent Society, the Greek Medical Foundation, the Principo Greek Orphanage Foundation, the Yovakimion Greek Girls' Lycee Foundation, and the Fener Greek Men's Lycee Foundation. As for Greece, the longstanding use of the adjective 'Turkish' in titles and on signboards is prohibited. The Greek courts have ordered the closure of the Turkish Teachers' Association, the Komotini Turkish Youth Association and the Ksanti Turkish Association on grounds that there are no Turks in Western Thrace. Such community associations had been active until 1984. But they were first told to remove the word 'Turkish' on their buildings and on their official papers and then eventually close down. This is also the final verdict (November 4, 1987) of the Greek High Court. In the city of Komotini, a former Greek Parliamentarian of Turkish parentage, was sentenced recently to 18 months of imprisonment with no right to appeal, just for saying outloud that he was of Turkish descent. This duly-elected ethnic Turkish official was also deprived of his political rights for a period of three years. Each one of these barbaric acts seems to be none other than a vehicle, used by the Greek governments, to cover-up their inferiority complex they display, vis-a-vis, the people of Turkiye. The Agreement on the Exchange of Minorities uses the term 'Turks,' which demonstrates what is actually meant by the previous reference to 'Muslims.' The fact that the Greek governments also mention the existence of a few thousand non-Turkish Muslims does not change the essential reality that there lives in Western Thrace a much bigger Turkish minority. The 'Pomaks' are also a Muslim people, whom all the three nations (Bulgarians, Turks, and Greeks) consider as part of themselves. Do you know how the Muslim Turkish minority was organized according to the agreements? Poor 'Poly.' It also proves that the Turkish people are trapped in Greece and the Greek people are free to settle anywhere in the world. The Greek authorities deny even the existence of a Turkish minority. They pursue the same denial in connection with the Macedonians of Greece. Talk about oppression. In addition, in 1980 the 'democratic' Greek Parliament passed Law No. 1091, virtually taking over the administration of the vakiflar and other charitable trusts. They have ceased to be self-supporting religious and cultural entities. Talk about fascism. The Greek governments are attempting to appoint the muftus, irrespective of the will of the Turkish minority, as state official. Although the Orthodox Church has full authority in similar matters in Greece, the Muslim Turkish minority will have no say in electing its religious leaders. Talk about democracy. The government of Greece has recently destroyed an Islamic convention in Komotini. Such destruction, which reflects an attitude against the Muslim Turkish cultural heritage, is a violation of the Lausanne Convention as well as the 'so-called' Greek Constitution, which is supposed to guarantee the protection of historical monuments. The government of Greece, on the other hand, is building new churches in remote villages as a complementary step toward Hellenizing the region. And you pondered. Sidiropoulos, the president of the Macedonian Human Rights Committee, became the latest victim of a tactic long used by the Greeks to silence critics of policies of forced assimilation of the Macedonian minority. A forestry official by occupation, Sidiropoulos has been sent to 'internal exile' on the island of Kefalonia, hundreds of kilometers away from his native Florina. His employer, the Florina City Council, asked him to depart in 24 hours. The Greek authorities are trying to punish him for his involvement in Copenhagen. He returned to Florina by his own choice and remains without a job. Helsinki Watch, a well-known Human Rights group, had been investigating the plight of the Turkish Minority in Greece. In August 1990, their findings were published in a report titled 'Destroying Ethnic Identity: Turks of Greece.' The report confirmed gross violations of the Human Rights of the Turkish minority by the Greek authorities. It says for instance, the Greek government recently destroyed an Islamic convent in Komotini. Such destruction, which reflects an attitude against the Muslim Turkish cultural heritage, is a violation of the Lausanne Convention. The Turkish cemeteries in the village of Vafeika and in Pinarlik were attacked, and tombstones were broken. The cemetery in Karotas was razed by bulldozers. Shall I go on? Why not? The people of Turkiye are not going to take human rights lessons from the Greek Government. The discussion of human rights violations in Greece does not stop at the Greek frontier. In several following articles I shall dwell on and expose the Greek treatment of Turks in Western Thrace and the Aegean Macedonians. It has been reported that the Greek Cypriot administration has an intense desire for arms and that Greece has made plans to supply it with the tanks and armored vehicles it has to destroy in accordance with the agreement reached on conventional arms reductions in Europe. Meanwhile, Greek and Greek Cypriot officials are reported to have planned to take ostentatious measures aimed at camouflaging the transfer of these tanks and armored vehicles to southern Cyprus, a process that will conflict with the spirit of the agreement on conventional arms reduction in Europe. An acceptable method may certainly be found when there is a will. But we know of various kinds of violent behaviors ranging from physical attacks to the burning of buildings. The rugs at the Amfia village mosque were dragged out to the front of the building and burnt there. Shots were fired on the mosque in the village of Aryana. Now wait, there is more. 'Greek Atrocities in the Vilayet of Smyrna (May to July 1919), Inedited Documents and Evidence of English and French Officers,' Published by The Permanent Bureau of the Turkish Congress at Lausanne, Lausanne, Imprimerie Petter, Giesser & Held, Caroline, 5 (1919). pages 82-83: << 1. The train going from Denizli to Smyrna was stopped at Ephesus and the 90 Turkish travellers, men and women who were in it ordered to descend. And there in the open street, under the eyes of their husbands, fathers and brothers, the women without distinction of age were violated, and then all the travellers were massacred. Amongst the latter the Lieutenant Salih Effendi, a native of Tripoli, and a captain whose name is not known, and to whom the Hellenic authorities had given safe conduct, were killed with specially atrocious tortures. 2. Before the battle, the wife of the lawyer Enver Bey coming from her garden was maltreated by Greek soldiers, she was even stript of her garments and her servant Assie was violated. 3. The two tax gatherers Mustapha and Ali Effendi were killed in the following manner: Their arms were bound behind their backs with wire and their heads were battered and burst open with blows from the butt end of a gun. 4. During the firing of the town, eleven children, six little girls and five boys, fleeing from the flames, were stopped by Greek soldiers in the Ramazan Pacha quarter, and thrown into a burning Jewish house near bridge, where they were burnt alive. This fact is confirmed on oath by the retired commandant Hussein Hussni Effendi who saw it. 5. The clock-maker Ahmed Effendi and his son Sadi were arrested and dragged out of their shop. The son had his eyes put out and was then killed in the court of the Greek Church, but Ahmed Effendi has been no more heard of. 6. At the market, during the fire, two unknown people were wounded by bayonets, then bound together, thrown into the fire and burnt alive. The Greeks killed also many Jews. These are the names of some: Moussa Malki, shoemaker killed Bohor Levy, tailor killed Bohor Israel, cobbler killed Isaac Calvo, shoemaker killed David Aroguete killed Moussa Lerosse killed Gioia Katan killed Meryem Malki killed Soultan Gharib killed Isaac Sabah wounded Moche Fahmi wounded David Sabah wounded Moise Bensignor killed Sarah Bendi killed Jacob Jaffe wounded Aslan Halegna wounded....>> Serdar Argic
I have a MOSFET pulled out of a Trygon power supply, for which I have no manual. It's a Motorola part with a 1972 date code and the number 285-4
I've got a 386 motherboard for sale: i386-25DX processor w/2Mb RAM AMI BIOS w/setup Math Coprocessor socket 8 expansion slots Full sized motherboard--fits any full-sized case All manuals included Make me an offer! Reason for sale: I've got a new HP workstation to play with now :) Also: other peripherals (VGA card/moditor, TEAC Disk Drives, printer, etc) available. E-mail for more info.
yeah, just like we have here in the US. --
386DX 25Mhz (DTK motherboard Intel microprocessor) 128k internal cache 4 megs Ram 89 meg Harddrive (IDE controller) 1.2 meg floppy drive 1.44 meg floppy drive 2 serial ports 1 parallel port Samsung VGA monitor VGA graphics card 101 key keyboard 2400 baud internal modem MS-DOS 6.0 Procomm Plus ver. 2.0 Norton Utilities ver. 4.5 other varius utilities I'm upgrading and need to sell. The system is reliable and ready to go. I've never had any problems with it. I'm asking $1050 o.b.o. If you're interested, please respond by either E-mail or phone. TAE0460@zeus.tamu.edu or 409-696-6043
The federal civil rights trial against the four LA police officers accused of violating Rodney King's civil rights is now history: Lawrence Powell: guilty Stacey Coons: guilty Theodore Brazenio: innocent Timothy Wind: innocent Sentencing slated for mid August, appeals expected. So far, all is calm in LA... --
"Thinking if I could see, I would believe. Then someone said
1992 HONDA ACCORD FOR SALE 35,000 MILES ALL HIGHWAY MILES EXCELLENT CONDITION WHITE EX MODEL "LOADED" $15,000 OR BEST OFFER call tom @ (201) 653-0638 h (201) 795-5636 w
101 Courageous Dr. Leage City, TX 77573 Phone: (713) 538-6000 Good Luck! Doug
Society, as we have known it, it coming apart at the seams! The basic reason is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is "No Big Deal". Kid's see hundreds on murderous acts on TV, we can abort children on demand, and kill the sick and old at will. So why be surprised when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. They don't care because the message they hear is "Life is Cheap"!
It works on xterms. At least I have no problem with it. - Back to the original question: I usually start new xterms by selecting the proper menu entry in my desktop menu. Here is a sample command: xterm -sl 999 -n ls12i -title ls12i -e rlogin ls12i & The -n and -title options give the text for window and icon. As I use the tcsh (a wonderful extension of the csh), I can do the following: I have an alias precmd echo -n '^[]2\;${HOST}:$cwd^G' in my ~/.tcshrc. This is a special alias for tvtwm. It is executed each time before printing the prompt. So, I have the current host name and the current directory path in the title bar of my xterms. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ____ UniDo / Ingolf Markhof University of Dortmund, LS Informatik XII ___/ / P.O. Box 500 500, D-4600 Dortmund 50, F.R. Germany \ \ / Phone: +49 (231) 755 6142, Fax: +49 (231) 755 6555 \__\/ Email: markhof@ls12.informatik.uni-dortmund.de
I can't tell if Matt is being sarcastic here or not, but to be honest, many automobiles are worth far more to their owners (in $$ value and $$ investment) than the people that would take them. I don't have figures on average property tax in the U.S. or how much of it is allocated for housing projects, inferior public schools, jails, or the like, but I have a feeling that the amount the government steals from an honest, productive citizen to breed this trash is significantly less than the value of many automobiles. And for those who will argue that the animals out there stealing cars and everything else (not to mention committing COMPLETELY senseless acts of violence, such as rape) cannot be valued in terms of money because they are human beings, I submit that they are not human beings. Jim Callison, I think, is on the right track. And Chintan Amin remarked earlier that we cannot blame environment for the actions of a single criminal. I couldn't agree more. One could trace any crime back to the environment/upbringing of the criminal; should we let all of them out, from pickpockets to rapists to inside traders, because what they did wasn't their fault? Where does one draw the line? $0.02
: : What are the current products available to upgrade the resolution? : Which ones support postscript? : : Any experiences with them, either good or bad? : : Is the quality difference really noticable? : : I'm planning on producing camera ready copy of homes. Will the higher : resolution be noticed for these? : If you are talking about laser jet 4 then I believe it has to be postscript. I don't see any advantage to using PCL when you have a peice of hardware plugged into the LJ4 that is doing the work and it can support any language that is suited for the job. Besides I don't think PCL is even capable of handling 1200 dpi specifications. I only have experience with the Laser Master Winjet 1200 which brings the LJ4 up to 1200 dpi and it uses postscript. It also has a fast print mode which is not postscript, and it is at a lower resolution (600dpi I think), but it is FAST!!!! This particular product uses your host processor to process the postscript, so even with a decent PC you know it's going to be slow i.e. slow compared to a high-end workstation processed PS. The quality difference is very noticable and is almost worth the wait (for the PS processing) - I'm rather impatient. We were using it for B&W camera images (RS-170). The gray scale image was accepted by MS Word and handed to the Winjet PS printer driver which converts the image into postscript and then hands it off to the Winjets postscript processor. The postscript is rendered into RAM (lots of it) and when it is done it shoots it directly to the printer. The PS processor can also accept PS files created from other sources including DOS applications, but Windows has to be running at the time of printing. The PS processor is responsible for the halftoning and I'd say it does a pretty good job. Our camera images came out very good in my opinion. (not as good as Laser Master's demo though). I don't know how many other similar products are out there but I would be surprised if there are several.
Hello, While refurbishing our observatory I came across the above mentioned camera. It was manufactured by the Instrument Corporation of Florida ~ 1970. Now for my questions: 1) Does anyone have any knowledge of this equipement ? 2) Does anyone know of the company (phone numbers ?) ? 3) Are there any others out there...I need some parts. Any responces are greatly appreciated. take care, jamie
Yes. Look up XV_DEPTH. Also, you might want to try using XView colormap segments instead of Xlib for your colormap stuff. They will probably be easier for you to use, and since you are using a TrueColor visual, you won't be losing anything compared to straight Xlib.
(drieux, just drieux) writes (about the armed services): Well, uh, actually I agree.
I'll bet there's a runway nearby.
Not so. If you are thrown into a cage with a tiger and get mauled, do you blame the tiger?
FYI: The actual horizontal dot placement resoution of an HP deskjet is 1/600th inch. The electronics and dynamics of the ink cartridge, however, limit you to generating dots at 300 per inch. On almost any paper, the ink wicks more than 1/300th inch anyway. The method of depositing and fusing toner of a laster printer results in much less spread than ink drop technology. It doesn't take much investigation to see that the mechanical and electronic complement of a laser printer is more complex than inexpensive ink jet printers. Recall also that laser printers offer a much higher throughput: 10 ppm for a laser versus about 1 ppm for an ink jet printer. Something else to think about is the cost of consumables over the life of the printer. A 3000 page yield toner cartridge is about $US 75-80 at discount while HP high capacity (~500-1000 page yield) cartridges are about $US 22 at discount. It could be that over the life cycle of the printer that consumables for laser printers are less than ink jet printers. It is getting progressively closer between the two technologies. Laser printers are usually desinged for higher duty cycles in pages per month and longer product replacement cycles.
Enclosed are the rules, guidelines and related information for the 10th International Obfuscated C Code Contest. (This is part 2 of a 2 part shar file). Enjoy! chongo <Landon Curt Noll> /\oo/\ Larry Bassel =-= #!/bin/sh # This is part 02 of a multipart archive # ============= mkentry.c ============== echo "x - extracting mkentry.c (Text)" sed 's/^X//' << 'SHAR_EOF' > mkentry.c && X/* @(#)mkentry.c 1.24 3/1/93 02:28:49 */ X/* X * Copyright (c) Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel, 1993. X * All Rights Reserved. Permission for personal, education or non-profit use X * is granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its X * entirety and remains unaltered. All other uses must receive prior X * permission in writing from both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel. X */ X/* X * mkentry - make an International Obfuscated C Code Contest entry X * X * usage: X * mkentry -r remarks -b build -p prog.c -o ioccc.entry X * X * -r remarks file with remarks about the entry X * -b build file containing how prog.c should be built X * -p prog.c the obfuscated program source file X * -o ioccc.entry ioccc entry output file X * X * compile by: X * cc mkentry.c -o mkentry X */ X/* X * Placed in the public domain by Landon Curt Noll, 1992. X * X * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED X * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF X * MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. X */ X/* X * WARNING: X * X * This program attempts to implement the IOCCC rules. Every attempt X * has been made to make sure that this program produces an entry that X * conforms to the contest rules. In all cases, where this program X * differs from the contest rules, the contest rules will be used. Be X * sure to check with the contest rules before submitting an entry. X * X * Send questions or comments (but not entries) about the contest, to: X * X * ...!{sun,pacbell,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!judges X * judges@toad.com X * The rules and the guidelines may (and often do) change from year to X * year. You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines X * prior to submitting entries. To obtain all 3 of them, send Email X * to the address above and use the subject 'send rules'. X * X * Because contest rules change from year to year, one should only use this X * program for the year that it was intended. Be sure that the RULE_YEAR X * define below matches this current year. X */ X X#include <stdio.h> X#include <ctype.h> X#include <time.h> X#include <sys/types.h> X#include <sys/stat.h> X X/* logic */ X#ifndef TRUE X# define TRUE 1 X#endif /* TRUE */ X#ifndef FALSE X# define FALSE 0 X#endif /* FALSE */ X#define EOF_OK TRUE X#define EOF_NOT_OK FALSE X X/* global limits */ X#define RULE_YEAR 1993 /* NOTE: should match the current year */ X#define START_DATE "1Mar92 0:00 UTC" /* first confirmation received */ X#define MAX_COL 79 /* max column a line should hit */ X#define MAX_BUILD_SIZE 256 /* max how to build size */ X#define MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE 3217 /* max program source size */ X#define MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE2 1536 /* max program source size not counting X whitespace and {}; not followed by X whitespace or EOF */ X#define MAX_TITLE_LEN 12 /* max chars in the title */ X#define MAX_ENTRY_LEN 1 /* max length in the entry input line */ X#define MAX_ENTRY 8 /* max number of entries per person per year */ X#define MAX_FILE_LEN 1024 /* max filename length for a info file */ X X/* where to send entries */ X#define ENTRY_ADDR1 "...!{apple,pyramid,sun,uunet}!hoptoad!obfuscate" X#define ENTRY_ADDR2 "obfuscate@toad.com" X X/* uuencode process - assumes ASCII */ X#define UUENCODE(c) (encode_str[(int)(c)&0xff]) X#define UUENCODE_LEN 45 /* max uuencode chunk size */ X#define UUINFO_MODE 0444 /* mode of an info file's uuencode file */ X#define UUBUILD_MODE 0444 /* mode of the build file's uuencode file */ X#define UUBUILD_NAME "build" /* name for the build file's uuencode file */ X#define UUPROG_MODE 0444 /* mode of the program's uuencode file */ X#define UUPROG_NAME "prog.c" /* name for the program's uuencode file */ X X/* encode_str[(char)val] is the uuencoded character of val */ Xchar encode_str[256+1] = "`!\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_ !\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_ !\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_ !\"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\\]^_"; X X/* global declarations */ Xchar *program; /* our name */ Xlong start_time; /* the startup time */ X X/* forward declarations */ Xvoid parse_args(); Xvoid usage(); XFILE *open_remark(); XFILE *open_build(); XFILE *open_program(); XFILE *open_output(); Xvoid output_entry(); Xvoid output_remark(); Xvoid output_author(); Xvoid output_info(); Xvoid output_build(); Xvoid output_program(); Xvoid output_end(); Xint get_line(); Xvoid output_till_dot(); Xint col_len(); Xvoid check_io(); Xvoid uuencode(); X Xmain(argc, argv) X int argc; /* arg count */ X char **argv; /* the args */ X{ X FILE *remark=NULL; /* open remarks stream */ X FILE *build=NULL; /* open build file stream */ X FILE *prog=NULL; /* open program stream */ X FILE *output=NULL; /* open output stream */ X char *rname=NULL; /* file with remarks about the entry */ X char *bname=NULL; /* file containing how prog.c should be built */ X char *pname=NULL; /* the obfuscated program source file */ X char *oname=NULL; /* ioccc entry output file */ X struct tm *tm; /* startup time structure */ X X /* X * check on the year X */ X start_time = time((long *)0); X tm = gmtime(&start_time); X if (tm->tm_year != RULE_YEAR-1900) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: WARNING: this program applies to %d, which may differ from %d\n\n", X argv[0], RULE_YEAR, 1900+tm->tm_year); X } X X /* X * parse the command line args X */ X parse_args(argc, argv, &rname, &bname, &pname, &oname); X X /* X * open/check the input and output files X * X * We open and truncate the output file first, in case it is the same X * as one of the input files. X */ X output = open_output(oname); X remark = open_remark(rname); X build = open_build(bname); X prog = open_program(pname); X if (output==NULL || remark==NULL || build==NULL || prog==NULL) { X exit(1); X } X X /* X * output each section X */ X output_entry(output, oname); X output_remark(output, oname, remark, rname); X output_author(output, oname); X output_info(output, oname); X output_build(output, oname, build, bname); X output_program(output, oname, prog, pname); X output_end(output, oname); X X /* X * flush the output X */ X if (fflush(output) == EOF) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: flush error in %s: ", program, oname); X perror(""); X exit(2); X } X X /* X * final words X */ X printf("\nYour entry can be found in %s. You should check this file\n", X oname); X printf("correct any problems and verify that the uudecode utility will\n"); X printf("correctly decode your build file and program.\n\n"); X printf("This program has been provided as a guide for submitters. In\n"); X printf("cases where it conflicts with the rules, the rules shall apply.\n"); X printf("It is your responsibility to ensure that your entry conforms to\n"); X printf("the current rules.\n\n"); X printf("Email your entries to:\n"); X printf("\t%s\n", ENTRY_ADDR1); X printf("\t%s\n\n", ENTRY_ADDR2); X printf("Please use the following subject when you Email your entry:\n"); X printf("\tioccc entry\n\n"); X /* all done */ X exit(0); X} X X/* X * parse_args - parse the command line args X * X * Given the command line args, this function parses them and sets the X * required name flags. This function will return only if the command X * line syntax is correct. X */ Xvoid Xparse_args(argc, argv, rname, bname, pname, oname) X int argc; /* arg count */ X char **argv; /* the args */ X char **rname; /* file with remarks about the entry */ X char **bname; /* file containing how prog.c should be built */ X char **pname; /* the obfuscated program source file */ X char **oname; /* ioccc entry output file */ X{ X char *optarg; /* -flag option operand */ X int flagname; /* the name of the -flag */ X int i; X X /* X * Not everyone has getopt, so we must parse args by hand. X */ X program = argv[0]; X for (i=1; i < argc; ++i) { X X /* determine the flagname */ X if (argv[i][0] != '-') { X usage(1); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } X flagname = (int)argv[i][1]; X X /* determine the flag's operand */ X if (flagname != '\0' && argv[i][2] != '\0') { X optarg = &argv[i][2]; X } else { X if (i+1 >= argc) { X usage(2); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } else { X optarg = argv[++i]; X } X } X X /* save the flag's operand in the correct global variable */ X switch (flagname) { X case 'r': X *rname = optarg; X break; X case 'b': X *bname = optarg; X break; X case 'p': X *pname = optarg; X break; X case 'o': X *oname = optarg; X break; X default: X usage(3); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } X } X X /* X * verify that we have all of the required flags X */ X if (*rname == NULL || *bname == NULL || *pname == NULL || *oname == NULL) { X usage(4); X /*NOTREACHED*/ X } X return; X} X X/* X * usage - print a usage message and exit X * X * This function does not return. X */ Xvoid Xusage(exitval) X int exitval; /* exit with this value */ X{ X fprintf(stderr, X "usage: %s -r remarks -b build -p prog.c -o ioccc.entry\n\n", program); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-r remarks\tfile with remarks about the entry\n"); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-b build\tfile containing how prog.c should be built\n"); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-p prog.c\tthe obfuscated program source file\n"); X fprintf(stderr, "\t-o ioccc.entry\tioccc entry output file\n"); X exit(exitval); X} X X/* X * open_remark - open/check the remark file X * X * The remark file should be indented by 4 spaces, and should not extend X * beyond column MAX_COL. These are not requirements, so we only warn. X * X * This function returns NULL on I/O or format error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_remark(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X char buf[BUFSIZ+1]; /* input buffer */ X int toolong=0; /* number of lines that are too long */ X int non_indent=0; /* number of lines not indented by 4 spaces */ X X /* X * open the remark input file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "r"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open remark file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X X /* X * look at each line X */ X while (fgets(buf, BUFSIZ, stream) != NULL) { X X /* count lines that do not start with 4 spaces */ X if (buf[0] != '\n' && strncmp(buf, " ", 4) != 0) { X ++non_indent; X } X X /* count long lines */ X if (col_len(buf) > MAX_COL) { X /* found a line that is too long */ X ++toolong; X } X } X X /* watch for I/O errors */ X check_io(stream, filename, EOF_OK); X X /* note long lines if needed */ X if (toolong > 0) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: WARNING: %d line(s) from %s extend beyond the 80th column\n", X program, toolong, filename); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: This is ok, but it would be nice to avoid\n\n", X program); X } X X /* note non-indented lines, if needed */ X if (non_indent > 0) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: WARNING: %d line(s) from %s are not indented by 4 spaces\n", X program, non_indent, filename); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: This is ok, but it would be nice to avoid\n\n", X program); X } X X /* return the open file */ X rewind(stream); X return(stream); X} X X/* X * open_build - open/check the build file X * X * The how to build file must not be longer than MAX_BUILD_SIZE bytes. X * X * This function returns NULL on I/O or size error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_build(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X struct stat statbuf; /* the status of the open file */ X X /* X * open the how to build input file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "r"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open how to build file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X X /* X * determine the size of the file X */ X if (fstat(fileno(stream), &statbuf) < 0) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot stat how to build file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X if (statbuf.st_size > MAX_BUILD_SIZE) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: FATAL: the how to build file: %s, is %d bytes long\n", X program, filename, statbuf.st_size); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: it may not be longer than %d bytes\n", X program, MAX_BUILD_SIZE); X return(NULL); X } X X /* return the open file */ X return(stream); X} X X/* X * open_program - open/check the program source file X * X * The program source file must be <= 3217 bytes. The number of X * non-whitespace and }{; chars not followed by whitespace must X * be <= 1536 bytes. X * X * This function returns NULL on I/O or size error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_program(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X struct stat statbuf; /* the status of the open file */ X int count; /* special count size */ X int c; /* the character read */ X X /* X * open the program source input file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "r"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open program source file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X exit(7); X } X X /* X * determine the size of the file X */ X if (fstat(fileno(stream), &statbuf) < 0) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot stat program source file: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X return(NULL); X } X if (statbuf.st_size > MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: FATAL: the program source file: %s, is %d bytes long\n", X program, filename, statbuf.st_size); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: it may not be longer than %d bytes\n", X program, MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE); X return(NULL); X } X X /* X * count the non-whitespace, non {}; followed by whitespace chars X */ X count = 0; X c = 0; X while ((c=fgetc(stream)) != EOF) { X /* look at non-whitespace */ X if (!isascii(c) || !isspace(c)) { X switch (c) { X case '{': /* count if not followed by EOF or whitespace */ X case '}': X case ';': X /* peek at next char */ X c = fgetc(stream); X if (c != EOF && isascii(c) && !isspace(c)) { X /* not followed by whitespace or EOF, count it */ X ungetc(c, stream); X ++count; X } X break; X default: X ++count; X break; X } X } X } X X /* watch for I/O errors */ X check_io(stream, filename, EOF_OK); X X /* look at the special size */ X if (count > MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE2) { X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: FATAL: the number of bytes that are non-whitespace, and\n", X program); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: that are not '{', '}', ';' followed by whitespace\n", X program); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: or EOF must be <= %d bytes\n", X program, MAX_PROGRAM_SIZE2); X fprintf(stderr, X "%s: in %s, %d bytes were found\n", X program, filename, count); X return(NULL); X } X X /* return the open file */ X rewind(stream); X return(stream); X} X X/* X * open_output - open/check the entry output file X * X * This function returns NULL on open error. X */ XFILE * Xopen_output(filename) X char *filename; X{ X FILE *stream; /* the opened file stream */ X X /* X * open the ioccc entry output file X */ X stream = fopen(filename, "w"); X if (stream == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: cannot open ioccc entry file for output: %s: ", X program, filename); X perror(""); X exit(8); X } X X /* return the open file */ X return(stream); X} X X/* X * output_entry - output the ---entry--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the entry section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_entry(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X char title[MAX_TITLE_LEN+1+1]; /* the entry's title */ X char buf[MAX_COL+1+1]; /* I/O buffer */ X int entry=0; /* entry number */ X int ret; /* fields processed by fscanf */ X int ok_line=0; /* 0 => the line is not ok */ X char skip; /* input to skip */ X FILE *date_pipe; /* pipe to a date command */ X time_t epoch_sec; /* seconds since the epoch */ X char *p; X X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---entry---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the rule year X */ X fprintf(output, "rule:\t%d\n", RULE_YEAR); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* determine if this is a fix */ X printf("Is this a fix, update or resubmittion to a "); X printf("previous entry (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(buf, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(buf[0]=='y' || buf[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X if (buf[0] == 'y') { X fprintf(output, "fix:\ty\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X printf("\nBe sure that the title and entry number that you give\n"); X printf("are the same of as the entry you are replacing\n"); X } else { X fprintf(output, "fix:\tn\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X X /* X * write the title X */ X printf("\nYour title must match expression be a [a-zA-Z0-9_=] character\n"); X printf("followed by 0 to %d more [a-zA-Z0-9_=+-] characters.\n\n", X MAX_TITLE_LEN-1); X printf("It is suggested, but not required, that the title should\n"); X printf("incorporate your username; in the\n"); X printf("case of multiple authors, consider using parts of the usernames\n"); X printf("of the authors.\n\n"); X printf("enter your title: "); X do { X /* prompt and read a line */ X if ((ok_line = get_line(title, MAX_TITLE_LEN+1, MAX_COL-9)) <= 0) { X printf("\ntitle is too long, please re-enter: "); X continue; X } X X /* verify the pattern, not everyone has regexp, so do it by hand */ X if (!isascii((int)title[0]) || X !(isalnum((int)title[0]) || title[0] == '_' || title[0] == '=')) { X printf("\ninvalid first character in the title\n\n"); X printf("enter your title: "); X ok_line = 0; X } else { X for (p=(&title[1]); *p != '\0' && *p != '\n'; ++p) { X if (!isascii((int)*p) || X !(isalnum((int)*p) || X *p == '_' || *p == '=' || *p == '+' || *p == '-')) { X printf("\ninvalid character in the title\n\n"); X printf("enter your title: "); X ok_line = 0; X } X } X } X } while (ok_line <= 0); X fprintf(output, "title:\t%s", title); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the entry number X */ X printf("\nEach person may submit up to %d entries per year.\n\n", X MAX_ENTRY); X printf("enter an entry number from 0 to %d inclusive: ", MAX_ENTRY-1); X do { X /* get a valid input line */ X fflush(stdout); X ret = fscanf(stdin, "%d[\n]", &entry); X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X /* skip over input until newline is found */ X do { X skip = fgetc(stdin); X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X if (skip != '\n') { X /* bad text in input, invalidate entry number */ X entry = -1; X } X } while (skip != '\n'); X X /* check if we have a number, and if it is in range */ X if (ret != 1 || entry < 0 || entry > MAX_ENTRY-1) { X printf( X "\nThe entry number must be between 0 and %d inclusive\n\n", X MAX_ENTRY-1); X printf("enter the entry number: "); X } X } while (ret != 1 || entry < 0 || entry > MAX_ENTRY-1); X fprintf(output, "entry:\t%d\n", entry); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the submission date X */ X /* returns a newline */ X epoch_sec = time(NULL); X fprintf(output, "date:\t%s", asctime(gmtime(&epoch_sec))); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * write the OS/machine host information X */ X printf( X "\nEnter the machine(s) and OS(s) under which your entry was tested.\n"); X output_till_dot(output, oname, "host:"); X} X X/* X * output_remark - output the ---remark--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the entry section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_remark(output, oname, remark, rname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X FILE *remark; /* stream to the file containing remark text */ X char *rname; /* name of the remark file */ X{ X char buf[BUFSIZ+1]; /* input/output buffer */ X X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---remark---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * copy the remark file to the section X */ X while (fgets(buf, BUFSIZ, remark) != NULL) { X fputs(buf, output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X check_io(remark, rname, EOF_OK); X X /* be sure that the remark section ends with a newline */ X if (buf[strlen(buf)-1] != '\n') { X fputc('\n', output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X} X X/* X * output_author - output the ---author--- section X * X * Read the needed information from stdin, and write the author section. X * If multiple authors exist, multiple author sections will be written. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_author(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X char buf[MAX_COL+1+1]; /* I/O buffer */ X int more_auths; /* TRUE => more authors to note */ X int auth_cnt=0; /* number of authors processed */ X X /* X * prompt the user for the author section X */ X printf("\nEnter information about each author. If your entry is after\n"); X printf("%s and before the contest deadline, the judges\n", START_DATE); X printf("will attempt to Email back a confirmation to the first author\n"); X X /* X * place author information for each author in an individual section X */ X do { X X /* write the start of the section */ X fprintf(output, "---author---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* write the author */ X printf("\nAuthor #%d name: ", ++auth_cnt); X while (get_line(buf, MAX_COL+1, MAX_COL-9) <= 0) { X printf("\nname too long, please re-enter: "); X } X fprintf(output, "name:\t%s", buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* write the organization */ X printf("\nEnter the School/Company/Organization of author #%d\n", X auth_cnt); X printf("\nAuthor #%d org: ", auth_cnt); X while (get_line(buf, MAX_COL+1, MAX_COL-9) <= 0) { X printf("\nline too long, please re-enter: "); X } X fprintf(output, "org:\t%s", buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* write the address */ X printf( X "\nEnter the postal address for author #%d. Be sure to include\n", X auth_cnt); X printf("your country and do not include your name.\n"); X output_till_dot(output, oname, "addr:"); X X /* write the Email address */ X printf( X "\nEnter the Email address for author #%d. Use an address from\n", X auth_cnt); X printf( X "a registered domain or well known site. If you give several\n"); X printf("forms, list them one per line.\n"); X output_till_dot(output, oname, "email:"); X X /* write the anonymous status */ X printf("\nShould author #%d remain anonymous (enter y or n)? ", X auth_cnt); X while (get_line(buf, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(buf[0]=='y' || buf[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X fprintf(output, "anon:\t%s", buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* determine if there is another author */ X printf("\nIs there another author (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(buf, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(buf[0]=='y' || buf[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X if (buf[0] == 'y') { X more_auths = TRUE; X } else { X more_auths = FALSE; X } X } while (more_auths == TRUE); X return; X} X X/* X * output_info - output the ---info--- section(s) X * X * Read the needed information from stdin, and write the info section. X * If multiple info files exist, multiple info sections will be written. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_info(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X char infoname[MAX_FILE_LEN+1]; /* filename buffer */ X char yorn[1+1]; /* y or n answer */ X char *uuname; /* name to uuencode as */ X FILE *infile; /* info file stream */ X X /* X * prompt the user for info information X */ X printf("\nInfo files should be used only to supplement your entry.\n"); X printf("For example, info files may provide sample input or detailed\n"); X printf("information about your entry. Because they are supplemental,\n"); X printf("the entry should not require them to exist.\n\n"); X X /* X * while there is another info file to save, uuencode it X */ X printf("Do you have a info file to include (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(yorn, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(yorn[0]=='y' || yorn[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X while (yorn[0] == 'y') { X X /* read the filename */ X printf("\nEnter the info filename: "); X while (get_line(infoname, MAX_FILE_LEN+1, 0) <= 0) { X printf("\nInfo filename too long, please re-enter: "); X } X X /* compute the basename of the info filename */ X /* remove the trailing newline */ X uuname = &infoname[strlen(infoname)-1]; X *uuname = '\0'; X /* avoid rindex/shrrchr compat issues, do it by hand */ X for (--uuname; uuname > infoname; --uuname) { X if (*uuname == '/') { X ++uuname; X break; X } X } X X /* attempt to open the info file */ X infile = fopen(infoname, "r"); X if (infile == NULL) { X fprintf(stderr, "\n%s: cannot open info file: %s: ", X program, infoname); X perror(""); X continue; X } X X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---info---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* uuencode the info file */ X uuencode(output, oname, infile, infoname, UUINFO_MODE, uuname); X X printf("\nDo you have another info file to include (enter y or n)? "); X while (get_line(yorn, 1+1, 0) <= 0 || !(yorn[0]=='y' || yorn[0]=='n')) { X printf("\nplease answer y or n: "); X } X }; X return; X} X X/* X * output_build - output the ---build--- section X * X * Read the needed information from stdin, and write the build section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_build(output, oname, build, bname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X FILE *build; /* open build file stream */ X char *bname; /* name of the build file */ X{ X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---build---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * uuencode the program file X */ X uuencode(output, oname, build, bname, UUBUILD_MODE, UUBUILD_NAME); X return; X} X X/* X * output_program - output the ---program--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the program section. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_program(output, oname, prog, pname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X FILE *prog; /* open program stream */ X char *pname; /* name of program file */ X{ X /* X * write the start of the section X */ X fprintf(output, "---program---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * uuencode the program file X */ X uuencode(output, oname, prog, pname, UUPROG_MODE, UUPROG_NAME); X return; X} X X/* X * output_end - output the ---end--- section X * X * Read the needed information form stdin, and write the 'end section'. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_end(output, oname) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X{ X /* X * write the final section terminator X */ X fprintf(output, "---end---\n"); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X return; X} X X/* X * get_line - get an answer from stdin X * X * This function will flush stdout, in case a prompt is pending, and X * read in the answer. X * X * This function returns 0 if the line is too long, of the length of the X * line (including the newline) of the line was ok. This function does X * not return if ERROR or EOF. X */ Xint Xget_line(buf, siz, maxcol) X char *buf; /* input buffer */ X int siz; /* length of input, including the newline */ X int maxcol; /* max col allowed, 0 => disable check */ X{ X int length; /* the length of the input line */ X X /* flush terminal output */ X fflush(stdout); X X /* read the line */ X if (fgets(buf, siz+1, stdin) == NULL) { X /* report the problem */ X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X } X X /* look for the newline */ X length = strlen(buf); X if (buf[length-1] != '\n') { X int eatchar; /* the char being eaten */ X X /* no newline found, line must be too long, eat the rest of the line */ X do { X eatchar = fgetc(stdin); X } while (eatchar != EOF && eatchar != '\n'); X check_io(stdin, "stdin", EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* report the situation */ X return 0; X } X X /* watch for long lines, if needed */ X if (maxcol > 0 && (length > maxcol || col_len(buf) > maxcol)) { X /* report the situation */ X return 0; X } X X /* return length */ X return length; X} X X/* X * output_till_dot - output a set of lines until '.' by itself is read X * X * This routine will read a set of lines until (but not including) X * a single line with '.' is read. The format of the output is: X * X * leader:\tfirst line X * \tnext line X * \tnext line X * ... X * X * This routine will not return if I/O error or EOF. X */ Xvoid Xoutput_till_dot(output, oname, leader) X FILE *output; /* entry's output file stream */ X char *oname; /* name of the output file */ X char *leader; /* the lead text for the first line */ X{ X char buf[BUFSIZ+1]; /* input buffer */ X int count; /* lines read */ X int done=FALSE; /* TRUE => finished reading input */ X X /* instruct the user on how to input */ X printf("\nTo end input, enter a line with a single period.\n"); X X /* read lines until '.' or EOF */ X count = 0; X while (!done) { X /* issue the prompt */ X printf("%s\t", (count>0) ? "" : leader); X fflush(stdout); X X /* get the line */ X if (get_line(buf, BUFSIZ, MAX_COL-9) <= 0) { X printf("\nline too long, please re-enter:\n\t"); X continue; X } X X /* note if '.' was read */ X if (strcmp(buf, ".\n") == 0) { X done = TRUE; X } X X /* write line if we read something */ X if (!done) { X fprintf(output, "%s\t%s", (count++>0) ? "" : leader, buf); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X } X X /* if no lines read, at least output something */ X if (count <= 0) { X fprintf(output, "%s\t.\n", leader); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X return; X} X X/* X * col_len - determine the highest that a string would reach X * X * Given a string, this routine returns that a string would reach X * if the string were printed at column 1. Tab stops are assumed X * to start at 9, 17, 25, 33, ... X */ Xint Xcol_len(string) X char *string; /* the string to examine */ X{ X int col; /* current column */ X char *p; /* current char */ X X /* scan the string */ X for (col=0, p=string; *p != '\0' && *p != '\n'; ++p) { X /* note the column shift */ X col = (*p=='\t') ? 1+((col+8)/8*8) : col+1; X } X if (*p == '\n') { X --col; X } X X /* return the highest column */ X return col; X} X X/* X * check_io - check for EOF or I/O error on a stream X * X * Does not return if EOF or I/O error. X */ Xvoid Xcheck_io(stream, name, eof_ok) X FILE *stream; /* the stream to check */ X char *name; /* the name of this stream */ X int eof_ok; /* EOF_OK or EOF_NOT_OK */ X{ X /* test for I/O error */ X if (ferror(stream)) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: error on %s: ", program, name); X perror(""); X exit(1); X X /* test for EOF */ X } else if (eof_ok == EOF_NOT_OK && feof(stream)) { X fprintf(stderr, "%s: EOF on %s\n", program, name); X exit(1); X } X return; X} X X/* X * uuencode - uuencode a file X * X * Perform the uuencoding process identical to the process performed X * by the uuencode(1) utility. X * X * This routine implements the algorithm described in the uuencode(5) X * 4.3BSD Reno man page. X */ Xvoid Xuuencode(output, oname, infile, iname, umode, uname) X FILE *output; /* output file stream */ X char *oname; /* output filename */ X FILE *infile; /* input file stream */ X char *iname; /* input filename */ X int umode; /* the mode to put on the uuencode file */ X char *uname; /* name to put on the uuencode file */ X{ X char buf[UUENCODE_LEN+1]; /* the uuencode buffer */ X int read_len; /* actual number of chars read */ X int val; /* 6 bit chunk from buf */ X char filler='\0'; /* filler uuencode pad text */ X char *p; X X /* X * output the initial uuencode header X */ X fprintf(output, "begin %o %s\n", umode, uname); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * clear out the input buffer X */ X for (p=buf; p < &buf[sizeof(buf)/sizeof(buf[0])]; ++p) { X *p = '\0'; X } X X /* X * We will process UUENCODE_LEN chars at a time, forming X * a single output line each time. X */ X while ((read_len=fread(buf,sizeof(buf[0]),UUENCODE_LEN,infile)) > 0) { X X /* X * the first character is the length character X */ X fputc(UUENCODE(read_len), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * We will convert 24 bits at a time. Thus we will convert X * 3 sets of 8 bits into 4 sets of uuencoded 6 bits. X */ X for (p=buf; read_len>0; read_len-=3, p+=3) { X X /* bits 0 to 5 */ X val = (p[0]>>2)&0x3f; X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* bits 6 to 11 */ X val = ((p[0]<<4)&0x30) | ((p[1]>>4)&0x0f); X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* bits 12 to 17 */ X val = ((p[1]<<2)&0x3c) | ((p[2]>>6)&0x03); X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* bits 18 to 23 */ X val = p[2]&0x3f; X fputc(UUENCODE(val), output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X } X X /* end of UUENCODE_LEN line */ X fputc('\n', output); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X X /* X * clear out the input buffer (don't depend on bzero() or memset()) X */ X for (p=buf; p < &buf[sizeof(buf)/sizeof(buf[0])]; ++p) { X *p = '\0'; X } X } X X /* check the last read on the input file */ X check_io(infile, iname, EOF_OK); X X /* write end of uuencode file */ X fprintf(output, "%c\nend\n", UUENCODE(filler)); X check_io(output, oname, EOF_NOT_OK); X} SHAR_EOF chmod 0444 mkentry.c || echo "restore of mkentry.c failed" set `wc -c mkentry.c`;Wc_c=$1 if test "$Wc_c" != "33961"; then echo original size 33961, current size $Wc_c fi # ============= obfuscate.info ============== echo "x - extracting obfuscate.info (Text)" sed 's/^X//' << 'SHAR_EOF' > obfuscate.info && X1993 Obfuscated contest information X XCopyright (c) Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel, 1993. XAll Rights Reserved. Permission for personal, education or non-profit use is Xgranted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety Xand remains unaltered. All other uses must receive prior permission in writing Xfrom both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel. X XThe International Obfuscated C Code Contest (IOCCC), in the sprit of Xco-operation, is willing mention other programming contents, as space Xpermits. X XHow to have your contest included in this file: X X If you wish the IOCCC judges to include your contest in this file, X send a request to: X X judges@toad.com X X We request that contest descriptions be limited to 50 lines and to X not exceed 2500 bytes. We typically request that your contest X include a current description of the IOCCC. X X In order to be included in this file for given year, we must X receive a current description no EARLIER than Jan 1 00:00:00 UTC and X no LATER than Feb 15 00:00:00 UTC. Agreement to publish your X contest must also be obtained prior to Feb 15. Annual contests X that fail to submit a new entry will be dropped from this file. X XOfficial Disclaimer: (pardon the officialese) X X The contents noted below, other than the IOCCC, are not affiliated X with the IOCCC, nor are they endorsed by the IOCCC. We reserve the X right to refuse to print information about a given contest. X X The information below was provided by the particular contest X organizer(s) and printed by permission. Please contact the X contest organizer(s) directly regarding their contents. X XWith that official notice given, we present for your ENJOYMENT, the following Xinformation about contents: X X--------------------------------------------------------------------------- X X 10th International Obfuscated C Contest X X "The original obfuscated contest" X X Obfuscate: tr.v. -cated, -cating, -cates. 1. a. To render obscure. X b. To darken. 2. To confuse: Their emotions obfuscated X their judgment. [LLat. obfuscare, to darken : ob(intensive) + X Lat. fuscare, to darken < fuscus, dark.] -obfuscation n. X obfuscatory adj. X X GOALS OF THE CONTEST: X X * To write the most Obscure/Obfuscated C program under the rules below. X * To show the importance of programming style, in an ironic way. X * To stress C compilers with unusual code. X * To illustrate some of the subtleties of the C language. X * To provide a safe forum for poor C code. :-) X X The IOCCC is the grandfather of USENET programming contests. Since X 1984, this contest demonstrated that a program that mearly works X correctly is not sufficient. The IOCCC has also done much to add X the arcane word 'obfuscated' back into the English language. X (see "The New Hacker's Dictionary" by Eric Raymond) X X You are strongly encouraged to read the new contest rules before X sending any entries. The rules, and sometimes the contest Email X address itself, change over time. A valid entry one year may X be rejected in a later year due to changes in the rules. The typical X start date for contests is in early March. Contest rules are normally not X finalized and posted until the beginning of the contest. The typical X closing date for contests are in early May. X X The contest rules are posted to comp.unix.wizards, comp.lang.c, X misc.misc, alt.sources and comp.sources.d. If you do not have access X to these groups, or if you missed the early March posting, you may X request a copy from the judges, via Email, at; X X judges@toad.com -or- ...!{sun,uunet,utzoo,pyramid}!hoptoad!judges X X Previous contest winners are available via anonymous ftp from X ftp.uu.net under the directory /pub/ioccc. X X--------------------------------------------------------------------------- X X 0th International Obfuscated Perl Contest X By: Landon Noll & Larry Wall X X This content is being planned. Someday when Landon & Larry are not too X busy, they will actually get around to posting the first set of rules! X X but other existing projects got in the way. Hopefully X something will be developed after Nov 1993." X X--------------------------------------------------------------------------- X X 2nd International obFUsCaTeD POsTsCripT Contest X Jonathan Monsarrat (jgm@cs.brown.edu) X Alena Lacova (alena@nikhef.nl) X X A contest of programming skills and knowledge, exclusively for the X PostScript programming language. Its purpose: X X * To spread knowledge of PostScript and its details. X * To applaud those with the best tricks. X * To prove that humans can beat those damnable machine generators at X their own game by writing the most obscure and mysterious PostScript X programs ever. X X Winners will receive the fame and attention that goes with having their X program entry posted as a winner to programmers world-wide. X X The 1993 contest rules and results are available by ftp as X ``wilma.cs.brown.edu:pub/postscript/obfuscated*.shar'', or individually X in the obfuscated directory. The judges will post the 1994 rules X in November to comp.lang.postscript on Usenet, and other places. X Send questions to jgm@cs.brown.edu. X X Categories include: Best Obfuscated PostScript, Best Artwork, X Most Compact, Best Interactive Program, Most Useful, and X anything so unusual and creative that it deserves an award. X X The judges will choose the winners of each category. X X Alena Lacova is a system administrator at NIKHEF (Institute for High X Energy and Nuclear Physics) in the Netherlands. She is the author of X The PostScript Chaos Programs, which draw Julia sets, Mandelbrot sets X and other kinds of fractal functions. X X Jonathan Monsarrat is a graduate student from MIT and Brown University X in the U.S.A. He is the FAQ maintainer for the Usenet newsgroup X comp.lang.postscript and the author of The PostScript Zone and LameTeX. X . X SHAR_EOF chmod 0444 obfuscate.info || echo "restore of obfuscate.info failed" set `wc -c obfuscate.info`;Wc_c=$1 if test "$Wc_c" != "6257"; then echo original size 6257, current size $Wc_c fi exit 0
Oops, I forgot to set read permission. It's fixed now. ftp netcom.com login: anonymous password: your@email.address cd pub/mvp binary get clinton.zip You need pkzip 2.x or the latest net.zip to un-"deflate" this. Economic stats since Day One, plus all of the myriad ways Slick Willie and the Gang of 535 are preparing to do it to us. From Ron Brown's desk, so any distortion is pro-Democrat, can you believe it?
We are trying to connect an Olivetti XM4311 5" floppy drive as the second drive on a Panasonic 286 machine. It seems to sort of talk to it (gets it spinning and stepping) but gives a "Disk not ready" error. There are two jumpers (which seem to work best open), a 3 position DIP switch, and a 8 position DIP switch. We don't know how to set the DIP switches and think that may be the problem. Any information, or advice (other than "junk the stupid thing" :) would be most appreciated, thanks. (email reply preferred).
The rubber drain plugs under my carpet in my mazda glc leaked like the ones are doing under your spare in the Probe. I tooke them out and put some silicone sealant on them and put them back in.
The DEA and other organizations would have the American people believe that we are winning the "war on drugs". I'm going to dispel the propaganda that the DEA is putting out by showing you the drug war's *real* status. To help prove my assertions I've also posted two articles from USA Today that clearly demonstrate that drug use among certain age groups *is* on the rise. If WOD is working, as we're led to believe, then drug abuse should have gone down substantially by now. The reality is, is that it has not gone down very much. If anything, substance abuse is on the rise. I'm also going to supply a possible solution to this problem. The following text is an excerpt from an article about rock music and pot entitled "Hello Again, Mary Jane" which appears in the current issue of Time magazine (April 19, 1993, p. 59). Law-enforcement officials say pot advocates are just blowing smoke when they talk about the comeback of the weed. "Perhaps because of the change of administrations, the marijuana lobby is out in full force," says Robert Bonner, head of the Drug Enforcement Administration. "The fact is, they're losing the battle." In 1985 more than 23% of youths ages 12 to 17 said they smoked marijuana; in 1991 that figure was 13%, and Bonner says it is still falling. Bonner also offers a reminder that studies confirm such marijuana health risks as destruction of nerve cells in the brain and lung damage. The chart that follows was taken from the Wednesday, April 14, 1993 issue of USA Today ("Drug Use Up Among U.S. Eigth-graders" by Mike Snider, p. 6D). Adolescents' choices Drugs used by eighth graders in the last month: Estimated, per 100 students 1991 1992 Pct. chg. Alcohol 25.1 26.1 +4% Cigarettes 14.3 15.5 +8% Marijuana 3.2 3.7 +16% Amphetamines 2.6 3.3 +27% LSD 0.6 0.9 +50% Cocaine 0.5 0.7 +40% Crack 0.3 0.5 +67% Source: University of Michigan Institute for Social Research, 1993 report We are not winning the "war on drugs". I think you can see that one of the tactics that the DEA employs to give people the impression that the "war on drugs" is being won is to selectively quote statistics--- only statistics that support their contention that drug use has gone down. The excerpt from Time magazine that I included in this post is an excellent example of how organizations like the DEA attempt to deceive the public. Usage of *one* particular drug may have gone down but at the same time usage of other drugs may have gone *up* (a.k.a. substitution). Also, drug usage among *one* particular age group may have gone down but drug usage among another age group may have gone *up*. Therefore, if one takes a look at the big picture, taking into consideration *all* the statistics, then it's obvious that the so-called "war on drugs" is being lost. Perhaps the drug war is being won as far as illegal drugs go, but if one factors in alcohol abuse, smoking, and use of inhalants, then the magnitude of the drug problem in this country can then placed in its true perspective. For those of you who don't consider alcohol to be a drug then try drinking a fifth of whiskey sometime and then come back and tell me that it's not a drug. Agencies like the DEA only go after *illegal* drugs. This is one of the reasons why the drug war is a fruitless attempt at preventing substance abuse---people will merely switch to another drug if the one they were using becomes scarce or unpopular. The solution to the drug abuse problem in this country may be to legalize some---not all---drugs whose toxicity has been shown to be within reasonable limits (you won't drop dead after using it a few times) and then couple this with a massive drug education program. The reason why I think legalization is *part* of the solution is because people seem to be able to easily obtain drugs despite the government's efforts to the contrary---the money spent on drug interdiction could be spent more effectively elsewhere (e.g., drug education). Additionally, legalization would reduce crime because the profit motive would be taken out of drug trafficking which often goes along with other kinds of crime. Not to mention the fact that addicts would have less reason to prey on innocent people for their money and posessions in order to support their expensive habit; legalization would cause the street price of drugs to fall substantially so drugs would be much more affordable to addicts. IMHO, the way to reduce substance abuse is to do to drugs what has been done to smokers: make drug use socially unacceptable rather than try to employ heavy-handed law enforcement and punish people by incarcerating them. As you already know, people in the U.S. smoke a lot less than they used to. This reduction in the number of smokers has been brought about by public awareness campaigns, laws restricting where people can light up, warning labels on cigarette packages, taxation on tobacco in order to reduce consumption, and so on. I propose that similar methods be used to reduce substance abuse after legalization has been carried out. They are as follows: * Drugs being sold must come with clear, concise information which states the possible health hazzards involved with using this product and recommendations on how the drug should be used. Things like dosage levels and how long the drug should be used ought to accompany the packaging the drug is contained in. * All drugs should be taxed at a rate that generates a lot of revenue but not so high as to encourage people to acquire drugs through illegal channels. Part of the revenue collected from drug taxes should be used to fund drug education and law enforcement. * Make it a felony to sell drugs to minors (people under the age of 18). Anyone can sell drugs but they must not dodge paying the taxes on drugs or sell drugs with the warning information absent. Failure to pay the appropiate taxes on drugs or omitting warning information should also be a felony. * Establish a government agency whose job is to insure that the purity and safety of all drugs is as high as possible. This agency would try to prevent people from getting a hold of bad drugs---something that is a fairly serious problem now. I'm sure that many of the things I've discussed in this article have been hashed out before in this newsgroup. Nevertheless, I thought it was a good idea to give my two cents (actually a buck and a half...) all at once so you could get a good idea of where I currently stand on WOD. Go ahead and tear into my post; I'm sure there is something in it that you may wish to take a different view on or flame. :) :) :) BTW, I posted the articles from USA Today to not only help prove my assertions but also to provide information on LSD usage among youths--- something which I noticed some posters to this group were interested in. Scott Kennedy, Brewer and Patriot
Punchline #3: it would be a good idea just to leave them there. -Tommy Mac ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tom McWilliams 517-355-2178 wk \\ As the radius of vision increases, 18084tm@ibm.cl.msu.edu 336-9591 hm \\ the circumference of mystery grows.
The Proton has been used in 2, 3, and 4 stage versions. The two stage version was used for the first 3 launches, while the 3 and 4 stage versions are used today. The four stage version is used mostly for escape (and geosynchronous?) orbits, while the 3 stage version is used for low earth orbits. Since this is the version that launched Mir and the Salyuts (and the add-on modules for Mir), as long as Centaur is smaller than Mir (which I believe it is), it should fit under the shroud. I vaguely recall that the Russians are developing a LH2/LOX upper stage for the Proton.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ I've heard many Turks say this and it surpises me that they don't read about it.Remember the Treaty of Sevres-as a consequence of being in the Axis powers in WWI.The Turks UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW were supposed to look after their minorities ie. Greeks,Armenians,Kurds(I must say Turk-Kurd relations are improving slightly with time) and not pose a threat to Turkey's neighbours. The Turks blatantly rejected this treaty(the Germans grudgingly accepted Versailles which was a million times worse for the health and pride of the German people).The Greeks who had an army there,were there with BRITISH and FRENCH backing to enforce Sevres. In possibly the first example of appeasement the Young Turk government managed screwed the Treaty of Laussane out of the weak allies,this was after the Greek forces were were destroyed at Smyrna.When this occurred incidently, FRENCH warships were in the harbour and many Greeks trying escape swam to the FRENCH warships and climbed aboard only to get their arms cut off by the FRENCH as they clawed they're way up the sides of the ships. Libertae,egalitae,fraternatae.
Has anyone looked into the possiblity of a Proton/Centaur combo? What would be the benefits and problems with such a combo (other than the obvious instability in the XSSR now)?
Well, it wasn't that way for Enoch and Elijah, both of whom were translated directly into heaven. It's beyond my grasp why some object that Mary, who was far greater than either Enoch or Elijah, should not benefit from the same privelege they recieved. She was after all, Mother of God, full of grace, and immaculate. And in St. Germain of Constantinople and St. John of Damascus, and in St. Andrew of Crete, among others. And it should be noted that the Monophysite Chruches of Egypt and Syria also hold to this belief as part of divine revelation, even though they broke away from the unity of the Chruch in 451 AD by rejecting the Council of Chalcedon. It might be argued by some Protestants that the Catholics and Orthodox made this belief up, but the Monophysites, put a big hole in that notion, as they also hold the belief, and they split from the Chruch before the belief was first annunciated in writing (as far as is known, much has been lost from the time of the Fathers).
Hi... I'm new to this group, and maybe this has been covered already, but does anybody out there see the current emphasis on the environment being turned (unintentionally, of course) into pantheism? I've debated this quite a bit, and while I think a legitimate concern for the planet is a great thing, I can easily see it being perverted into something dangerous. As evidence, may I quote THE WALL STREET JOURNAL (of all things!), April 2 (Editorial page): "We suspect that's because one party to the (environmental) dispute thinks the Earth is sanctified. It's clear that much of the environmentalist energy is derived from what has been called the Religious Left, a SECULAR, or even PAGAN fanaticism that now WORSHIPS such GODS as nature and gender with a reverence formerly accorded real religions." (EMPHASIS MINE).
1) How was this testing done, and how many times? (Calibrated speedometer?) 2) It's not the "some cases" that worry me, it's the "other cases" :-)
Candidate Clinton promised to tax the rich, and most folks thought that was a pretty nifty idea. Then President Clinton said he wanted families who make more than $100,000 to bear 70% of the new tax burden, and many were quick to complain that their six-figure income does not make them one of the well-to-do. It's particularly ironic (to me) that it's in those traditionally liberal enclaves of the Bay Area and academia where the wealthy are struggling so to fit themselves into the mantle of "just regular working-class folk". Nobody will ever admit to being rich; everybody's middle class. So who are The Rich? Well, I'll throw out some stats from the 1990 Census and let you be the judge... Va negvpyr <mzimmersC5E1qK.Fn9@netcom.com> mzimmers@netcom.com (Michael Zimmers) jevgrf: } In article <1qcdvbINN5ti@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov> } > [...] } >that would be about $55 to 65 thousand US, and that is what tenured } >professors can expect to make. For a PhD with say 10 years experience, } >$65,000 is a lot less than what he could be making in industry. } } Oh? As a 12-year veteran of Silicon Valley, I've seen precious few } employment ads that call for PhDs. And $65K is hardly chump change; } it's well above the median *household* income for the state. Bay Area average household income is in the mid-$40,000 range. National average is $31,889. The Bay Area has nearly twice the national average of six-figure income households (9.1% vs 4.8%*). The cost-of-living here may be high, but I don't think it's twice the national average... } >In Los Angeles, modest home prices can be $500,000. A 1,500-square-foot tract house in a Bay Area working-class neighborhood goes for about $250,000. I doubt that the Los Angeles market is all that different. It would appear that this definition of "modest" is perhaps a bit immoderate... } So what? They're no cheaper for those who are gainfully employed. } } >In California, $65,000 is not upper-middle-class. } } It depends upon your definition; it's clearly above average. It is more than what two-thirds of California households make. Seems to me that belonging to the upper one-third is not an unreasonable definition of "upper-middle-class". Note that if that professor's spouse earns $35,000 they become one of Clinton's "rich" families. Here's a breakdown of national, California, and Bay Area household incomes: <$30K $30-50K $50-100K $100K+ ------------------------------------ US 49% 24% 23% 4% * the Census Bureau did some weird CA 41% 26% 26% 7% rounding here...more like 5% BA 34% 25% 31% 9% And to add a little prespective: A minimum wage earner working 40 hours/week makes $8,840/year. The poverty line for a family of four is $15,171. If they make up to twice that, the government considers them to be "working poor". Say we decide to call this the "lower-middle-class". Then how 'bout: $30-50K annual income is "middle-class". $50-100K is "upper-middle-class". $100K+ is "rich". $1,000K+ is "filthy-rich". and $10,000+ is "Bill Gates". make sense? ;^) -timr
I have the following equipment for sale: 1. Kenwood TH-28A 2mtr HT $250.00 2. RF Concepts 2mtr Amp (45in->170out) $275.00 3. Hamtronics Class C Continuous Duty 440mhz 10watt-in ~40watt-out amp $250.00 All prices include shipping/insurance. For additional information, contact me at the address below. Dave
Glad to see Griffin is spending his time on engineering rather than on ritual purification of the language. Pity he got stuck with the turkey rather than one of the sensible options.
I've been thinking of sending into Mad magazine an idea for a parody, of those books entitled "How Things Work" that engineers buy their sons, which explain how engines, elevators, flourescent lights, etc. work. The parody would be "How Things Really Work." Under "Canned Food", on the left page you'd see the description from "How Things Work": gleaming stainless steel equipment pasteurizing the food to precisely the right temperature, then sealing the can in an oxygen-free environment, etc. On the right page you'd see "How Things Really Work": brain-dead workers sending disgusting food to the gleaming equipment -- rotting vegetables, parts of animals people don't eat, barrels of sugar and chemicals. Under "Elevators" you'd see (on the left) computer geniuses working out algorithms so that X number of people waiting for Y elevators will get to Z floors in the shortest time. On the right, you'd see giggling elevator controllers behind a one-way mirror in the lobby choosing which people appear to be in the biggest hurry and making them wait longest.
Detectors are legal in Alberta, the old law was overturned a long time ago. --
I'm thinking about getting a Toshiba 3401 CD-ROM and hooking it up through the SCSI port on a Media Vision Pro Audio Spectrum sound board. Does anybody have this configuration out there? If so, does it work? For anybody in general who has the Toshiba 3401 CD-ROM drive, have you had any hadware problems? Door not opening, scratched disks, door not closing (getting stuck or not closing all the way), CD holder jamming and any other CD related problems. Thanks in Advance
To: Dodge Dart collectors I have a 1964 Dodge (25th anniversary) Dart 273ci V8 wagon to turn into cash. My asking price is $300.00 although we can negotiate. The car currently resides in Union City, California. Thats on the east side of the San Francisco Bay Area in the state of California of the United states of America on the continent of North America of the planet Earth, third planetary body out from Sol, a mid range yellowish star in the Western Spiral Arm of the Milkyway Galaxy. toowhit: north of Silicon Valley if interested pleas contact Scott by the following means: internet sbrogii@tymnet.com home answering machine 510.489.6165 business voice mail 408.922.6547 loud yell & wave money out the window ^(not recommended in downtown urban environment)
Hi, Since the original buyer found out he couldn't use this modem for his Mac (I beleive I mentioned that it's an internal in my former post), the modem is re-available now. This modem is SupraFaxModem V.32bis. If interested, please e-mail. Thanks!
C >Hi: C >I have a 486DX2-66MHz computer to use with an A/D board C >for data acquisition on an AT bus...I'm having problems. C >The AT bus runs at 12.5 MHz - correct? So there should C >be no bus speed conflict. But I read somewhere that the C >new 486DX2-66 MHz CPU runs on a 33 MHz bus - is that for C >the local bus or the AT bus also - if so then I have a problem. C >^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ C >When I run on non-turbo-mode the speed goes to 8 MHz and the C >A/D doesn't work. Please mail your views! Thanks. C >Vincent C >cyl5@musica.mcgill.ca C > The STANDARD AT bus (ISA) runs at 8MHz, not 12.5 MHz, but some non-stnadard ISA buses do have higher clock rates, but be careful, since some boards don't work with faster than standard rates. For instance, my 486 has adjustable AT bus speeds, and my PAS16 audio card chokes when I do AD data acquisition with a bus speed faster than 10MHz. The fact that non-turbo-mode speed A/D doesn't work is weird. You may have a motherboard with a hardware 'bug'. 33 MHz bus on the 486DX2 66 does refer to the local bus. FYI: the AT bus operates asynchronously, and is linked to the local bus via a 'bus interface', which is one function that your 'chipset'. -rdd --- . WinQwk 2.0b#0 . Unregistered Evaluation Copy * KMail 2.95d W-NET HQ, hal9k.ann-arbor.mi.us, +1 313 663 4173 or 3959
: : Oh yeah, I just read in another newsgroup that the T560i uses a : high quality Trinitron tube than is in most monitors.(the Sony : 1604S for example) and this is where the extra cost comes from. It : is also where the high bandwidth comes from, and the fantastic : image, and the large image size, etc, etc... : : It's also where the two annoying lines across the screen (one a third : down, the other two thirds down) come from. : The 2 lines are not a result of the high end trinitron tube, these 2 wires will be found on all 17" trinitron tubes (e.g., Mitsubishi 17", Sony 1604, etc). On 14" Sony tubes, you'll find one wire. Their level of annoyance is purely subjective. I'm so happy with the sharpness of the T560i that I don't even notice the lines. The T560i uses a Trinitron SA tube which, when viewed as a complete tube, has a larger diameter than the standard Trinitron tube. This results in a flatter screen than other 17" monitors using the standard trinitron (which has a vertically flat but not horizontally flat surface), and apparently the ability to provide a tighter beam focus.
The term "stopper" is generally used to refer to a pitcher, one who can be counted on to pitch a strong game to keep his team from going on a losing streak. The Braves have plenty of pitchers to fit this description, although right now I'd expect Smoltz or Glavine to take the mantle. What the Braves lack, however, is an offensive stopper, somebody they can look to to bring them out of their hitting slump. There's just no one there. The Braves got rid of their best pure hitter, Lonnie Smith, and only Terry Pendleton on the current roster has ever shown more than a cursory ability to hit. Oh, and another thing that worries me. Ron Gant seems to have slowed down a step. That's scary. A slow Ron Gant doesn't have much going for him.
I would doubt any civil rights case would be in order for the point that you mentioned. Even if it were possible, I think it is a bad idea since it smacks real strongly of double jeopardy. A civil case for damages is fine since that is a trial that would proceed regardless of the first. I think a bad precedent has already been set in the King trial in L.A. and something like this would make it worse. Regardless of how bad anybody feels about this decision, it must stand that charges of assault were not not proven against the three marines and that's how it should stand. Frank (who is still mad, but now somewhat sane) -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Frank R. Chloupek CHLOUPEK@ohstpy.mps.ohio-state.edu Department of Physics -- *The* Ohio State University (Not just any Ohio State University)
I am auctioning off the following comics. These minimum bids are set below what I would normally sell them for. Make an offer, and I will accept the highest bid after the auction has been completed. TITLE Minimum/Current -------------------------------------------------------------- Alpha Flight 51 (Jim Lee's first work at Marvel) $ 5.00 Aliens 1 (1st app Aliens in comics, 1st prnt, May 1988) $20.00 Amazing Spider-Man 136 (Intro new Green Goblin) $20.00 Amazing Spider-Man 238 (1st appearance Hobgoblin) $50.00 Archer and Armstrong 1 (Frank Miller/Smith/Layton) $ 7.50 Avengers 263 (1st appearance X-factor) $ 3.50 Bloodshot 1 (Chromium cover, BWSmith Cover/Poster) $ 5.00 Daredevil 158 (Frank Miller art begins) $35.00 Dark Horse Presents 1 (1st app Concrete, 1st printing) $ 7.50 H.A.R.D. Corps 1 $ 5.00 Incredible Hulk 324 (1st app Grey Hulk since #1, 1962) $ 7.50 Incredible Hulk 330 (1st McFarlane issue) $15.00 Incredible Hulk 331 (Grey Hulk series begins) $11.20 Incredible Hulk 367 (1st Dale Keown art in Hulk) $15.00 Incredible Hulk 377 (1st all new hulk, 1st prnt, Keown) $15.00 Marvel Comics Presents 1 (Wolverine, Silver Surfer) $ 7.50 Maxx Limited Ashcan (4000 copies exist, blue cover) $30.00 New Mutants 86 (McFarlane cover, 1st app Cable - cameo) $10.00 New Mutants 100 (1st app X-Force) $ 5.00 New Mutants Annual 5 (1st Liefeld art on New Mutants) $10.00 Omega Men 3 (1st appearance Lobo) $ 7.50 Omega Men 10 (1st full Lobo story) $ 7.50 Power Man & Iron Fist 78 (3rd appearance Sabretooth) $25.00 84 (4th appearance Sabretooth) $20.00 Simpsons Comics and Stories 1 (Polybagged special ed.) $ 7.50 Spectacular Spider-Man 147 (1st app New Hobgoblin) $12.50 Star Trek the Next Generation 1 (Feb 1988, DC mini) $ 7.50 Star Trek the Next Generation 1 (Oct 1989, DC comics) $ 7.50 Web of Spider-Man 29 (Hobgoblin, Wolverine appear) $10.00 Web of Spider-Man 30 (Origin Rose, Hobgoblin appears) $ 7.50 Wolverine 10 (Before claws, 1st battle with Sabretooth) $15.00 Wolverine 41 (Sabretooth claims to be Wolverine's dad) $ 5.00 Wolverine 42 (Sabretooth proven not to be his dad) $ 3.50 Wolverine 43 (Sabretooth/Wolverine saga concludes) $ 3.00 Wolverine 1 (1982 mini-series, Miller art) $20.00 Wonder Woman 267 (Return of Animal Man) $12.50 X-Force 1 (Signed by Liefeld, Bagged, X-Force card) $20.00 X-Force 1 (Signed by Liefeld, Bagged, Shatterstar card) $10.00 X-Force 1 (Signed by Liefeld, Bagged, Deadpool card) $10.00 X-Force 1 (Signed by Liefeld, Bagged, Sunspot/Gideon) $10.00 All comics are in near mint to mint condition, are bagged in shiny polypropylene bags, and backed with white acid free boards. Shipping is $1.50 for one book, $3.00 for more than one book, or free if you order a large enough amount of stuff. I am willing to haggle. I have thousands and thousands of other comics, so please let me know what you've been looking for, and maybe I can help. Some titles I have posted here don't list every issue I have of that title, I tried to save space.
Tom Prince is a 28 year old no-hit catcher. Think of him as a young Dann Bilardello. I can't begin to fathom why the Pirates have been so afraid of losing this guy, who's been in AAA most of the last 5 seasons. The Pirates released Kirk Gibson last year because Prince was out of options, then eventually sent Prince down anyway, and he cleared waivers without a peep. He's another year older, and still can't hit; why do they think he wouldn't clear waivers now? Why would they care?
Is it just me, or does Bichette look totally lost in the outfield? He misplayed Martinez fly-out into a double against the Expos, misplayed Alou's single into a triple (Alou tagged out at 3rd after over-sliding the bag) and now he misplays another out into a 3 run triple...add in his wonderful batting average and we have one heck of a player!
For Sale: 2 Amigas! Commodore Amiga 1000 Best offer 512k Ram 1 Internal Floppy drive Detachable Keyboard 2 Button Mouse Commodore Amiga 500 Best offer 1024k Ram 1 Internal Floppy drive 2 Button Mouse 1 RGB Monitor Best offer 1 External Floppy drive Best offer
You're being too generous to the communists, I think. In practice, communism has "solved" the problem by killing off anybody who is _too_ productive, and who therefore raises embarrassing questions about why the rest of the group is a bunch of sluggards. The mass butchery of "kulaks" in the USSR is a good instance of this. A poor second best is to have a neighboring capitalist country to which people of politically incorrect skill and ambition flee. I often wonder just what Castro would have done if the Cubans presently in Miami would have been forced to remain in Cuba. Would they have revolted and killed him off, or been killed? Best of all is to build a wall locking the citizens of your country in, load it up so heavily with attack dogs, barbed wire, and land mines that most people fleeing over it die, and then give everyone the choice of obedience, prison, or flight. This would be a bad science-fiction novel, if the East Germans hadn't actually done it. The last person to die crossing the wall, as I recall, was an unarmed woman who was shot in the back. Erich Honecker was going to go on trial for that, but he fled to socialists in Chile. It's good to be kind to one's intellectual opponents, but sometimes it's a sheer waste of time.
You asked a question, and now you don't want people to answer? I believe a legitimate question was asked. Why shouldn't cost and safety be used (at least in part) to determine legality? I'd like to see you *prove* that drug legalization is an idiotic idea. Seems to me the evidence from Great Britain is pretty convincing that drug legalization is a good idea. Even such a noted conservative as William F. Buckley supports it. Your examples (except for prostitution) fail miserably to meet both criteria (safer AND cheaper). Obviously, killing people is not "safe". As for prostitution, why shouldn't it be legal? -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ...Dale Cook "Any town having more churches than bars has a serious social problem." ---Edward Abbey The opinions are mine only (i.e., they are NOT my employer's)
He: Fifty dollars if I can't answer your question. She: What is the Big Bang theory. He: The Big Bang theory is a recipe for cookies. She: Fifty dollars, please. He: Hey, I didn't say the answers would make sense.
actually, disabled persons have been known to drive in SCCA races. i'd be careful about making sweeping generalizations here. i'd prefer a manual transmission, but the early SHO had an awful transmission that felt like it came out of a truck or something. it was almost enough to make me want an automatic.
wasn't He is in Japan playing baseball.
When I'm riding my 900RR, my goodies are already up against the tank, because the design of the Corbin seat tends to move you forward. Wouldn't the major danger to one's cajones be due to accelerating into and then being stopped by the tank? If you're already there, there wouldn't be an impact problem, would there? - Michael -
A while back I asked for help in defending a traffic ticket I received. In short: The ticket was for not stopping at a stop sign. Given the conditions I could not stop in time and decided instead of sliding right through the intersection, I would complete my right-turn and avoid a possible accident. A police cruiser happened to be approaching the intersection from my left and gave me the ticket. The officer said "The only reason that you even slowed down in the first place was that you saw me approaching, otherwise you would have bombed right through" I would like to thank all those who responded favorably to my request for help. To all of those who told me to bite the bullet and pay the fine: PHGHGHGHGH.. The judge sided with me and decided that in this case "Not stopping" was the safest thing to do and found me NOT GUILTY. The officer's statement and my account of the conditions at the time (very slippery, backed by newpaper weather conditions) were the factors what made the judge decide on his verdict. Moral: If you have never been to court before and you think you have a case, go for it. It is a very interesting process, and it is there for your benefit. Exercise your rights. Trev
I would like advice on how to configure my 486 to accept: - Com1 + Com2 (currently on IRQ 4 and 3) - LPT1 (IRQ7) - Bus Mouse (IRQ5) - Sound Card (no idea what to do - can be set to any) - using IRQ2 for Bus MOuse gobbled up too many cycles, and caused loss of communications with floppy disks, and a few other problems. I could, I suppose, switch the 2 com devices externally, and disable the second port on the Super IO card, but I really want to have them both available. COuld the sound card use IRQ2 without horsing up the works? All replies apppreciated - and I only just subscribed to this newsgroup - I assume there is an FAQ somewhere (rather, I'm sure someone will tell me about it....)
Well,I tried not to get involved in this never ending talk,but,man,I REALLY got hot about this bullshit. Making stupid and idiot jokes about soliders will not bring anything (not mentioning peace or agreement). I also know several tens of jokes about arabs (palestinians) but I DO NOT post them to Usenet (Anyway,not to THIS newsgroup), since I don't think I will achieve any target but making other parts furious,and this is NOT my target. If this is your target...well...that tells a lot about you. Did you really think he is talking about something realistic? Yeah,well,sometimes,when cowards put their children and wives in the front line, so their enemy cannot do anything,well,maybe in those cases,you have no better thing to do (to save your life) than shooting. And if parents want their children alive,I think it would be better that before they get out to throw stones/molotov botlles,or when they come to kill soliders,to keep their children in the houses. ^^^^^^^^^^^^----\/ Look in the dictionary at the word "terrorism"! It esp for political purposes. It sounds more like your guys... Yeah? Well,I guess you were in there,and you know it all... ^^^^^^^^^^---\/ Where from do you know that it was "on purpose"? Personally,I didn't hear about this case,although I don't deny it.But how can ANYBODY,besides the person itself,can say it was "on purpose"? Yeah,sure.The truck driver looked in the car with his Zionist Equipment of Detecting Palestinian Children,and then he thought to himself:Hey there is a 5 year and 2 weeks girls in the car.Why won't I make an accident and kill the "enemy"? Maximum I will die too in the crash...But what do I care?... Well,It was about 3 years ago ,in the Intifada (The fact that you can't remember the time prooves how much do you care about it). I DO NOT think that what the soliders did was correct. But I will not agree that they "were breaking their arms".I saw that film,and,unlike in the USA,it was broadcasted entirely not long ago (in a talk show) and at the end the "arm-broken" guys got up and walked and used their arms very good. They guy who did it was interviewed and he said he did it because the terrorist or whatever he was refused to take his orders,and spitted in his face. What ammount of truth exist in this statement I cannot tell you,because I wasn't there. But the guy who did it was in prison,if it makes you any good. No,it didn't. The Israeli army is still the most important army in the midlle east.It is still the only human army(as much as an ARMY can be human).To any American who will claim the opposite,I can only remember the CNN broadcasting of the American Solider who beat a Somalian boy. It was very cruel to see.But I won't say because of this that the American army is cruel. Some kind of proof! "Obvious"? Where from? If you say it is behind the scenes, how do you know about it? I just wanted to show how much garbadge one can say,without knowing ANYTHING about what he says,and living a life far away from the place he talks about.
----- News saved at 23 Apr 93 22:22:40 GMT Well, I'm working on it, but getting a little impatient. So far, I've made it through Egyptian, Chinese, and Greek cultures, and up through the Rennaisance. But so far, these insights just don't seem to be gelling. Perhaps it's in an appendix somewhere.
Steve> Folks, Steve> I'm looking for a Public Domain X-Y plotting package for X. Steve> I need basic capabilities (axes, labels, log and linear, &c). Steve> It's hard to imagine that someone has not put such a thing Steve> together, so I'm hoping to avoid reinventing the wheel. Steve> Thanks for any leads! Steve> Steve Frysinger Your might take a look a PLPLOT. Version 4.99c (actually beta v5.0) can be found anonymous ftp from hagar.ph.utexas.edu, in the pub/plplot directory. --Mark ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ From the README file of version 4.99c: This is the PLPLOT distribution. PLPLOT is a scientific plotting package for many systems, small (micro) and large (super) alike. Despite its small size and quickness, it has enough power to satisfy most users, including: standard x-y plots, semilog plots, log-log plots, contour plots, 3D plots, mesh plots, bar charts and pie charts. Multiple graphs (of the same or different sizes) may be placed on a single page with multiple lines in each graph. Different line styles, widths and colors are supported. A virtually infinite number of distinct area fill patterns may be used. There are almost 1000 characters in the extended character set. This includes four different fonts, the Greek alphabet and a host of mathematical, musical, and other symbols. The fonts can be scaled to any size for various effects. Many different output device drivers are available (system dependent), including a portable metafile format and renderer. The PLPLOT package is freely distributable, but NOT in the public domain. The PLPLOT source code, except header files and those files explicitly granting permission, may not be used in a commercial software package without consent of the authors. You are allowed and encouraged to include the PLPLOT object library and header files in a commercial package provided that: (1) it is explicitly and prominently stated that the PLPLOT library is freely available, and (2) the full copyrights on the PLPLOT package be displayed somewhere in the documentation for the package. We welcome suggestions on how to improve this code, especially in the form of user-contributed enhancements or bug fixes. If PLPLOT is used in any published papers, please include an acknowledgment or citation of our work, which will help us to continue improving PLPLOT. Also, please remember that as PLPLOT is not a commercial product, we cannot be expected to offer the kind of support that a commercial product may. There is great interest in extending PLPLOT and fixing bugs, but the principal authors can only afford to work on it part time. Improvements will necessarily focus on those which help us get our work done. PLPLOT is written in C, enabling it to run on many platforms practically without modification. Fortran programs may use it transparently; stub routines are provided to handle the C<->Fortran interface without any modification of the user program. C programs are required to include the header file "plplot.h"; see the documentation for more details. The main documentation for PLPLOT is in the doc/ directory in the form of several TeX files; please consult this for additional information ('latex plotdoc'). Unfortunately documentation tends to lag actual improvements to the code, so don't be surprised if some known features are not explained there. Consult 'Changes.log' to see a list of recent changes. At present, PLPLOT is known to work on the following systems: Unix: SunOS A/IX HP-UX Unicos DG/UX Ultrix SysV Linux Amiga/Exec MS-DOS OS/2 NeXT For more information on how to get or use PLPLOT on your system, see: - appendices to the PLPLOT manual - system-specific documentation in the appropriate sys/<system> directory. To become a subscriber to the PLPLOT mailing list, send a request to plplot-request@dino.ph.utexas.edu. CREDITS ------- PLPLOT is the result of the effort of many people, so it is impractical to list all the contributors. Those currently supporting and otherwise responsible for the package in its present form include: Maurice LeBrun Please send all comments, flames, patches, etc, to me. I am responsible for all the PLPLOT kernel development as well as most of the work on the metafile, xwindow, xterm, postscript, tektronix, and Amiga drivers. EMAIL mjl@fusion.ph.utexas.edu USMAIL Dr. Maurice LeBrun Institute for Fusion Studies University of Texas Austin, TX 78712 Geoff Furnish Please send questions regarding the MS-DOS and OS/2 drivers to Geoff. EMAIL furnish@fusion.ph.utexas.edu USMAIL Geoff Furnish Institute for Fusion Studies University of Texas Austin, TX 78712 Tony Richardson Creator of PLPLOT 2.6b, 3.0 Please send questions regarding installation of PLPLOT on the NeXT to Tony. EMAIL amr@egr.duke.edu
Fellow Info-junkies, I have an extra CCI #27 (Real Time Programming/Embedded Sensors & Storage) and an extra CCI #32 (Voice control of telescope, among other articles). No labels. No torn, cut-up, or missing pages. Would like to trade for CCI # 26, or CCI # 23, or CCI # 19 in same condition (Labels OK). I mail mine you mail yours mutual trust kinda thang OK? You don't actually throw them away, do you?
You wanna do masking. Build a bitmap (pixmap of depth one) where all pixels you name "opaque" are 1 (that get copied) and the others are 0. Use this bitmap as the clip_mask in the gc used for XCopyArea(), and remember to adjust the clip_origin coordinates to the XCopyArea() blit origin. The Mouse pointer (besides from that it is driven using RAMDAC analog mapping on most hardwares) uses a mask, too. But be warned: blitting through a mask and especially moving around this mask is annoying slow on most xservers... it flickers even at 40 MIPS...
Does anybody out there have or used to have an HD controller from Perstor System Inc. (which is out of business I believe)? My friend received an old PC which happens to have such a controller and I am having a hard time trying to add another HD to the card. I believe the controller is supposed to control MFM drives as RLL drives?? Here the model info on the card, but any other similar model will probably do. Perstor System Inc. Model: PS 180-16FN Rev: 2.2 ECN 9-21 I would appreciate your reply directly to my e-mail address below. Thanks, Ray (rngai@oracle.com)
I've been following discussions about the Delta Clipper program, and I have one small question. As I understand it, the DC-X derived orbital vehicle (DC-Y & 1) is to reenter the atmosphere sort of sideways, not completely nose-first. So why is the DC-Y look symmetric in every drawing I've seen? I would think that an asymmetric design, sort of like wingless Orbiter, may work better, since less shielding is required on the top side. Can anybody explain? - Ken Kobayashi kkobayas@husc.harvard.edu --
Well, after suffering from an intense fit of Minnesota-induced cabin fever, I've decided to road trip to Milwaukee and take in a couple of games this weekend. A couple games at County stadium will be great to relieve tension, but I thought "Why not go to Wrigley for a game too?" I see the Cubs are playing the Phillies on Sat (2:05 start, I believe that's Eastern time listed). I figured it would be fun to bounce down to Wrigley for the day game and live it up a little. I'm wondering if anyone (esp. Cubbie fans) have some advice on: 1) If I'm taking 41 (Skokie Hwy) south until it runs into 94, what's the best way to get to Wrigley? I'm planning on getting there an hour or two early and paying through the nose for parking to keep things easy. 2) Is it probable that I'll be able to walk up and get bleacher seats (2 or 3) on game day? I figure since it's early in the year, Ryno's out and the weather isn't great I should be able to get tickets. If not, what's the best way to get advance tickets; can I call the Cubs' ticket office directly and pick up tickets at the will call window? 3) Any advice on where to eat before or after the game? 4) Do they allow inflatable I-luv-ewe dolls (present from Lundy) into the bleachers? :-)
[stuff deleted...] That's like saying that, since mathematics includes no instructions on how to act, it is evil. Atheism is not a moral system, so why should it speak of instructions on how to act? *Atheism is simply lack of belief in God*. Plenty of theists I think the argument that a particular theist system causes genocide can be made more convincingly than an argument that atheism causes genocide. This is because theist systems contain instructions on how to act, and one or more of these can be shown to cause genocide. However, since the atheist set of instructions is the null set, how can you show that atheism causes genocide? -- David Choweller (davec@silicon.csci.csusb.edu) There are scores of thousands of human insects who are ready at a moment's notice to reveal the Will of God on every possible subject. --George Bernard Shaw.
Sorry, by "they" I meant autobahns, not US freeways. Well, I've driven in every state but Alaska, and drive about 60k per year. I take long cross country trips any chance I get - its fun for me and I can get reimbursment. My job allows me to drive rather than fly. Not to labor the point, but I've driven just about every freewayin the US, Germany, UK and France plus some in Mexico, which was surpisingly good. Yes, but as a %age of the total freeway in the US? All you have to do in this case is mark the hazard, advising people to slow to 85 or so. Texas freeways are varied, sometimes a good surface. Mostly flat. But, I5 in CA is comparable and hilly. Given the absence of other traffic and car built for 130 (e.g. 535) most US freeways are just fine. The problem is other road users and cops.
You have done no such thing. An Islamic bank is a bank which operates according to the rules of Islam in regard to banking. This is done explicitly by the bank. This was not the case with BCCI. This is crap. BCCI was motivated by the same motives as other international banks, with perhaps an emphasis on dealing with outlaws and the intelligence services of various governments. Back to childish propaganda again. You really ought to get a life rather than wasting bandwith on such empty typing. There are thousands of Islamic banks operating throughout the world which no-one ever hears about. If you want to talk about corrupted banks we can talk about all the people who've been robbed by American banks.
RB> RB> No, that's praying on the young. Preying on the young comes RB> later, when the bright eyed little altar boy finds out what the RB> priest really wears under that chasible. The same thing Scotsmen where under there kilt. I'll never forget the day when I was about tweleve and accidently walked in on a roomfull of priests sitting around in their underware drinking beer and watching football. Kind of changed my opinion a bit. They didn't seem so menacing after that.
A friend of mine called me on the phone and told me he was wathcing CNN and saw a report that the ruling prohibiting AMD from selling their i486 clones has been thrown out, making it legal for AMD to ship in the US. Can anyone out there verify this?
Sigh. I try to make a little joke, I try to inject some humour here and what happens? In the immortal words of Foghorn Leghorn: "I say, that was a _joke_, son." I thought that the bit about McElwaine, not to mention the two smileys, would indicate to even the most humour impaired that I was JOKING. Sigh. (And will everyone who pat's suggestion (thanks bunches, pat) *please* stop sending me email.) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The regular season of the 1992-93 Davis Tabletop Baseball League has just come to an end. To help us with next year's league, I would appreciate it if you would take a couple of minutes and vote for our league MVP and CY winners. These awards, and players' standings in them, will inflate their salaries for next year's league. Please vote for 5 in each category, in order. For example... 1. Barry Bonds 2. Frank Thomas 3. Biff Pocoroba 4. Shooty Babitt 5. "Lips" Lundy. Please do NOT vote for pitchers in MVP voting for this league. Each team in the league gets one candidate for MVP, and one for CY. Defensive position is listed where applicable, along with an abbreviation of their performance there (E=Excellent, V=Very Good, A=Average, P=Poor, B=Very Poor) Thanks... please reply by April 10. For the record - the season was 144 games long. Thanks for your help. MVP Candidates Name G AB H 2B 3B HR R RBI BB K SB CS IBB BA/OBP/SLG DEF Griffey 124 338 99 27 0 16 44 64 39 50 0 0 16 293/362/515 8-P EMartinez 139 562 176 55 3 14 85 87 44 77 14 5 6 313/359/496 5-A Sandberg 137 559 163 35 6 20 100 102 64 67 4 1 2 292/360/483 4-V Ventura 144 562 161 32 0 9 83 59 80 61 0 1 3 286/374/391 5-E McGriff 148 533 150 25 1 33 89 98 102 132 0 3 20 281/398/518 3-P McGwire 138 487 134 31 1 34 108 104 128 100 0 3 38 275/425/552 3-E RAlomar 127 515 159 23 8 5 85 34 70 67 54 11 1 309/389/414 4-P Dykstra 144 582 157 27 1 3 94 60 65 67 89 20 3 270/339/335 8-A Butler 137 534 158 13 13 1 82 50 83 69 13 19 0 296/386/375 8-B Deer 119 425 103 26 1 33 66 75 44 141 1 3 2 242/311/541 9-V Bonds 145 465 143 39 4 33 128 101 187 62 23 5 68 308/502/622 7-E Hrbek 129 423 112 21 0 12 62 52 80 77 1 0 2 265/380/400 3-P JGonzalez 135 543 121 17 1 38 59 85 28 146 0 0 2 223/259/468 8-B Some players missed time due to injuries, others were sat down at the end to avoid the possibility of injury. There are better players than those on this list, but each team gets one and only one candidate. Some players played more than 144 games due to being traded to teams with more games left in the same time span. Now, on to the pitchers... Name ERA G W L S IP H BB K HR GS CG ShO WP DMartinez 3.01 30 15 8 0 209.1 173 76 124 12 30 2 0 2 Dibble 0.80 37 0 2 25 33.2 21 8 46 1 0 0 0 0 Rijo 3.40 26 13 7 0 177.1 175 56 133 12 26 5 1 5 Mussina 2.92 29 15 7 0 206.2 167 46 119 15 29 3 1 2 Benes 3.24 28 14 9 0 194.1 172 53 127 13 28 4 1 1 KHill 2.93 27 16 7 0 196.2 144 64 166 20 26 8 3 1 Smoltz 3.62 28 11 11 0 186.1 177 66 158 9 28 6 1 7 Cone 3.46 28 14 7 0 197.2 152 103 193 10 28 7 1 5 Drabek 2.79 29 13 10 0 206.2 166 55 131 16 29 4 0 2 Tewksbury 3.28 25 12 8 0 172.2 168 36 64 8 25 4 2 1 Clemens 2.94 31 16 11 0 223.1 198 71 178 13 31 17! 2 1 Tomlin 2.48 28 12 5 0 196.0 172 42 97 8 27 1 0 2 Farr 0.81 38 4 1 17 55.1 28 25 38 1 0 0 0 0 There you have it. Curt Schilling threw a perfect game during the year, and Ken Hill threw a no-hitter. Rob Dibble had pitched 32 scoreless innings to start the year, only to choke in the last two games to cost the Perot's Giant Sucking Sounds a playoff spot. If you want stats of more players, they are available by request. Please take the time to reply if you can. Thanks. -- * Gary Huckabay * Kevin Kerr: The Al Feldstein of the mid-90's! * * "A living argument for * If there's anything we love more than a huge * * existence of parallel * .sig, it's someone quoting 100 lines to add * * universes." * 3 or 4 new ones. And consecutive posts, too. *
Minolta FD 50 mm lens for sale. Good condition. Asking $30.
Recently, my video monitor went dead, no picture, some low distorted sound. I didn't hear the tell-tale cracking that indicated HV at work, nor are the filaments at the far end of the tube glowing orange, just nothing. On examining the power board, I noticed the largest capacitor with a very bad bulge at the top. Naturally, I want to replace it, but I can't find any sources. The electrolytic capacitor is 330 mF at 250WV. It has radial leads, and is roughly 1 1/2 inches long, 1 1/8" wide. The dimensions are important since the whole board fits in a metal cage, leaving little room. Living in the Los Angeles area, I've been to numerous stores (Dow Radio, All Electronics, ITC Elect, Sandy's, Yale Elect) with empty hands. Can anyone suggest sources for high-voltage capacitors? Mail order is fine, although I'd rather check out a store to compare the can. I'm going to try a video electronics store, hopefully they'll have HV caps. (By the way, the monitor is a ATARI SC1224, Goldstar circuitry, Masushita tube. Anyone else had problems?) Thanks in advance, Rich K.
Well, despite what my mother told me about accepting dares, here goes. You have to be very careful about what you mean by "question authority". Taken literally, it is nonsense. That which is authoratative is authoratative, and to say "I question to word of this authority" is ridiculous. If it is open to question, it isn't an authority. On the other hand, it is perfectly reasonable to question whether something is an authority. The catch phrase here should be "authenticate authority." Once you have authenticated your authority, you must believe what it says, or you are not treating it as an authority. The difficulty is that authenticating an authority is not easy. You can perhaps discredit a claim to authority by showing logical inconsistency in what it teaches, or by showing that it does not obey its own rules of discourse. But the fact that I cannot discredit something does not, in inself, accredit it. (Nor does the fact that I can convince myself and other that I have discredited something necessarilly mean that it is false.) I cannot accredit an authority by independantly verifying its teachings, because if I can independantly verify its teachings, I don't need an authority. I need an authority only when there is information I need which I cannot get for myself. Thus, if I am to authenticate an authority, I must do it by some means other than by examining its teachings. In practical matters we accept all kinds of authorities because we don't have time to rediscover fundamental knowledge for ourselves. Every scientist woring today assumes, on the authority of the scintific community, all sorts of knowledge which is necessary to his work but which he has not time to verify for himself. In spiritual matters, we accept authority because we have no direct source ofinformation. We select our authorities based on various criteria. (I am a Catholic, in part, because the historical claims of the RC church seem the strongest.) Without authorities there would be no subject matter for belief, unless we simply made something up for ourselves (as many do). The atheist position seems to be that there are no authorities. This is a reasonable assertion in itself, but it leads to a practical difficulty. If you reject all authority out of hand, you reject all possibility of every receiving information. Thus the atheist position can never possibly change. It is non-falsifiable and therefore unscintific. To demand scintific or rational proof of God's existence, is to deny God's existence, since neither science, nor reason, can, in their very nature, prove anything.
] Hi there, ] ] ] : I have 1s/1p/1g I/O card in my 386/40 PC. ] : When I plug in wang modem at com4,it works. If I change ] : it to com1- it doesn't. ] : Program "chkport" gives diagnostics like "possible com /irq ] : conflict at com1" (with mouse driver in memory). ] ] Since your IO-card only has one serial port - this should default to COM1 ? ] Under MS-DOS, you can't share IRQ's - so you'll have to set either your modem ] or your mouse to COM2 ... using different adresses and IRQ's. ] When you set two 'devices' onto the same IRQ - like COM1 and COM3 (or 2 and 4) ] - the 'latter' one will always win, i.e. if you have your mouse on COM1 and ] start using your modem on COM3, your modem should work - but your mouse will ] stop doing so, until reboot. ] ] It should be no problem, setting your modem to COM2 ? (you didn't write ] anything about other peripherals ...) ] ] I hope, it helped a bit .... By(t)e, Oli. ] ] Hi, I'm kind of new at the pc stuff. My machine has 4 serial ports. Com 1 and3 and 2 &4 share same IRQs. You mean I can't plug a mouse into Com1 and a modem into com3 and expect both to work? If Answer is NO, should I change IRQ's for com ports to be different? And, does it really matter which IRQ I set the ports too? Phil -------------------------------------------------------------------- Phil Hunt "Wherever you go, there you are!" Howtek, Inc.
The other Jewish HOF'er is Rod Carew (who converted). Lowenstein is Jewish, as well as Montana's only representative to the major leagues. Undeserving Cy Young award winner Steve Stone is Jewish. Between Stone, Koufax, Ken Holtzman (? might have the wrong pitcher, I'm thinking of the one who threw a no-hitter in both the AL and NL), and Big Ed Reulbach, that's quite a starting rotation. Moe Berg can catch. Harry Steinfeldt, the 3b in the Tinkers-Evers-Chance infield. Is Stanky Jewish? Or is that just a "Dave Cohen" kinda misinterpretation? Whatever, doesn't look like he stuck around the majors too long.
This is a despicable LIE! It was sunny on 3rd July 1958 from 11.23am to 11 37am. I made a note of it. Diaries are never wrong. Do you, by any chance ride a Harley? (just a feeling...) How is your neck? Calamine lotion is good, I'm told. I am getting bored with winding up Americans. Its like bombing fish in a barrel. Haaaaaaaaaaave a Niiiiiiiiiiiiiiice Daaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay
For Sale 1988 Honda CBR600 (Hurricane). I bought the bike at the end of last summer and although I love it, the bills are forcing me to part with it. The bike has a little more than 6000 miles on it and runs very strong. It is in nead of a tune-up and possibly break pads but the rubber is good. I am also tossing in a TankBag and a KIWI Helmet. Asking $3000.00 or best offer. Add hits newspaper 04-20-93 and Micronews 04-23-93. Interested parties can call 206-635-2006 during the day and 889-1510 in the evenings no later than 11:00PM.
/ hpcc01:rec.motorcycles / Stafford@Vax2.Winona.MSUS.Edu (John Stafford) / 11:06 am Apr 1, 1993 / It depreciates much faster, too. ==================================================== John Stafford Minnesota State University @ Winona All standard disclaimers apply. ---------- The '84 GL1200A hit the traps at 13.34 according to Cycle magazine. Yeah, they depreciate faster than Harleys for the first couple of years then they bottom out. Got my '86 GL1200I w/ 2275 miles on the odometer for just under $5K in May of 1990 and would ask for $4500 now with almost 16K miles onnit....that's about 50% of what a new GL1500I would cost. Think the '86 GL1200I originally sold for $6500 brand new, not sure. If that's the case then it depreciated 30.77% over 7 years or a mere $2000. Big Fat Hairy Deal! Based on what I know, Harleys tend to depreciate your monies far more than the initial depreciation of the bike itself when it comes to parts and service. All this about Harleys holding their value better doesn't always wash away the knocks on them...such as being much slower. ;-) According to Peter Egan in the just released Cycle World his FLHS is a real dog when he pillions his 120lb wife. All that money for a dog that doesn't defecate much. =:-] -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Graeme Harrison, Hewlett-Packard Co., Communications Components Division, 350 W Trimble Rd, San Jose, CA 95131 (gharriso@hpcc01.corp.hp.com) DoD#649
Posting this for a friend Sunnyvale, California 1982 Porsche 928 GTS Package leather interior european handling package sunroof cruise control 88,000k miles new paint Immaculate in every way ********** DELIVERY POSSIBLE TO DESTINATION WITH DEPOSIT ******** $10,000 firm Low book is 11,500 High book is 16,000 Phone (408) 296-4444 Frank Rosqui As new this vehicle was $74,000
THE HAMAS WAY of DEATH (Following is a transcript of a recruitment and training videotape made last summer by the Qassam Battalions, the military arm of Hamas, an Islamic Palestinian group. Hamas figures significantly in the Middle East equation. In December, Israel deported more than 400 Palestinians to Lebanon in response to Hamas's kidnapping and execution of an Israeli soldier. A longer version appears in the May issue of Harper's Magazine, which obtained and translated the tape.) My name is Yasir Hammad al-Hassan Ali. I live in Nuseirat [a refugee camp in the Gaza Strip]. I was born in 1964. I finished high school, then attended Gaza Polytechnic. Later, I went to work for Islamic University in Gaza as a clerk. I'm married and I have two daughters. The Qassam Battalions are the only group in Palestine explicitly dedicated to jihad [holy war]. Our primary concern is Palestinians who collaborate with the enemy. Many young men and women have fallen prey to the cunning traps laid by the [Israeli] Security Services. Since our enemies are trying to obliterate our nation, cooperation with them is clearly a terrible crime. Our most important objective must be to put an end to the plague of collaboration. To do so, we abduct collaborators, intimidate and interrogate them in order to uncover other collaborators and expose the methods that the enemy uses to lure Palestinians into collaboration in the first place. In addition to that, naturally, we confront the problem of collaborators by executing them. We don't execute every collaborator. After all, about 70 percent of them are innocent victims, tricked or black-mailed into their misdeeds. The decision whether to execute a collaborator is based on the seriousness of his crimes. If, like many collaborators, he has been recruited as an agent of the Israeli Border Guard then it is imperative that he be executed at once. He's as dangerous as an Israeli soldier, so we treat him like an Israeli soldier. There's another group of collaborators who perform an even more loathsome role -- the ones who help the enemy trap young men and women in blackmail schemes that force them to become collaborators. I regard the "isqat" [the process by which a Palestinians is blackmailed into collaboration] of single person as greater crime than the killing of a demonstrator. If someone is guilty of causing repeated cases of isqat, than it is our religious duty to execute him. A third group of collaborators is responsible for the distribution of narcotics. They work on direct orders from the Security Services to distribute drugs as widely as possible. Their victims become addicted and soon find it unbearable to quit and impossible to afford more. They collaborate in order to get the drugs they crave. The dealers must also be executed. In the battalions, we have developed a very careful method of uncovering collaborators, We can't afford to abduct an innocent person, because once we seize a person his reputation is tarnished forever. We will abduct and interrogate a collaborator only after evidence of his guilt has been established -- never before. If after interrogation the collaborator is found guilty beyond any doubt, then he is executed. In many cases, we don't have to make our evidence against collaborators public, because everyone knows that they're guilty. But when the public isn't aware that a certain individual is a collaborator, and we accuse him, people are bound to ask for evidence. Many people will proclaim his innocence, so there must be irrefutable proof before he is executed. This proof is usually obtained in the form of a confession. At first, every collaborator denies his crimes. So we start off by showing the collaborator the testimony against him. We tell him that he still has a chance to serve his people, even in the last moment of his life, by confessing and giving us the information we need. We say that we know his repentance in sincere and that he has been a victim. That kind of talk is convincing. Most of them confess after that. Others hold out; in those cases, we apply pressure, both psychological and physical. Then the holdouts confess as well. Only one collaborator has ever been executed without an interrogation. In that case, the collaborator had been seen working for the Border Guard since before the intifada, and he himself confessed his involvement to a friend, who disclosed the information to us. In addition, three members of his network of collaborators told us that he had caused their isqat. With this much evidence, there was no need to interrogate him. But we are very careful to avoid wrongful executions. In every case, our principal is the same: the accused should be interrogated until he himself confesses his crimes. A few weeks ago, we sat down and complied a list of collaborators to decide whether there were any who could be executed without interrogation. An although we had hundreds of names, still, because of our fear of God and of hell, we could not mark any of these men, except for the one I just mentioned, for execution. When we execute a collaborator in public, we use a gun. But after we abduct and interrogate a collaborator, we can't shoot him -- to do so might give away our locations. That's why collaborators are strangled. Sometimes we ask the collaborator, "What do you think? How should we execute you?" One collaborator told us, "Strangle me." He hated the sight of blood.
I have made this clear elsewhere but will do so again. Khomeini put a price on the head of someone in another country, this makes him a jerk as well as an international outlaw. Khomeini advocates the view that there was a series of twelve Islamic leaders (the Twelve Imams) who are free of error or sin. This makes him a heretic. In the Qur'an Muhammad is chastised for error directly by God; the Qur'an says that Muhammad is the greatest example of proper Islamic behavior; thus no muslim is free from error. Perhaps it seems so to you, but this is hardly the case. There is widespread agreement about matters of Islam. There certainly are many viewpoints on issues which are not particularly Islamic in and of themselves, but this is so for any large group of people under the same name. The Qur'an is not particularly imprecise in wording, though it is true that several interpretations are possible in the interpretations of many words. However, as an entire text the Qur'an makes its meanings precise enough for intelligent people free from power lust to come to agreement about them.
I don't want to sell this car, but I need money for college. 1972 Chevelle Super Sport Rebuilt 402, four speed, 12 Bolt positrac Numbers match 110,000 original miles no rust Looks and runs excellent $5995 or best offer. Call Dennis at (503)343-3759 or email dennisk@cs.uoregon.edu
I would assume that the words (I saw the picture) indicated that those SEATS will not be available for baseball games. If you look at the picture of the diamond in the stadium, in relation to the areas marked "NOT FOR BASEBALL", those seats just look terrible for watching baseball. Now, if they should happen to reach the post-season, I would imagine that they would consider opening some of those seats up, but that is surely a worry of the future. Sam Lubchansky spl2@po.cwru.edu "In the champion, people see what they'd like to be. In the loser, they see what they actually are, and they treat him with scorn."
are you sure 45g is the right number? as far as i know, pilots are blackout in dives that exceed 8g - 9g. 45g seems to be out of human tolerance. would anybody clarify this please. lan
How is a scriptural Levitical priesthood resumed? Are there any Jews who can legitimately prove their Levite bloodline?
Hi I am a Sociology student and I am currently researching into young offenders. I am looking at the way various groups of children are raised at home. At the moment I am formlulating information on discipline within the Christian home. Please, if you are a parent in this catagory can you email me your response to the following questionaire. All responses will be treated confidentially and will only be used to prepare stats. 1. Ages & sexes of children 2. Do you spank your kids? 3. If so how often? 4. Do you use an implement to spank with? 5. If you do not spank, what method of discipline do you use? 6. Your age? 7. Your location 8. While under the age of 16 did you ever commit a criminal offence? 9. How ere you disciplined as a kid Thank you in advance for any reply you can make. Please e-mail your replies rather than post them on the newsgroup
Just a few comments about the feasability of zipping up a bunch of miles on your electronic odometer with an oscillator.... I wouldn't expect to be able to do this. Not because the engineers at BMW are putting in anti-fraud logic, but just because an automobile is a noisy, hostile environment for electronics, and I would expect the software to be conservative. If I were to design a microprocessor-based odometer/speedometer program, it would have the following features ( just off the top of my head ): * Debouncing/deglitching ( Is this a real pulse, or just a glitch? ) * Smoothing: The rate-of-change of speed cannot be too high: This is a car, not an electron. * Top speed limit: Anything above 200MPH is ridiculous: must be electrical noise or contact bounce As for getting in and presetting the pins: if this is the circuit board out of a BMW dashboard, I seem to remember a single big chip with lotsa pins in the middle of the card. Good luck getting at the counter :-). I wouldn't expect a high input frequency to damage the meter: remember, it's probably damped so it can't move too fast, and is probably protected. After all, a car is an extremely hostile place for delicate electronics; there used to be an app note in the National Semiconductor Linear Databook that went into this in good detail. - Jerry Kaidor ( tr2!jerry@dragoman.com, jkaidor@synoptics.com )
Ted Frank's list of underpaid players was this: What do all of these players have in common? They do not qualify for arbitration. They were never free agents. It's called the reserve clause. Look it up. And a year from now we will whine about how several of these guys are way overpaid and getting outrageous raises in arb. Humbug.
I'll take a wild guess and say Freedom is objectively valuable. I base this on the assumption that if everyone in the world were deprived utterly of their freedom (so that their every act was contrary to their volition), almost all would want to complain. Therefore I take it that to assert or believe that "Freedom is not very valuable", when almost everyone can see that it is, is every bit as absurd as to assert "it is not raining" on a rainy day. I take this to be a candidate for an objective value, and it it is a necessary condition for objective morality that objective values such as this exist.
> Hi there, > Can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found > on most arcade style games. Many projects I am working on would > be greatly augmented if I could implement them. Thanx in advance. HAP controls just outside Chicago sells these. I don't remember which suburb they are in. The prices are pretty reasonable and they are easy to hook up. I bought a new coin mechanism from them for $25.00 a couple of years ago.
Second week of January (prime ski season at one of the largest Poconos ski areas). Just north of Allentown. Condo sleeps 6-8 depending on how friendly you all are. Has hot tub, deck. Easy access to parking lot and shuttle to slopes (condo is a few miles from the slopes). Cost: $6000 OBRO, price based on what we paid for it (used, also) and current market. [RICHR]
I thought this was a neat feature until I noticed that when an image is re-sized, the scanning frequency is necessarily changed. This causes digital multiscan monitors like my MAG MX17F to get confused as to which mode to use if the frequency gets too far from the standard selections. For this reason, I use the "factory defaults" for position/size on the ATI card and adjust each mode individually (only the first time) at the monitor. The MAG (and many other multiscan monitors) has (have) the ability to recall these settings the next time each mode is "detected". -- =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
In <1993Apr15.143320.8618@desire.wright.edu>, demon@desire.wright.edu sez: There's this minor thing called "interest of finality/repose". What it means is that parties aren't dragged into court over and over again because the losing side "discovers" some "new" evidence. I don't know about you, Brett, but I suspect GM had the resources to find just about as many expert and fact witnesses as it wanted before the trial started. Letting them re-open the case now is practically an invitation to every civil litigant on earth to keep an ace in the hole in case the verdict goes against him. BTW, in federal criminal cases, Rule 33 does permit a motion for a new trial "based on . . . *newly discovered* evidence" if made within 2 years of the verdict. (Emphasis mine.) If you're trying to make a backhanded point about criminal justice in a discussion that has little to do with criminal trials -- as the estimable David Brock did in his amusing WSJ piece last week -- save your breath. Yup. Which is why they shoulda been brought around the first time through. Unless there's some reason to believe that this supposed bias predated the trial (as opposed to being a product of it), and that GM was unfairly prevented from discovering it (by venireman concealment or otherwise), why should GM be allowed to complain?
I consulted with someone working on an electronic odometer. The design was to use a microprocessor based system to write a somewhat ofuscated pattern into an EEPROM. The idea was to make the circuit difficult to program arbitrary values into the EEPROM. The secondary purpose, acutally the primary purpose from the standpoint of practicality, was to distributed the writes so as to avoid exceeing the maximum number of writes fof the EEPROM being used. The microprocessor also ignored pulses coming from the Hall effect at a rate any higher than 110 MPH so as to make spoofing the reading by bench pulsing at least somewhat undesirable. This was for an automobile that was not expected to ever exceed 110 MPH in operation. The case, of course, might not be the same for your 1993 RX-7! The ECM modules of some cars do indeed store info about conditions under which cars have been operated. Since steering angle and velocity data, etc is available it would not be difficult to collect all sorts of interesting demographic information about the drivers' use of the car. I am not aware of any manufacturer currently trying to enforce warranty restrictions based on reading out use data from the ECM. While it could be a potential invasion of your privacy for manufacturers to have access to data about your driving style, it could also provide valuable information from actual field use conditions to help engineer more appropriate cars. I personally wouldn't mind the dealer collecting my driving demographics as long as it is done in an anonymous fashion.
Did you check with the Afghans before posting this? They might disagree.
I have a 486 machine with a 3.5" A: drive and a 5.25" B: drive. I want to swap them so 3.5" drive is A: What do I have to do? TIA
Digi-Key also sells Quad Line Receivers, parts DS1489AN (68cents) and DS1489N (48cents). A Quad Line Driver, part DS1488 (48cents), is also sold. I guess if you don't won't to supply +12V, the chips with the pump-up circuitry might be worth the extra cost. But 1488's and 1489's are available at your friendly neighborhood RS, parts MC1488 (276-2520) for $1.29 and MC1489 (276-2521) for $1.29.
I offer $100, shipment at seller's expense, payment as personal check sent by U.S. mail within 24 hours after receiving goods. I reserve the right to return the goods, at my expense, if I find them to be defective or otherwise unacceptable when I receive them (either the merchandise or the check would be mailed within 24 hours).
[This belongs in comp.windows.x.i386unix - I've redirected followups] I know for a fact that the EISA version of the Orchid ProDesigner IIS works. However, an EISA SVGA card is likely a waste of money. When XFree86 2.0 comes out, with support for accelerated chipsets, ISA, EISA, and VLB will all be supported. The more important question is "what chipsets are supported?". The bus is basically irrelevent as a compatibility issue. -- David Wexelblat <dwex@mtgzfs3.att.com> (908) 957-5871 Fax: (908) 957-5627 AT&T Bell Laboratories, 200 Laurel Ave - 3F-428, Middletown, NJ 07748 XFree86 requests should be addressed to <xfree86@physics.su.oz.au>
I am a student at UW-Eau Claire. I am doing a paper an witches and wanted to get your point of view. I will not use you name unless you specifically tell me to do so. Please answer this question: As a Christian, are you offended by witches and Wiccan? Do you feel that tehy are pagan in the evil sense of the word? You time and cooperation is appreciated. Thanks, J. -This survey is being conducted in partial fulfillment of the course requirements for Engl 201, taught by Karen Welch at the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. This course is in compliance with the course certification requirements of the University Institutional Review Board for the PRotection of Human Subjects.
May I respectfully suggest you NOT do this?? The ground is supposed to be a protective ground, and though what you suggest looks good on paper, it's dangerous to rely on the same wire for power and protection. It'd never meet code, and if you now own the property and later sell it, you may end up with liabilities you don't want, and if you _don't_ now own it, well...
"Space Station Redesign Leader Says Cost Goal May Be Impossible" Today (4/6) the Washington Post ran an article with the headline shown above. The article starts with "A leader of the NASA team in charge of redesigning the planned space station said yesterday the job is tough and may be impossible." O'Connor is quoted saying whether it is possible to cut costs that much and still provide for meaningful research "is a real question for me." O'Connor said "everything is fair game," including "dropping or curtailing existing contracts with the aerospace industry, chopping management of the space station program at some NASA facilities around the country, working closely with the Russian space station Mir, and using unmanned Titan rockets to supplement the manned space shuttle fleet." O'Connor says his team has reviewed 30 design options so far, and they are sorting the serious candidates into three categories based on cost. The Post says O'Connor described the design derived from the current SSF as a high cost option (I believe Kathy Sawyer, the Post writer, got confused here. I listened in on part of O'Connor's briefing to the press on Monday, and in one part of the briefing O'Connor talked about how the White House wants three options, sorted by cost [low, medium, and high]. In another part of the briefing, he discussed the three teams he has formed to look at three options [SSF derivative @ LaRC, modular buildup with Bus-1 @ MSFC, and Single Launch Core ["wingless Orbiter"] @ JSC. Later, in response to a reporters question, I thought I heard O'Connor say the option based on a SSF redesign was a "moderate" cost option, in between low & high cost options. Not the "high cost" option as Sawyer wrote). The article goes on to describe the other two options as "one features modules that could gradually be fitted together in orbit, similar to the Russian Mir. The other is a core facility that could be deposited in orbit in a single launch, like Skylab. That option would use existing hardware from the space shuttle - the fuselage, for example, in its basic structure."
This was known as *Journey to the Far Side of the Sun* in the United States and as *Doppelganger* in the U.K. It was produced by the great team of Gerry and Sylvia Anderson (whose science was usually a bit better than this). It may have been their first production using live actors-- they were better known for their technophilic puppet shows, such as *Supercar*, *Stingray*, and *Thunderbirds*. Later, they went on to do more live-action SF series: *UFO* and *Space: 1999*. The astronomy was lousy, but the lifting-body spacecraft, VTOL airliners, and mighty Portugese launch complex were *wonderful* to look at.
If anyone has the current Moto Guzzi National Owners Club address please e-mail it to me. Thanks in advance! T.K.
Count me interested in a Cardinal's mailing list. If anyone finds one or starts one, please let me know. Thanks, Dick Detweiler
Hello, I am looking for the Coleco Tablehockey games that were popular in the 70's. The games that I seek have straight slots for the defenseman, not the S shaped slots. The players are attatched to rods operated with springs. If you have a game(or games) that you would be willing to part with, please send me an e-mail message at U34815@uicvm.uic.edu. Price is negotiable and I would also cover shipping if you are out of state. I am part of a league that plays on a regular basis, the CTHL (The Chicago Table Hockey League), and need a game to practice on. Also, the league itself is always interested in purchasing games to expand itself. Thank You, Ken Harris. equipment to expand it's size.
This may be the dumbest question of the year, but is there a way to 'piggyback' or expand a 6-slot motherboard (all 16-bit) to get the usual 8? My case has slots for 8, and I'd like to get a scanner, but with all my other cards I'm already max'd out! I'm hoping that a simple solution exists, e.g. an adapter that turns one slot into three. I don't mind if it turns it into 8-bit slots, as I can put my I/O card, MIDI card, and Soundblaster card there. My other cards are 16 bit (IDE/Floppy, SVGA, modem). If there is such an expander, does that screw up performance of everything else? I'd hate to buy a new motherboard! :-(
I'm pretty sure that Sandberg has done this at least once. (I know someone will correct me if I'm wrong.) RBIs and Runs scored are the two most important offensive statistics. You can talk about OBP and SLG% all you want, but the fact remains: The team that scores more runs wins the game! --------------------------------------------- Flame Away -- John Bratt
There was a recent discussion of Dungeons and Dragons and other role playing games. Since there is a lot of crossover between gamers and science fiction and fantasy fans, I will mention that I am the editor and publisher of RADIO FREE THULCANRA, a Christian-oriented science fiction fanzine. It is not a Christian magazine with a special interest in science fiction. It is a science fiction fanzine with a special interest in Christianity. Gaming is not a major topic of discussion but it has come up in some letters. (No, there are no arguments about whether D&D is satanic. People who think it is are not likely to be reading RFT.) Anyway, I am now working on the April issue. I will send a sample copy to any reader of soc.religion.christian who requests it. It is printed on paper, so requests should include a snail-mail address. ------- Marty Helgesen Bitnet: mnhcc@cunyvm Internet: mnhcc@cunyvm.cuny.edu
Issue 5 of the X Resource (the published proceedings of the 7th Annual X Technical Conference) has an paper by Mark Linton and Chuck Price titled "Building Distributed interfaces with Fresco". The summary describes Fresco (formerly known as XC++) as an X consortium effort. Without doing a complete review of the paper, I'll just mention the goals as stated in one section of the article. the effort has the goal of providing the next generation toolkit with functionality beyond the Xt toolkit or Xlib. Features they want in FRESCO include: lightweight Objects, such as Interviews Glyphs Structured Graphics Resolution independence Natural C++ programming interface edit-in-place embedding distributed user interface components Multithreading This by no means captures the complete content of the paper. The Conclusions sections mentions that a rough draft specification should be available in early 93, with no schedule (paper presented in Jan 93) for a complete sample implementation. I am not affiliated with any of the people or places mentioned above. -- Brian Dealy |301-572-8267| It not knowing where it's at dealy@kong.gsfc.nasa.gov | | that's important,it's knowing !uunet!dftsrv!kong!dealy | | where it's not at... B.Dylan
A practical suggestion, to be sure, but one could *also* peek into news.lists, where Brian Reid has posted "USENET Readership report for Mar 93." Another posting called "USENET READERSHIP SUMMARY REPORT FOR MAR 93" gives the methodology and caveats of Reid's survey. (These postings failed to appear for a while-- I wonder why?-- but they are now back.) Reid, alas, gives us no measure of the "power/influence" of readers... Sorry, Mark. I suspect Mark, dangling out there on Fidonet, may not get news.lists so I've mailed him copies of these reports. The bottom line? +-- Estimated total number of people who read the group, worldwide. | +-- Actual number of readers in sampled population | | +-- Propagation: how many sites receive this group at all | | | +-- Recent traffic (messages per month) | | | | +-- Recent traffic (kilobytes per month) | | | | | +-- Crossposting percentage | | | | | | +-- Cost ratio: $US/month/rdr | | | | | | | +-- Share: % of newsrders | | | | | | | | who read this group. V V V V V V V V 88 62000 1493 80% 1958 4283.9 19% 0.10 2.9% sci.space The first figure indicates that sci.space ranks 88th among most-read newsgroups. I've been keeping track sporadically to watch the growth of traffic and readership. You might be entertained to see this. Oct 91 55 71000 1387 84% 718 1865.2 21% 0.04 4.2% sci.space Mar 92 43 85000 1741 82% 1207 2727.2 13% 0.06 4.1% sci.space Jul 92 48 94000 1550 80% 1044 2448.3 12% 0.04 3.8% sci.space May 92 45 94000 2023 82% 834 1744.8 13% 0.04 4.1% sci.space (some kind of glitch in estimating number of readers happens here) Sep 92 45 51000 1690 80% 1420 3541.2 16% 0.11 3.6% sci.space Nov 92 78 47000 1372 81% 1220 2633.2 17% 0.08 2.8% sci.space (revision in ranking groups happens here(?)) Mar 93 88 62000 1493 80% 1958 4283.9 19% 0.10 2.9% sci.space Possibly old Usenet hands could give me some more background on how to interpret these figures, glitches, or the history of Reid's reporting effort. Take it to e-mail-- it doesn't belong in sci.space.
Hello. I have the following for sale. Most of the books are in perfect condition. If interested please e-mail to chungy2@rpi.edu. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Through The Telescope (hard cover) $14.00 Surface Physics (soft cover) $13.00 The Physics of Structurally Disordered Matter: An Introduction (soft cover) $55.00 Subatomic Physics (hard cover) $57.00 A First General Relativity (hard cover) $20.00 Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics (soft cover) $8.00 Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics. Vol 1. (hard cover) $30.00 Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics. Vol 3. (hard cover) $30.00 Molecular Beams (hard cover) $15.00 Molecular Beams and Reaction Kinetics. (hard cover) $20.00 Perturbation Methods in Applied Mathematics. (hard cover) $40.00 Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems. (hard cover) $27.00 Vector Mechanics for Engineers: Statics and Dynamics. (hard cover) $30.00 Free-Electron Lasers. (hard cover) $20.00
I did the same thing to my drain plug for the same reasons. I was wondering how you filled your crankcase though as I welded my hood shut also out of fear that somebody might steal my air-filter.
Not quite true. One of the instruments on Mars Observer will be searching for potential fossil sites.
: really involved there). Many people using Linux like to stay at the cutting : (bleeding) edge: ie. when kernel patches, C library or compiler patches come : out, people like to rebuild their entire systems. The prime requirement for : all Linux software is that it is available under a GNU style public license. : Hence, Linux software uses either the Athena widgets or XView. : Individuals may write software requiring Motif, but I doubt it is widely : adopted. Shameless plug -- the Xaw3d widgets make Athena a much nicer alternative than the stock MIT Athena code. ...Mike
Do I smell .sig material here? /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ Bob Beauchaine bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM They said that Queens could stay, they blew the Bronx away, and sank Manhattan out at sea.
TRH> I hope you're not going to flame him. Please give him the same coutesy you' TRH> ve given me. But you have been courteous and therefore received courtesy in return. This person instead has posted one of the worst arguments I have ever seen made from the pro-Christian people. I've known several Jesuits who would laugh in his face if he presented such an argument to them. Let's ignore the fact that it's not a true trilemma for the moment (nice word Maddi, original or is it a real word?) and concentrate on the liar, lunatic part. The argument claims that no one would follow a liar, let alone thousands of people. Look at L. Ron Hubbard. Now, he was probably not all there, but I think he was mostly a liar and a con-artist. But look at how many thousands of people follow Dianetics and Scientology. I think the Baker's and Swaggert along with several other televangelists lie all the time, but look at the number of follower they have. As for lunatics, the best example is Hitler. He was obviously insane, his advisors certainly thought so. Yet he had a whole country entralled and came close to ruling all of Europe. How many Germans gave their lives for him? To this day he has his followers. I'm just amazed that people still try to use this argument. It's just so obviously *wrong*.
... deletions... same as the pattern if no sim was in place. This leads me to believe Many motherboards have jumpers to enable/disable the memory banks. Did you check that out?
Ok people, I really need to sell this sampler to pay off bills, so I'm even going to include 3 sample cds worth at least 200 separately in this deal..... It's an Emax II with standard memory and 16 bit stereo sampling It's rackmount and has at least 24 voice pol., It's got a brand new Connor (sp.?) 170 meg internal scsi drive (4 wk old, never used) it works perfect and runs perfect. In addition access to a friends sound library of over 1gig of sounds is available... All this for only $1600.. The sample cd's are based on dance/house/techno stuff. Email or call 213-341-4425 thanks
I want to be able to take a bunch of home-made songs (from DAT or other suitable master) and output them to a short run (10-20 off) of standard music CDs. Would one of the CD recorders designed for writeable CD ROMs work for this purpose? Alternatively, is there a service that does this sort of thing for a fee? I'm after as much information as possible on the alternatives (cost, lead time, equipment required, procedure to follow, etc.) Email replies would be appreciated.
Uh Oh! The first sign of an argument without merit--the stating of one's "qualifications" in an area. If you know something about Nazi Germany, show it. If you don't, shut up. Simple as that.
Yes, but in a fairly reproducible way. -40 is only a smidgen of the distance to absolute zero. And in any case you're going to have to borrow freezer space from a bio lab or someone to test/calibrate this darling anyway. Btw, you're probably going to want those big capacitors you found to fire the solenoid -- High current drain on frozen batteries can be an ugly thing.
Except for the fact that there seems to be a lot of high scoring AL games also and I don't think the expansion teams directly affect them. K. Scott Day (kday@oasys.dt.navy.mil) Carderock Division, Naval Surface Warfare Center Code 1252 Bethesda, Maryland 20084-5000 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * "The point to remember is that what the government gives * it must first take away." * -John S. Coleman
Well, the title says it all...I'm looking to buy cheap used TG-16 Gmaes which have 2 or more player support (Simultaneous).... Please email me all offers with a price...
Besides this was the same line of horse puckey the mining companies claimed when they were told to pay for restoring land after strip mining. they still mine coal in the midwest, but now it doesn't look like the moon when theyare done.
: Yes, I know it sounds crazy. Call it an urge. Call it what you want. : Just don't ask why :-) : Anyway, I'd like to build a UV flashlight, cheaply. "flashlight" means : it should be reasonably portable, but could have a power pack if : necessary. : My main question is the bulb: where can I get UV bulbs? Do they : need a lot of power? etc., etc. : I'm not too concerned with whether it's long-wave or short-wave : (but hey, if anyone has a cheap source of bulbs, I'll take both). Check out a medical supply catalog, the thing you are looking for is called a woods lamp (so you can check for woods sign, certain skin conditions flourecse (sp) under UV light) They come in disposable penlight like types and larger ac powered types. It is also used in eye examinations, a flourescent dye is introduced to the surface of the eye, then UV is shined on it, shows up scratches and abrasions very clearly that would otherwise be very difficult to detect. (for the completest the dye is called flouescien, and in normal light appears orangish, and leaves a mild burning sensation to the eye for 10-15 minutes, until the tears flush it all out. Have fun.
Is there a QIC-80 format tape drive that comes with an EISA controller ? Colorado's 250 only has ISA and MCA controllers. Thanks. e-mail please. --
No. The christians were leary of having an atheist spokesman (seems so clandestine, and all that), so they had him removed. Of course, Keith is busy explaining to his fellow captives how he isn't really being persecuted, since (after all) they *are* feeding him, and any resistance on his part would only be viewed as trouble making. I understand he did make a bit of a fuss when they tatooed "In God We Trust" on his forehead, though. /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ Bob Beauchaine bobbe@vice.ICO.TEK.COM They said that Queens could stay, they blew the Bronx away, and sank Manhattan out at sea.
Can somebody please help me with information about an American Magnetics Corporation Magstripe Card Reader that I recently bought locally from a surplus dealer. On the rear it has the following information: American Magnetics Corporation Carson, CA, USA Magstripe Card Reader Model 41, P/N 507500 - 2300112311 It is fitted with a cable with a RS232 Cannon 25-pin connector on the end and has a separate power connector like the once used with wall chargers. Frode
The only way out seems to be death. --- " I'd Cheat on Hillary Too."
On the other side of the fence, I owned a Bieffe off-road helmet. Took what I would consider a minor fall, and had visible damage to the shell. Yes, the helmet did its job. But the damage/impact ratio was scary. I own Bell Moto-5 now, have taken impacts on order of twice the Bieffe impact (we do this frequently in MX), and don't even have a scratch on it after two seasons. My recommendation is to buy _high_ quality gear. YMMV.
Does anybody have an opinion on the Philips 1762DT 17" monitor? How does it compare to the Nanao 17"? I am looking for a good 17" (like many other net'ers) and found a good price for the Philips. Here some the specs: Sony Trinitron tube digital micro control 1280x1024 NI .25 dp 300x225 mm display area to 100 Hz refresh anti-glare, MPR-II... auto-scan 30-64 kHz Why don't I ever see this monitor for sale (ONE company in Apr computer shopper) What is the 1764DC? What is the best price around for this?.... and how 'bout that MAG 17"? I love my MAG 15" (except for that little color alignment thing on the l/r edges)...
This appeared today in the
Can someone send me ticket ordering information for the following teams: Baltimore, Philadelphia and Boston. Also, if you have a home schedule available - can you tell me the dates for all home games between July26-Aug6 and between Aug30-Sept10 and if any of these games are promotion nights or special discount nights? Thanks !!! Ron PS: and also who the opponents are for these games :-) Do NOT reply to this account, please reply to: ronc@vnet.ibm.com
In fact, you can all direct your ire at the proper target by ingoring NASA altogether. The rocket is a commercial launch vechicle - a Conestoga flying a COMET payload. NASA is simply the primary customer. I believe SDIO has a small payload as well. The advertising space was sold by the owners of the rocket, who can do whatever they darn well please with it. In addition, these anonymous "observers" had no reason to be startled. The deal made Space News at least twice. I think its only fair to find that out before everyone starts having a hissy fit. The fact that they bothered to use the conditional tense suggests that it has not yet been approved.
Hi! I have a problem with my floppy drives. In an effort to make my 3.5" drive (normally b:) my a: drive, I switched the order of connections on the cable from the serial card/floppy/ide controller. I booted up, changed the CMOS settings to reflect the a: drive as the 3.5 and the b: drive as the 5.25. The drive lights didn't come on, and there was a failure trying to read from those drives. I switched the cables back to their original positions, and then booted-up and restored the original CMOS settings. The lights for the floppies came on during this process, and they stay on for as long as the computer is on. I see that when there is a disk in a:, the drive is spinning, yet there seems to be no disk access. MSD.EXE and Norton SI detect both drives, but when I try to get detailed information about a: or b:, Norton SI tells me that there is no disk in the drive. Can anyone offer any suggestions? I'm in desperate need of help!!! Thank you for your time.
740 Turbo in UK was good for 124mph. Useful for blowing away VW Beetles, though I believe the Beetle corners better. I can say without any doubt that I have never been blown away by any Volvo, ever. I've been blocked into a few car parks though by shit-head Volvo owners who 'only thought they'd be a few minutes'. This does not happen with the owners of any other makes of car.
Why should he have been any different "then"? Ozzy Osbourne, ex-singer and main character of the Black Sabbath of good ole days past, is and always was a devout catholic. Or so I've heard over on the alt.rock-n-roll.metal newsgroups, an' I figure those folks oughta know..
From the Santa Rosa (Cal.) Press-Democrat, April 15, 1993, p. B2: Male sex survey: Gay activity low A new natonal study on male sexual behavior, the most thorough examination of American men's sexual practices published since the Kinsey report more than four decades ago, shows about 2 percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and 1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual. The figures on homosexuality in the study released Wednesday by the Alan Guttmacher Institute are significantly lower than the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional wisdom since it was published in the Kinsey report. The article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners. The median number of sexual partners for all men 20-39 was 7.3. Compared to the table I have already posted from Masters, Johnson, and Kolodny showing male homosexual partners, it is apparent that homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general male population. It's a shame that we don't have a breakdown for straight men vs. gay/bi men -- that would show even more dramatically how much more promiscuous gay/bi men are.
Hi, I've got a Multi I/O card (IDE controller + serial/parallel interface) and two floppy drives (5 1/4, 3 1/2) and a Quantum ProDrive 80AT connected to it. I was able to format the hard disk, but I could not boot from it. I can boot from drive A: (which disk drive does not matter) but if I remove the disk from drive A and press the reset switch, the LED of drive A: continues to glow, and the hard disk is not accessed at all. I guess this must be a problem of either the Multi I/o card or floppy disk drive settings (jumper configuration?) Does someone have any hint what could be the reason for it. Please reply by email to GERTHD@MVS.SAS.COM Thanks, Thomas +-------------------------------------------------------------------+ +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
The joystick reads in anolog values through a digital port. How? You send a command to the port to read it, then you time how long it takes for the joystick port to set a certain bit. This time is proportional to the joystick position. Obviously, since time is used as a position, you cannot get rid of this ridiculus waste of time. If you wrote your own routine instead of the BIOS, it would speed it up some, but the time would still be there. --
What do you mean? Are you saying they thought the effort was profitable or that the money was efficiently spent (providing max value per money spent)? I think they would answer yes on ballance to both questions. Exceptions would be places like the US from the French Indian War to the end of the US Revolution. But even after the colonies revolted or where given independance the British engaged in very lucrative trading with the former colonies. Five years after the American Revolution England was still the largest US trading partner. Allen
[ -and many others mailed me. Here is a reply to one of the letters. Seems to me that atheist do not like the doctrine of hell!] Your using 20th century concepts to interprete 1st century writers. Of course, in your termonology, God could not "cease to exist." However, that is not what death ever means in the Scriptures. If you will study the word, you will see that it signifies "separation." Death is separation, not ceastation. This is the reason for the agony of the cross. For the first time in eternity, one member of the Godhead was separated from the other two. I once met a young lady that was as beautiful as any model that ever lived. She was as personable as any saint ever imagined. She was to become my "girlfriend" for several years. However, having been drafted, we were separated by distance. To me that was a form of death. Later, she decided that she couldn't wait for me to come home and bid me adue. That to me was death. It was separation from that which had made me whole. Death is separation and eternal death is eternal separation from His fellowship, not because He chose to send you into outer darkness, but because you chose to go there. When I rebelled against my earthly father, he spanked me. I found no wisdom in that until I had grown older and especially until I had my own children. He was trying to guide me away from hurt that would enter my life if I continued on my suicidal course. He did it in love though I interpreted it as harsh and unloving. If God warns of impending danger, that is love. If choose to let us do as we please, and then at the end tell us the rules, that would be harsh. You have a conscience, no matter how calused or fallen it is, that witnesses to you that a thing is wrong and that there is cause for fear. This may give light to the error of your understanding. One must have correct knowledge in order to have correct faith. Faith and knowledge are inseparable. Jesus most certainly felt the "pinpricks" of life. As the Scripture say: Heb. 4:15 For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. The kenosis passage of Phil 2 states that He gave up His Godhead attributes when He took upon Himself humanity. It has been a favorite meditation of mine to think about this. It was to be my PhD thesis. "The Consciousness of Christ." I have talked at length with a great many people about this interesting study, including clh. It is my conclussion that as Jesus, the 2nd member of the Trinity, actually suffered as we do. He became part of the human race and experienced it as we do. He "grew in knowledge." He chose not to grasp His omniscience, but chose to be taught. It is my understanding that He was "led of the Spirit" to such an extent that sometimes it is hard to distinquish between Jesus the man and Jesus as God. But in Jn 8 where the adulterous women was thrown before Him, the tenses are quite clear in that the whole situation took Him by surprise. That is, He was not aware that this event was to take place in time. He was living sequential history as you or I. Maybe some other time we can discuss this, but it is a very lengthy discussion and one that causes the curcuit breakers of the brain to pop more often than not. I was once a member of that club. THe "free thinker" is a glorious ideal. By contrast, of course, you believe that the believer is the unforunate repository of everything that is dogmatic, inhibited, reactionary and repressive. I find such a stance to be as amusing as it is absurd. If the liberal humanist wishes to criticize a Christian or a Buddhist or a Marxist, that is his right. But what he must not pretend is that he was led to this solely by his "rational doubt" when in fact he was led to it by his "faith". He must acknowledge that while it is rational doubt for him as a "free thinker" to criticize the Christian, it might equally be a rational doubt for the Christian to criticize him as a humanist. If there is no faith, there can be no dout. There is no faith which cannot choose to cast doubt on some other faith. Pascal pointed out that "sceptical arguments allow the positive to be positive. Few. . .speak dubiously of scepticism." The fact that skeptics are not skeptical about skepticism is further evidence that to doubt anything we must believe in something else! THe person who is skeptical toward one faith or even most faiths, will be the devoted adherent of another. In fact, it is a measure of his poverty both that he is unaware of it and that he can define himself only in negative terms, hence the term "a"-theist. Some people claim otherwise and argue vociferously for complete skepticism. In my campus ministry I ran across this more times than I care to remember. However, they disproved their own argument with every thought, every word, every point of logic that they used. Every moment of shared communication speaks against their total skepticism. Their very insistence of trying to make sense is eloquent testimony to assumptions that are powerful though silent. That is to say, that complete skepticism is impossible and limited skepticism is arbitrary. Next time you're in a room of skeptics, yell out "Look, your fly is undone!" Each person chooses what he is skeptical about and what he believes without skepticism. To stress this is to belabor the obvious, but it underlines the point that no one can know exhaustively how he knows what he knows. Pure objectivism is a myth and complete skepticism an impossiblity. The answer to this impasse lies in a 3rd way of knowing, one which is based on presuppositions. But if knowledge proceeds on what must be presupposed before it is proved, the cover is blown on the pretentions of critical doubt, and critical doubt depends on the idea that human knowledge is totally objective and neutral. In other words, another myth. Presuppositions my friend. It is impossible to doubt anything unless there is something we do not doubt -our own assumptions/presuppostions. Even these can be criticezed only upon the basis of other assumptions. Presuppostitons are our silent partners in thought but their silence must not be mistaken for absence. Of course that is hardly an original statement. Milton coined it but it had been in use for millenia. It was even used in the first "Highlander" movie. But again, your presuption is based on a faulty knowledge of the character of God. You are operating off of a presuppositional premise of humanistic theology, not what He has revealed of Himself through history, through His prophets, through His Word, and lastly, but most of all, thru His Son. If you are to reject God's annointed savior, then reject Him from a correct understanding of Himself.
I was suggesting that the minority of professional and amateur astronomers have the right to a dark, uncluttered night sky. Let me give you an example. When you watch TV, they have commercials to pay for the programming. You accept that as part of watching. If you don't like it, you can turn it off. If you want to view the night sky, and there is a floating billboard out there, you can't turn it off. It's the same reasoning that limits billboards in scenic areas. George. It's called a democracy. The majority rules. sorry. If ytou don't like it, I suggest you modify the constitution to include a constitutional right to Dark Skies. The theory of government here is that the majority rules, except in the nature of fundamental civil rights. I say: Any reasonably in-depth perusal of American history will show you that many WASPs have continued the practices of prejudice, discrimination, and violence against others of different races, religions, and beliefs, despite the law. If you really are annoyed, get some legislation to create a dark sky zone, where in all light emissions are protected in the zone. Kind of like the national radio quiet zone. Did you know about that? near teh Radio telescope observatory in West virginia, they have a 90?????? mile EMCON zone. Theoretically they can prevent you from running light AC motors, like air conditioners and Vacuums. In practice, they use it mostly to control large radio users. I say: What I'm objecting to here is a floating billboard that, presumably, would move around in the sky. I, for one, am against legislating at all. I just wish that people had a bit of common courtesy, and would consider how their greed for money impacts the more ethereal and aesthetic values that make us human. This includes the need for wild and unspoiled things, including the night sky. George
On the other hand, it would be kind of scary if there were *never* a final verdict, because a party to litigation could keep saying "Oops! I forgot to bring up this evidence," and demand a new trial. You get one bite at the apple. It's up to General Motors to find those witnesses in the first litigation. You'd be up in arms if a plaintiff suing General Motors pulled the same stunt and made them relitigate an issue that they already lost. It's not as if General Motors couldn't file enough discovery motions to delay the trial until they found all the witnesses they wanted. Define "obvious bias." Did GM move for a new trial on those grounds? No? Perhaps they had a reason?
: The driver had looked over at me casually a couple of times; I : know he knew I was there. oh, okay. then in that case it was attemped vehicular manslaughter. he definitely wanted to kill you. all cagers want to kill bikers. that's the only explanation that i can think of.
Curtis Mathes VHS VCR Remote included and it works with universal remotes. 2 heads, Works great but I replaced it with a Stereo VCR. paid $300 years ago, will sell for $125 delivered OBO. Radio Shack stereo amp. 2 inputs, tone, and left and right volume. Speakers not included. Compact 12W unit for $20 plus shipping. Great for Amiga Stereo output or Soundblaster output. If you are interested in either of the above mail me, Keith, at radley@gibbs.oit.unc.edu or call me at 919-968-7779.
:-) T'was a time when I could get a respectable response with a posting like that. Randy's post doesn't count 'cause he saw the dearth of responses and didn't want me to feel ignored (thanks Randy!). I was curious about this DoD thing. How do I get a number? (:-{)}
No, the 6551A is able to operate in a 2 MHz system, the 6551 can only take 1 MHz without problems. If you see a 8551 made by MOS or CSG, take it, its a 6551A. I know no fixed version of the 6551. There are different possibilities to work around this bug. The easiest is to tie _CTS to GND and use _DSR or _DCD as _CTS. It should be easy to fix the software, _DSR is bit 6 and DCD ist bit 5 of the Status Register (Read 6551 with RS1 = low and RS0 = high). Using the _CTS-line can lead into big trouble. The 6551 _instantly_ stops transmission if _CTS goes high. This means, that you may get only a half byte... Gerrit
From the article "What's New" Apr-16-93 in sci.physics.research: ........ WHAT'S NEW (in my opinion), Friday, 16 April 1993 Washington, DC 1. SPACE BILLBOARDS! IS THIS ONE THE "SPINOFFS" WE WERE PROMISED? In 1950, science fiction writer Robert Heinlein published "The Man Who Sold the Moon," which involved a dispute over the sale of rights to the Moon for use as billboard. NASA has taken the firsteps toward this hideous vision of the future. Observers were startled this spring when a NASA launch vehicle arrived at the pad with "SCHWARZENEGGER" painted in huge block letters on the side of the booster rockets. Space Marketing Inc. had arranged for the ad to promote Arnold's latest movie. Now, Space Marketing is working with University of Colorado and Livermore engineers on a plan to place a mile-long inflatable billboard in low-earth orbit. NASA would provide contractual launch services. However, since NASA bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates (WN 26 Mar 93) the taxpayers would bear most of the expense. This may look like environmental vandalism, but Mike Lawson, CEO of Space Marketing, told us yesterday that the real purpose of the project is to help the environment! The platform will carry ozone monitors he explained--advertising is just to help defray costs. .......... What do you think of this revolting and hideous attempt to vandalize the night sky? It is not even April 1 anymore. What about light pollution in observations? (I read somewhere else that it might even be visible during the day, leave alone at night). Is NASA really supporting this junk? Are protesting groups being organized in the States? Really, really depressed. Enzo
Are most players who come up young always good when they're young, or later? Damn. I was afraid you would say that! Well, perhaps if the Braves had no one else worth playing this year it would be Lopez in there. But they do have others worth playing, at least in *their* opinion. And I happen to agree. I can believe that. I'm a newbie here, so I'll take your word. But Alomar *is* a fine defensive catcher, which was my statement above. That is a solid reason for bringing him up at a tender age, as long as they feel he can also hit a bit. Lopez does not have such a consensus about his defensive prowess, and imho that is enough to give him that dreaded "seasoning". Sorry. New. Don't know Nichols' Law. Don't believe in catchers' era. But I am interested in pitchers' eras with different catchers. Any info on that? In other words, we know more than they do, so the only logic behind a different decision than we would make must be financial. I presume we feel this way about other franchises than Atlanta, no? Well if it does make organizational sense, one can hardly fault them for their decisions. I mean, please don't tell me how to run my business. Especially when I'm being successful. I'm sure you could be right. You could also be smoking some illegal substance. (Hey. That's a joke. Don't get offended. Please.) Well, I can't cite anyone's ethical rectitude because I don't know what it means. :) But again, if it makes organizational sense, then so be it. Baseball is a business, and if there is a solid business reason for keeping Lopez on the farm then that's what the Braves *should* do. I happen to believe that it's a baseball decision. While you from your armchair may disagee, I don't. I think there is a lot of evidence to suggest the decision they made. I predicted it among large guffaws from several at the start of spring training. I think it is a very *normal* decision to have made. It is certainly more reversible than to have started Lopez in the bigs and have released one of their catchers. Sure, it may be conservative. It may also be logical. I don't know what ethics have to do with it. Seems like pretty good common sense to me. -- The Beastmaster
Is it appropriate for the Lord not to reveal certain things before the world (i.e., publish them widely)? These things sacred to Himself. He may place any pre- or post-conditions He feels are necessary. Moreover, there are precedents in scripture where knowledge of sacred things is withheld: 1. After the Transfiguration Jesus instructed Peter, James, and John to "tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead" (Matt. 17:9). If we were living at the time of Savior, there would be no (public) record of this event. 2. A faithful friend of Paul experiences a vision of "paradise" when he "heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter" (2 Cor. 12:4). This person heard something which Paul can not write to the Corinthians (and us). 3. There is an incident recorded in the Book of Mormon where words uttered by "babes" were "forbidden that there should not any man write them (3 Nephi 26:16, the entire text follows for those of you without access to the BOM). 3 Nephi 26:16 Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were forbidden that there should not any man write them. Some LDS scholars speculate that these words which could not be written are the sacred portions from temple we are to withhold from the world (but it could be something else). There is much we can discuss about the temple ordinances. We can discuss regarding baptisms and other vicarious ordinances for the dead. We can discuss certain concepts regarding the endowment ("the ritual"). However, there are certain elements I can not discuss with anyone (including other saints) outside of the temple. As a portion of the endowment, we receive the tokens and signs that will permit us access to Heaven. I must keep this knowledge sacred and respect the conditions under which it is revealed to me.
I'd like to compile X11r5 on a Sony NWS-1750 running NEWS 4.1c. The X distribution has support for this config, and the release notes say it has been tested on the machine. BUT, also in the release notes, nothing from Sony is listed under the supported servers. What am I supposed to use for my r5 X server then? How can the OS be supported, but not the hardware? Is there something in the r4 binaries that can be used as the r5 server? These may seem like silly questions, but I'm *really* confused. -- mike@hopper.acs.virginia.edu
Don't just nab it, POUNCE on it. These are fairly rare bikes, and they are MORE than adequate for putting a big brown stripe in your shorts. Does a 50mph power wheelie appeal to you? I thought it would... Only really bad things: the stock clutch isn't up to the task. Barnett can take care of this. The back tire wears quickly (gee, wonder why?), and the induction system is a bear to work on. Later,
Doesn't Motorola AMCU have something on the BBS yet? (512-891-3733)
JL-NS>Subject: Re: Motorcycle Courier (Summer Job) I'd like to thank everyone who replied. I will probably start looking in earnest after May, when I return from my trip down the Pacific Coast (the geographical feature, not the bike). Ryan Cousinetc.|1982 Yamaha Vision XZ550 -Black Pig of Inverness|Live to Ride KotRB |1958 AJS 500 C/S -King Rat |to Work to DoD# 0863 |I'd be a squid if I could afford the bike... |Flame to ryan.cousineau@compdyn.questor.org | Vancouver, BC, Canada |Live . . . * SLMR 2.1a * Have bike, will travel. Quickly. Very quickly.
I just thought I'd share a nice experience before my exam today. I was walking down the streets on our campus, and a beggar came up and asked me for any spare change I might have. I had a dollar or so that I gave her, and - not wanting to give away all my money to strangers (I generally give a dollar as that will buy a little food at McDonalds or something) - I offered her some "spiritual gifts," as I called them, rather than gifts of money. I talked of how great I felt that God had made such a pretty day, and how nice it was to give to people - she then said she was getting married soon. She talked about how she and her husband had very little (they may not have even had a house, for all I know), but that they felt a very special love in the Lord, an unselfish kind of caring. It warmed my heart to know that 2 people can have so little monetarily, and realize that spiritually they are indeed very rich. A good lesson for all of us who say we want more, more, more; what we really need cannot be counted, or sold, or bought.
Great speculation - I remember being proud on behalf of all the free world (you think that way when you are seven years old) that we had got there first. Now I'm almost sorry that it worked out that way. I guess the soviets would have taken the victory seriously too, and would almost certainly not have fallen victim to the complacency that overtook the US program. Perhaps stretching to match US efforts would have destabilized them sooner than it did in fact - and in the tradition of Marvel Comics 'What If', this destabilization in the Brezhnev era might have triggered the third world war. Hmm, maybe it was a giant leap after all.
Hello everyone, Could anyone tell me where to find some information about NetBios and Bios interrupt calls. A book or maybe an FTP site. Thank you in advance.
Why would you say "especially Christianity"?
: I need to know the Pins to connect to make a loopback connector for a serial : port so I can build one. The loopback connector is used to test the : serial port. : : Thanks for any help. : : : Steve : Me Too!!!!!!! skcgoh@tartarus.uwa.edu.au
See subject. An opportunity for sales-people (-persons? -entities?). I am looking for a commercial/PD graphics editor with fairly limited abilities that runs under X and preferably uses Motif widgets. It must run on HP-UX version 9, either with or without the PEX extension. The sort of things I want are simple drawing, resizing and moving of objects such as lines, rectangles and text. Bounding rectangle operations are sufficient for object selection. Ideally it should also allow the creation and placement of more complex objects such as widgets (e.g. text entry fields or labels), but this is not mandatory. Does anyone have such an animal? If you do, please mail me with details including price (especially run-time licensing since it must be included in a product). Alternatively, send glossies to me at Logica, 68 Newman Street, London W1, including technical info please. For PD stuff, I have some effort that could be put into porting. Thanks for any help, Nicholas Young.
I'm trying to set up a personal studio. What I'm looking for are a cheap sampler(rack or with keyboard) or a cheap sound card (AudioMedia I or II or something similar).
Not really, though I wouldn't personally say "the most deserving candidate wins". Rarely does a player win ROY when called up in mid season, and there have been several duds in recent years. But this is more a factor of mediot biases than anything else. (I wonder. If Amaral hits like he is capable of, will he receive ROTY votes? He's only 31, he could have a long career ahead of him! :-) I think they are a second-division team. They should finish ahead of the Royals, Mariners, and *possibly* Athletics. But I don't think they'll be above .500. (I think the East is stronger this year.) Last year their pitching was bad and their offense was horrible. This year their offense is better, but their pitching is still pretty bad. Even if Finley returns to form, he won't replace what they lost in Abbott. Sanderson? Farrell? I don't believe it. And while their BA may be good, and they have decent speed, their offense lacks punch. They don't have any bona fide power hitters. (Salmon, Snow, Davis, and Curtis? None with more than 20 HR potential.) Cheers, -Valentine
DH>>Does anyone out their have a mountain tape backup that I could compare DH>>notes with, (jumper settings, software, ect...) DH>>or does anyone know where I could contact the makers of this drive ? DH>You can contact Mountain Network Solutions at: DH>800-458-0300 (general number) DH>408-438-7897 (tech support) DH>408-438-2665 (bbs) Thanks very much for the info David ! Especially for their tech and BBS lines. This should get me going... Bye ! ___ X SLMR 2.1a X It's only a hobby ... only a hobby ... only a
AL>> Question: Is there a certain device out there that I can AL>> use to find out the number to the line? AL>> Thanks for any response. AL>> Al AL>There is a number you can call which will return a synthesized AL>voice telling you the number of the line. Unfortunately, for the AL>life of me I can't remember what it is. The telephone technicians AL>use it all the time. We used to play around with this in our AL>dorm rooms since there were multiple phone lines running between AL>rooms. It probably wouldn't help for you to post the number, since it appears to be different in each area. For what it's worth, in the New Orleans area the number is 998-877-6655 (easy to remember, what?) * SLMR 2.1 * Ask me anything: if I don't know, I'll make up something.
You must be _incredibly_ bored. Have you considered reading the phone book? --
I have a problem with the battery on my '83 Honda CB650 NightHawk. Every week or so it is dead and I have to recharge it. I ride the bike every day, the battery is new and the charging system was checked thoroughly and it seems fine. My suspicion is that it is draining somewhere. Do you have any idea about what is causing this problem? Please help since my mechanic and me are clueless!...
You are right in supposing that the problem is with the XmNcolormap (XtNcolormap for truly literate beings) not being set. What you want to do is start your application with your new colormap. This can be a chicken and egg sort of problem, however. If you look at the Xt FAQ there is an example that should show how it can be done. If not, let me know and maybe I can improve the example. --pete
Well the European Manta and US GT have entirely different bodies. There is little or no chance that they are the same. The Manta went through several generations as the coupe version of the Ascona and was OK in its time. Not true. The Kadett has been in and out of the US market over the years. The LeMans (old Kadett) is only the latest version. Craig Different Cars. One looks like a sports-car, the other is a coupe.
Anybody use CD Speedway out there? Is it as good as they say? I hate waiting around for my CD to finish loading the next level in WC and the such. How much memory does it eat up?
Any prize like this is going to need to be worded carefully enough that you cannot get it without demonstrating sustained and reliable capability, rather than a lucky one-shot. It can be done.
I have two pairs of headphones I'd like to sell. These are excellent, and both in great condition: Denon AH-D350 JVC HA-D590 Any reasonable offer accepted.
Hmmmmm......what about their kids? cpk -- It's been 80 days. Do you know where your wallet is?
Well, had you been a bit less exuberant in both the tone and substance of your predictions, the responses would probably have been a bit more measured. Be that as it may.... Clemens is always in this form, and Viola isn't really performing beyond what might reasonably have been expected. How do you know that the Sox are responding to them, and not to Al Bumbry, Hobson, or (my most likely suspect) new hitting coach Mike Easler? I certainly am more likely to give Easler credit for Mo Vaughhn's hot start than Clemens or Viola. This was the optimistic scenario, but not unreasonably so. He hasn't shown much power yet, though. How can you tell that Dawson is providing the leadership? Perhaps it's Calderon? Perhaps it's Clemens and Viola? Maybe Hobson is finally showing those people skills he was supposed to have when they hired him. Or maybe it's all a myth. And Dawson has been hitting reasonably well, but not as well as Greenwell, Vaughn, Cooper, or Fletcher. In three games. Why don't we look at this one again in, say, July? A bit better than could reasonably have been expected. But don't forget that Zupcic looked like Wade Boggs lite for about 75 AB's last year. Beware of small sample sizes. Still, if Fletcher hits as well as he did last year he'd be a great improvement over any Sox leadoff hitter from last year. Be aware that his career numbers seem to indicate that he puts up good numbers as long as he doesn't have to make more than 300 AB or so in a year. Ummm...sorry, no. I can buy the "in the field" part, and I think he'll be better at the plate than the 1992 Boggs, but in general Cooper, while he'll be a pretty good hitter, couldn't carry Boggs' jockstrap. With a little luck, he could be the fourth or fifth best 3B in the AL (Martinez, Boggs, Ventura, and Palmer will all be better). See, here is where you make that quick left turn off into the aether. .500 is plausible, third is not unlikely, but phrases like "could run away with the division" are likely to get you a visit from the men in the white coats. It's not really clear that their staff is better than last year. If Russell does well, Darwin doesn't go on the DL, and Hesketh doesn't pitch just barely well enough to avoid losing his spot in the rotation, they could be better. On the other hand, if Hesketh pitches miserably and they're too stupid to move him to the pen and bring up Conroy or somebody, Fossas continues to pitch dismally but they keep giving him innings becasue he's a lefty, and Russell explodes they could be pretty bad. Mike Jones | AIX High-End Development | mjones@donald.aix.kingston.ibm.com
:> God is eternal. [A = B] :> Jesus is God. [C = A] :> Therefore, Jesus is eternal. [C = B] :> This works both logically and mathematically. God is of the set of :> things which are eternal. Jesus is a subset of God. Therefore :> Jesus belongs to the set of things which are eternal. Everything isn't always so logical.... Mercedes is a car. That girl is Mercedes. Therefore, that girl is a car?
[rest deleted...] You were a liberal arts major, weren'tcha? Guess you never saw that photo of the smallest logo in the world-- "IBM" made with noble gas atoms (krypton? xenon? I forget the specifics). Atoms, trees, electrons are all independently observable and verifiable. Morals aren't. See the difference? Tep
Pardon me, a humble atheist, but exactly what is the difference between holding a revealed truth with blind faith as its basis (i.e. regardless of any evidence that you may find to the contrary) as an absolute truth, fully expecting people to believe you and arrogance? They sound like one and the same to me. And nearly every time I meet a christian (or for that matter, any other theist) who tries to convert me, I find this proven over and over again. I see no wisdom whatsoever in your words Unfaithfully yours, Pixie p.s. If you do sincerely believe that a god exists, why do you follow it blindly? Do the words "Question Authority" mean anything to you?
: How hot should the CPU in a 486-33 DX machine be? : Currently it gets so hot that I can not hold a finger on it for more than : 0.5 s. I seem to recall that 486s run somewhere close to the boiling point of water. Anyone have an exact temperature? Anyway, putting a CPU fan/heat sink on it won't hurt and could help. Depends on how paranoid you are...
I'm about to undertake changing the fork seals on my '88 EX500. My Clymer manual says I need the following tools from Kawasaki: 57001-183 (T handle looking thing in illustration) 57001-1057 (Some type of adapter for the end of the T handle) 57001-1091 No illustration of this tool and the manual just refers to it as "the kawasaki tool." 57001-1058 Oil seal and bearing remover. How necessary are these tools? Considering the dealers around here didn't have the Clymer manual, fork seals, and a turn signal assembly in stock I really doubt they have these tools in stock and I'd really like to get this done this week. Any help would be appreciated as always. -- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ..vela.acs.oakland.edu!psgi!todd | '88 RM125 The only bike sold without Todd Doolittle | a red-line. Troy, MI | '88 EX500 DoD #0832 |
Sorry but I forgot this ps. Right now my sight is getting news about two weeks behind so it's kind of necessary (to me) that any responses be sent to me directly. Thanks a lot
[JLE] Q: How many occupying israeli soldiers (terrorists) does it [JLE] take to kill a 5 year old native child? [JLE] A: Four [JLE] Two fasten his arms, one shoots in the face, [JLE] and one writes up a false report. A couple of months ago JLE wrote a terrible C program (it would never have passed compilation). This is one describes JLE the Great. ---- 8< Cut Here and save to jle.c ----------- >8 ---------- #include <stdio.h> #include <signal.h> #define LOSER 0x01 #define CHILDISH 0x01 #define UNHUMORISTIC 0x01 #define VULGAR 0x01 #define MOSSAD_AGENT 0x01 #define J_L_E LOSER | CHILDISH | UNHUMORISTIC | VULGAR | MOSSAD_AGENT static void abort() { printf("Even if she wanted, JLE's mother couldn't abort this program"); printf("\n\n\n\n"); } void main() { signal(SIGINT,abort); printf("This program does not help Jewish-Arab relations :-( \n"); printf("Hit ^C to abort \n"); /* Infinite loop, JLE never comes out of his world */ while(J_L_E); } ---- 8< Cut Here ----------- >8 ---------- To compile this "wonderfool" program on a unix machine try. cc -o jle jle.c or make jle then type jle at your prompt. I tried it, it works great ... Tsiel
Would anyone out there in DoDland be able to help me out in giving me a contact to purchase a pair of military air-borne combat boots (9 1/2 D in size). These boots (so I have read here on rec.moto) are calf height boots that use only velcro for enclosure. I have phoned around and nobody seems to carry such an item. I admit I have not gone into the deepest bowels of NYC yet for the search but I have made some calls to several of the bigger army/navy type stores with no luck. Anyone out there know of a place that does carry such an item as well as does mail order? Any help would be appreciated.
Why "must"? --- " Whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. "
Is this the joke of the month? 1. Your fascist grandparents exterminated 2.5 million Muslim people between 1914 and 1920. 2. Your Nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the European Jewry during WWII. 3. Your criminal cousins have been slaughtering Muslim women, children and elderly people in fascist x-Soviet Armenia and Karabag for the last four years. The entire population of x-Soviet Armenia now, as a result of the Genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people, are Armenians. For nearly one thousand years, the Turkish and Kurdish people lived on their homeland - the last one hundred under the oppressive Soviet and Armenian occupation. The persecutions culminated in 1914: The Armenian Government planned and carried out a Genocide against its Muslim subjects. 2.5 million Turks and Kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their homeland. After one thousand years, Turkish and Kurdish lands were empty of Turks and Kurds. The survivors found a safe heaven in Turkiye. Today, x-Soviet Armenian government rejects the right of Turks and Kurds to return to their Muslim lands occupied by x-Soviet Armenia. Today, x-Soviet Armenian government covers up the genocide perpetrated by its predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against humanity. x-Soviet Armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide against the Muslims by admitting to the crime and making reparations to the Turks and Kurds. Turks and Kurds demand the right to return to their lands, to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland. During the 78th Anniversary, we come once again reiterate the unity of the Muslim People, the timelessness of the Turkish and Kurdish Demands and the desire to pursue the struggle for that restitution - a struggle that unites all Turks and Kurds. Today, we appeal to all Turkish and Kurdish people in the United States and Canada to participate en masse in the Commemorative Events, be they cultural, political or religious. Serdar Argic
--- 51 Arrested for Defying Judge's Order at Abortion Protest Rally The Miami Herald, April 11, 1993 Melbourne, Florida -- [...] Circuit Judge Robert McGregor's order prohibits anti-abortion pickets within 36 feet of the property line of Aware Woman Center for Choice. Even across the street, they may not display pictures of dead fetuses or sing or chant loud enough to be heard by patients inside the clinic. The protesters say the ruling all but wiped out the First Amendment to the Constitution. ``This is our sidewalk,'' said Joe Carroll, 33, a landscaper who marched with his children, Mary Grace, 8, and John, 7. ``I am not a rescuer. I am not a trespasser. It's just that this is my sidewalk. I am not really protesting abortion. We are protesting denial of our rights of assembly, religion, speech. This judge is trashing the Constitution.'' The children's grandmother led them away, sobbing, as Carroll and his father were arrested. Outside the clinic, Eleanor Smeal, president of the Washington, D.C.-based Feminist Majority Foundation, called for the Florida Legislature and Congress to pass laws as tough as the judge's order, which covers only Brevard and Seminole counties. ``This cannot go on,'' she said. ``This is not freedom of speech, this is total psychological warfare with violence. It is ridiculous to have to ask clinics to go court-by-court . . . to get protection.'' [...]
I'd love to see a Shea Stadium gif. -Sean
Well said, Michael! The Catholic traditon has a list of behaviours called the Spiritual Works of Mercy: admonish the sinner instruct the ignorant counsel the doubtful comfort the sorrowful bear wrongs patiently forgive all injury pray for the living and the dead (yes, I know there is some controversy on this and I don't want to argue about it.) These are all things that have a direct application to usenet. People ask questions and express doubts. Some are in need of comfort or prayers. Imagine what would happen to flame wars if we bore wrongs patiently and forgave injuries. I would add that it is probably more appropriate to do any admonishing by private email than publicly.
[reply to zazen@austin.ibm.com (E. H. Welbon)] For many atheists, the lack of belief in gods is secondary to an epistemological consideration: what do we accept as a reliable way of knowing? There are no known valid logical arguments for the existence of gods, nor is there any empirical evidence that they exist. Most philosophers and theologians agree that the idea of a god is one that must be accepted on faith. Faith is belief without a sound logical basis or empirical evidence. It is a reliable way of knowing? There is probably nothing else most people would accept in the absence of any possibility of proof. Even when we agree to take someone elses word "on faith", we just mean that having found this person to be reliable in the past, we judge him likely to be a reliable source now. If we find faith less reliable than logic and empirical evidence everywhere else, why assume it will provide reliable knowledge about gods? The difference between the atheist and the theist is fundamentally then one of whether or not faith is held to be a reliable way of knowing, rather than, as some agnostic posters would have it, whether ones faith is in gods or no gods. The theist believes that faith is an acceptable basis for a belief in gods, even if he rejects faith as reliable at other times, for example in his work as a scientist. The atheist believes that only logic and empirical evidence lead to reliable knowledge. Agnosticism seems to me a less defensible position than theism or atheism, unless one is a sceptic in regards to all other knowledge. Without evidence, why should we believe in gods rather than Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny? I would also like to point out as others have that the atheist doesn't require absolute knowledge of the lack of gods. I don't believe that there is any such thing as absolute knowledge. Atheism is the best and simplest theory to fit the (lack of) facts and so should be held until contrary evidence is found.
Two years old Crate Guitar Amplifier model G80XL. - Handles upto 80 Watts. - Dual Input. - Two channels. - Reverb. - Three band eq. - Distortion.
A word of warning, though: Kryptonite also sells almost useless cable locks under the Kryptonite name. When I obtained my second motorcycle, I migrated one of my Kryptonite U-locks from my bicycle to the new bike. I then went out shopping for a new lock for the bicycle. For about the same money ($20) I had the choice of a Kryptonite cable lock (advantages: lock front and back wheels on bicycle and keep them both, Kryptonite name) or a cheesy no-name U-lock (advantages: real steel). I chose the Kryptonite cable. After less than a week, I took it back in disgust and exchanged it for the cheesy no-name U-lock. First, the Krypto cable I bought is not made by Kryptonite, is not covered by the Kryptonite guarantee, and doesn't even approach Kryptonite standards of quality and quality assurance. It is just some generic made-in-Taiwan cable lock with the Kryptonite name on it. Secondly, the latch engagement mechanism is something of a joke. I don't know if mine was a particularly poor example, but it was often quite frustrating to get the latch to positively engage, and sometimes it would seem to engage, only to fall open when I went to unlock it. Thirdly, the lock has a little plastic door on the keyway which serves the sole purpose of frustrating any attempt to insert the key in the dark. I didn't try it (obviously), but I have my doubts that the lock mechanism would stand up to an "insert screwdriver and TORQUE" attack. Fourthly, the cable was not, in my opinion, of sufficient thickness to deter theft (for my piece of crap bicycle, that is). All cables suffer the weakness that they can be cut a few strands at a time. If you are patient you can cut cables with fingernail clippers. Aviation snips would go through the cable in well under a minute. --
Golgotha the whole process of the fall of man This was precisely my point. From a theological bent, those who lived immediately after the flood, such as Noah, Ham, his son Cush, and his son Nimrod had a much stronger appreciation of Divine wrath. They also had a stronger understanding of the True God. In fact, this immediacy was a cause of hardship for some, so much so that Atlas, who is seen with heavens resting on his shoulders. But this is not merely the physical heavens that he is lifting. It is to put God and the strict spirituality of His law at a distance, and thus he became the "Elevator of the heavens." This "god" made men able to "feel" as if heaven were afar off and "as if either the God of Heaven could not see through the dark cloud, or did not regard with displeasure the breakers of His laws." It is interesting to see that it was that was titled "Emancipator" or "Deliverer" or Phoroneus. It was Nimrod who invaded the patriarchal system and abridged the liberties of mankind, yet was worship for having given many benefits. He was a deliverer all right but not as we think of Christ as a Deliverer. One delivered from a conscious feeling of God's wrath, the other actually performed a delivery from Gods wrath and it is up to us to accept it as true. I don't see the problem. From the time of Adam, those who looked forward to the coming "Anointed One" and put their faith in the fact that it was God who was to do the provision, were accounted as righteous. But up to the Crucifixion, their sins were only covered, not taken away. Therefore, the dispensation of the Church views the accountability of sin the same, but see it as a completed action. Rom's makes it clear that it has always been salvation via faith and nothing else. I understand what you're trying to convey, but I don't think I'd lay hold of it because the scriptures do equate the eternality of the second death with the eternality of, say the Church ruling with Christ. Jn 17 tells us what eternal life is exactly, as you are correct that it is much more than non-cessation of consciousness. It depends upon your def of "lost." The elect were lost only in time as outside of time they had been chosen from the foundation of the world. Existentially we were all born "lost", but the "righteous" were "in Christ" and therefore never *assuredly* lost. Maybe this summer I could find time to put together a paper on it. I simply have to buy more books for myself, and these older books are very expensive. Either that or countless trips to the oriental museum. Couldn't agree with you more. Our understanding, of say eschatology, is clearly clearer than that of, say Isaiah. But that is not what I was referring to. No, I understand it as you have said. This was my point. Ah! This is it. This is the big question. However, I would say, again I think, that the best lie is one that has an appreciable amount of truth to it. Look at Satan's twist of God's Word when he coerced Eve. That is a very interesting study. >The similarity in the midst of great variety of Yes, that is my point. But it is a two edged sword. For some do not want the underlying reality to be revealed. They were not known as "mystery" religions for no reason. There was the public side of them and there was the private side, that was so protected that the initiates to an oath of death if they revealed that private side. That is why it is so hard to bring their teachings to light. The "Mystery of Iniquity" that we find in the Bible, correlates to this I think. The primary object of the mysteries was to introduce privately, little by little, under the seal of secrecy and sanction of oath, what it would not have been safe to openly profess was the true religion. Case in point today might be the Masons. (Just a note, that they too worshipped Osiris in Egypt, who can be traced to Nimrod, the "husband son.") No, I disagree with you here Gerry. I know what you're alluding to in that the church, primarily the RCC, did endorse Aristotelian philosophy into their worldview, but I would disagree with you that it originated in Greece. If you are a student of history, you will come to see that much of what Greece came to expound to the world as their original, was just an adulteration of that which they had taken from conquered countries. The soul is clearly mentioned and discussed at length in the Egyptian religions. As was the unity of God and also the trinity of God. See if you can find Wilkinson's "Egyptians." He really does a number on what the Greeks did to what they "pilfered" from the Egyptians. I'm not knocking Aristotle or Plato or any other Greek thinker. Its just that "there is nothing new under the sun."
Yes. Please describe these "number of ways" in detail. Then explain the any contradictions that may arise. Define "difficult". Explain the laws in America stating that you have to drive on the right- hand side of the road. So if every member of the species was homosexual, this wouldn't be destructive to the survival of the species? The whole "theory" needs to be reexamined...
Wasn't Ron Bloomberg, the former Yankee who got the first base hit by a Designated Hitter, Jewish??
I have the following 45 rpm singles for sale. Most are collectable 7-inch records with picture sleeves. Price does not include postage which is $1.21 for the first record, $1.69 for two, etc. Beach Boys|Barbara Ann (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Beach Boys|Califonia Girls (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$15|45 Beach Boys|Fun, Fun, Fun (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Beach Boys|Little Girl I Once Knew (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Beach Boys|Please Let Me Wonder (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Beach Boys|Rock n Roll to the Rescue (Capitol Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$15|45 Beach Boys|When I Grow Up to Be a Man (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Beatles|Im Happy Just to Dance with You (Capitol Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Doctor & the Medics|Burn (I.R.S. Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 General Public|Too Much or Nothing (I.R.S. Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Go Gos|Our Lips are Sealed (I.R.S. Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Lennon, John|Instant Karma! (We All Shine On) (Apple Picture Sleeve)|$15|$45 Lennon, John|Mind Games (Apple Picture Sleeve)|$10|$45 Madonna|Open Your Heart (Sire Promo)|$5|45 McCartney, Paul|Coming Up (Columbia. Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 McCartney, Paul|Mull of Kintyre (Capitol. Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 McCartney, Paul|Stranglehold (Capitol Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 McCartney, Paul|Wonderful Christmastime (Columbia. Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Mercury, Freddie|I Was Born to Love You (Columbia Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Pink Floyd|Learning to Fly (Columbia Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Queen|Kind of Magic (Capitol Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Ramones|Sheena is a Punk Rocker (Sire Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Rolling Stones|19th Nervous Brakdown (London Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Rolling Stones|Jumpin Jack Flash (London Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Rolling Stones|Mothers Little Helper (London Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Rolling Stones|Paint It, Black (London Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Starr, Ringo|Photograph (Apple Picture Sleeve)|$15|$45 Starr, Ringo|Youre Sixteen (Apple Picture Sleeve)|$15|$45 Talking Heads|Road to Nowhere (Sire Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$5|45 Waters, Roger|Sunset Strip (Columbia Promo/Picture Sleeve)|$10|45 Waters, Roger|Sunset Strip (Columiba Promo)|$5 Waters, Roger|Who Needs Information (Columiba Promo)|%10|45 If you are interested, please contact:
My family has never been particularly religious - singing Christmas carols is about the limit for them. Thus I've never really believed in God and heaven, although I don't actually believe that they don't exist either - I'm sort of undecided, probably like a lot of people I guess. Lately I've been thinking about it all a lot more, and I wondered how religious people can be so convinced that there is a God. I feel as though I want to believe, but I'm not used to believing things without proof - just as I can't believe that there definitely isn't a God, so I can't definitely believe that there is. I wondered if most of you were brought up by religious families and never believed any different. Can anyone help me to understand how your belief and faith in God can be so strong. Another question that frequently crosses my mind is which religion is correct?? How do you choose a religion, and how do you know that the Christian God exists and the Gods of other religions don't?? How do you feel about people who follow other religions?? How about atheists?? And people like me - agnostics I suppose. Do you respect their religion, and accept their beliefs as just as valid as your own?? Isn't there contradiction between the religions?? How can your religion be more valid than any others?? Do you have less respect for someone if they're not religious, or if they follow a different religion than you would if they were Christian?? Also, how much of the scriptures are correct?? Are all events in the bible really supposed to have happened, or are they just supposed to be stories with morals showing a true Christian how to behave?? I generally follow most of the Christian ideas, which I suppose are fairly universal throughout all religions - not killing, stealing, etc, and 'Loving my neighbour' for want of a better expression. The only part I find hard is the actual belief in God. Finally, what is God's attitude to people like me, who don't quite believe in Him, but are generally fairly 'good' people. Surely not believing doesn't make me a worse person?? If not, I find myself wondering why I so strongly want to really believe, and to find a religion. Sorry if I waffled on a bit - I was just writing ideas as they came into my head. I'm sure I probably repeated myself a bit too. Thanks for the help, Paul Simmons
> Hey guys! > I work on many stations and would like this name and current logname > to be in a title of Xterm when it's open and a machine name only > when it's closed. In other words, I want $HOST and $LOGNAME to appear > as a title of opened XTerm and $HOST when XTerm is closed. > How can I do it? [Apologies if I'm answering something already answered in the FAQ. Our news feed has been losing a lot of articles lately - so I haven't seen the FAQ lately to check.] Two ways: 1) When you start the xterm, you can use command line options: -n ICON_NAME To set the icon label -T WINDOW_TITLE To set the window title -title WINDOW_TITLE Equivalent to -T WINDOW_TITLE 2) You can use escape sequences to change things on the fly: The basic escape sequence is: ESC ] <P> ; <SOME_ARBITARY_TEXT> BEL where ESC and BEL are the ASCII ESCAPE and BELL characters, <P> is an ASCII decimal digit -- '2', '1', or '0', depending on whether you are trying to set the window or icon title, or both, and <SOME_ARBITARY_TEXT> is your desired label string. Hence, this command will set the window & icon title: echo "\033]0;YOUR_TITLE_GOES_HERE\007\c" To set just the icon title: echo "\033]1;YOUR_TITLE_GOES_HERE\007\c" To set just the window title: echo "\033]2;YOUR_TITLE_GOES_HERE\007\c" Of course, you may have to fiddle with exact syntax, depending on how the echo command works on your system and what shell you are using (I've shown System-V semantics under Bourne or Korn shells). [Hint for Sun OS users: use /usr/5bin/echo instead of /bin/echo or Csh's built-in echo. Otherwise you'll have to embed literal ESC and BEL characters in the string instead of using convenient octal sequences.] If you want your titlebar updated continously, say to show your current directory, hostname, or somesuch, then you'll have to see if you can coerce your shell into spitting out the appropriate escape sequences when it prompts for commands. Sometimes you can just put the appropriate escape sequence in the prompt string itself, sometimes not ...
Well, it really isn't this cut and dry, but as a Jay fan the thing I feared worst has happened. The Yanks sent down Williams G and are going to start Williams B in CF. I also believe they kept Wickman and Millitello in their rotation, which is much nicer than that Kaminiecki and Mike Witt combo I thought they'd throw out their to the slaughterhouse because of their "experience". Granted, Witt "might" be good, but I think that they used rationale to keep the youngsters up and not given the job to Witt because he was a good pitcher and has experience. The Yanks are showing that they are taking positive strides forwards; the Jays with the loss of Dave Stewart are looking at gigantic holes in their pitching staff. The Orioles should also be there in the end.....
Y'know, if current trends continue, the Florida Marlins will be the first expansion team to go 162-0 and outscore their opponents by 486 runs.
Is the virtual mouse simulation in ol{v}wm 3.x available under X11R5? I've been told I'm setting the right resource, yet it continues not to work. I'm running olvwm3.3 (or olwm 3) on a Sun 3, X11R5 pl 22.
Actually not. Brett himself has actually posted the data previously. What declined from 84 to 89, as I remember it, was _percent increase_in_deficit_growth, i.e. the rate of growth of the deficit (2nd derivative of total deficit with respect of to time) decreased. Brett apparently has numbed himself into thinking that the deficit declined. If you keep spending more than you earn, the deficit keeps growing. If you keep _borrowing_ at a lesser rate than you borrowed previously, the deficit increases. You only decrease deficits when your income exceeds spending and you use the difference to pay off debts. Figgie's book paints the real data, pictorially, in gory detail. Each president, essentially ran up twice as much total debt, in half the time. Reagan/congress was simply awful. Bush/congress was unbelievable. As a really rigorous aside to this thread..... During pledge night the other night on the public channel, there was an "economist" who gave an hour or so presentation. His data was predictive and based largely on population data. I don't know his name, but his arguments were brilliant. He confirmed, with data, what many of us know with common sense -- the boom of the 80's has nothing to do with government policy, particularly "supply side" policy, since taxes do not "cause" economic activities. People cause economic activity. More can be explained by watching population waves roll through the years and create cycles. He has made models and predictions for years well into the middle of next century. It will be neat to see how accurate he is.
I have no doubt that God hears everybody's prayers. However, He does things His way, i.e. things will happen only if it is His will. Now if the question really is "Does God grant everybody's wishes ?" then you'll get a brutal shot of reality similar to when you didn't get that toy you wanted for Christmas. You just cannot expect to get everything you want in this world. --
Chances are that this has been discussed to death already, and if so could someone who has kept the discussion mail me or direct me to an archive site. Basically, I am just wondering if Slick 50 really does all it says that it does. And also, is there any data to support the claim. Thanks for any info.
The O's just lost to the Rangers a few minutes ago I was not too happy about the pitching of Rick Sutcliffe (6 runs in 6 innings, 5 in the 3?) This puts me in remembering the 1990 O's season. After '89 we didn't do much over winter and we wound up in 5th. Now I know that Mussina, McDonald, and Rhodes are better pitching prospects than Ballard and Milacki but are any other Oriole fans scared out there? Admiral Steve C. Liu
Help.... I need to implement COM3 and COM4 on a board that I'm designing and I'm finding it dificult to track down a definition (hardware that is) of COM3 and COM4. I have the IO adresses and the fact that COM3 shares IRQ4 with COM1 and COM4 shares IRQ3 with COM2, except exactly how this IRQ sharing is done is not clear especially if the existing COM1/2 does not allow IRQ sharing. Does the standard??? allow for a different IRQ to be used and if so how. Please answer by email to :- neil@stone.oz.au thanks in advance
My god, hope we don't have to put up with this kind of junk all season! How many home runs by Tartabull? Just 1, right, you must be thinking of Dean Palmer or Juan Gonzalez (both of Texas) who each had 2 homers. I don't know how many to follow, but he was 1 for 4.
I read an article about the benefits of a VLB motherboard. It said that a true VLB board supports bus mastering, otherwise it is just as good as an ISA motherboard. Doesn't all VLB motherboard support bus mastering? I just bought a 486-33 VLB and the tech manual does not explicitly state the words "local bus mastering" but it said it "supports bus master and slave modes". Are these terms synonymous? Thanks.
Graham E. Thomas, grahamt@phantom.gatech.edu sighting. I can top that one. Friday afternoon 4-16-93 I look out my window in Long Beach CA. What do I see but the new Ferrari. I looks like a mix between the ragtop testarossa (sp?) and the batman car. It seems Ferrari had their Annual dinner at the place downstairs. Sweet car.
The chemicals are gone Thanks for all the response
A freeze dried Tootsie Roll (tm). The actual taste sensation was like nothing you will ever willingly experience. The amazing thing was that we ate a second one, and a third and .... I doubt that they actually flew on missions, as I'm certain they did "bad things" to the gastrointestinal tract. Compared to Space Food Sticks, Tang was a gastronomic contribution to mankind. -- Dillon Pyron | The opinions expressed are those of the TI/DSEG Lewisville VAX Support | sender unless otherwise stated. (214)462-3556 (when I'm here) | (214)492-4656 (when I'm home) |God gave us weather so we wouldn't complain pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com |about other things. PADI DM-54909 |
Troglodytism does not necessarily imply a low cultural level. The image-conscious Armenians sorely feel a missing glory in their background. Armenians have never achieved statehood and independence, they have always been subservient, and engaged in undermining schemes against their rulers. They committed genocide against the Muslim populations of Eastern Anatolia and Armenian Dictatorship before and during World War I and fully participated in the extermination of the European Jewry during World War II. Belligerence, genocide, back-stabbing, rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the Armenian history. To obliterate these episodes the Armenians engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims. In this zeal they tried to cover up the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million Turks and Kurds before and during World War I. And, you don't pull nations out of a hat. Source: Walker, Christopher: "Armenia: The Survival of a Nation." New York (St. Martin's Press), 1980. This generally pro-Armenian work contains the following information of direct relevance to the Nazi Holocaust: a) Dro (the butcher), the former Dictator of the Armenian Dictatorship and the architect of the Genocide of 2.5 million Turks and Kurds, the most respected of Nazi Armenian leaders, established an Armenian Provisional Republic in Berlin during World War II; b) this 'provisional government' fully endorsed and espoused the social theories of the Nazis, declared themselves and all Armenians to be members of the Aryan 'Super-Race;' c) they published an Anti-Semitic, racist journal, thereby aligning themselves with the Nazis and their efforts to exterminate the Jews; and, d) they mobilized an Armenian Army of up to 20,000 members which fought side by side with the Wehrmacht. Serdar Argic
Hello, I am looking for someone to help me with the proceedure for remote login, via modem not ethernet, to our new silicon graphics iris machines. I can log in to them only as a vt100 terminal regardless of what I am emulating on my end. I have communication software, kermit, which supports tek 401x and vt102 emulation. The x windows manual lists XTERM as the appropriate command to change the terminal type. When I try it the reponse is 'unable to open window' Thanx in advance Keith Grider
Well, DRL's are already mandatory for motorcycles...
I totally agree. Really, the only people this is going to benefit, are those who live in the cities where the train stops. Who wants to drive to the train station from X (Lubbock for example)? It's probably farther to drive to the train station than it is to the nearest national airport.
And you know why this is? Because you've conveniently _defined_ a theist as someone who can do no wrong, and you've _defined_ people who do wrong as atheists. The above statement is circular (not to mention bigoting), and, as such, has no value.
From: Kayhan Havai # 1026 -------------------------- o Dr. Namaki, deputy minister of health stated that infant mortality (under one year old) in Iran went down from 120 per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at the end of 1371 (last month). o Dr Namaki also stated that before the revolution only 254f children received vaccinations to protect them from various deseases but this figure reached 93at the end of 1371. o Dr. Malekzadeh, the minister of health mentioned that the population growth rate in Iran at the end of 1371 went below 2.7 o During the visit of Mahathir Mohammad, the prime minister of Malaysia, to Iran, agreements for cooperation in the areas of industry, trade, education and tourism were signed. According to one agreement, Iran will be in charge of building Malaysia's natural gas network. ---------------------------------------------------------- - Farzin Mokhtarian
Greetings: Can someone steer me towards sources of information on vehicle data logging systems? In particular, I would like to build/buy (or a little of both) a system that is small enough to fit on a motorcycle and will take input from various sensors (pressure, LVDT's, acceleration, RPM, O2 sensor...), digitize and record it for later analysis. Please email me any info. If I get anything interesting, I'll compile it and get it on the net. Thanks.
Here is the OPI (Offensive Production Index) for all AL players with at least 10 at bats. It is early in the season so there are some very high numbers. Last years leader was Frank Thomas at 0.682. Teams are denoted by an * as the first character of the name and each player has his team preceeding his name. The equations used are found at the end of the post. Comments and suggestions are welcome. Kevin League OPI: 0.448 League BA: 0.268 League SLG: 0.405 League OBA: 0.341 Rank Player OPI BA SLG OBA ----------------------------------------------------- 1 Tor,carter 2.142 0.583 1.417 0.615 2 Cle,baerga 1.432 0.520 1.040 0.538 3 Det,phillips 1.334 0.565 0.609 0.655 4 Oak,mcgwire 1.147 0.364 0.636 0.632 5 Tor,white 1.065 0.500 0.650 0.545 6 Bal,anderson 0.951 0.423 0.692 0.500 7 NYY,owen 0.934 0.500 0.577 0.567 8 Oak,rhenderson 0.911 0.391 0.565 0.533 9 Mil,thon 0.804 0.476 0.619 0.476 10 Oak,browne 0.800 0.476 0.476 0.522 11 Tex,palmer 0.781 0.333 0.875 0.333 11 Det,gibson 0.781 0.312 0.562 0.500 13 Cle,howard 0.755 0.455 0.727 0.455 14 NYY,tartabull 0.742 0.296 0.667 0.424 15 Tex,rodriguez 0.736 0.429 0.500 0.529 15 Tex,gonzalez 0.736 0.261 0.913 0.292 17 Bos,zupcic 0.728 0.400 0.500 0.455 18 Sea,felder 0.723 0.357 0.429 0.471 19 Oak,blankenship 0.722 0.333 0.333 0.524 20 Min,puckett 0.717 0.280 0.720 0.379 21 NYY,oneill 0.710 0.435 0.609 0.458 22 Cle,belle 0.703 0.348 0.696 0.375 23 Sea,buhner 0.699 0.294 0.471 0.478 24 Mil,hamilton 0.682 0.458 0.458 0.500 25 Det,whitaker 0.680 0.312 0.500 0.421 26 Det,fielder 0.666 0.273 0.591 0.407 27 Tor,sprague 0.649 0.300 0.750 0.300 28 Whi,cora 0.646 0.350 0.500 0.458 29 Whi,raines 0.641 0.250 0.750 0.308 30 NYY,kelly 0.625 0.348 0.565 0.375 31 Bos,quintana 0.617 0.455 0.455 0.455 32 Sea,tmartinez 0.612 0.211 0.632 0.348 32 Cal,gonzales 0.612 0.250 0.250 0.478 34 Whi,burks 0.609 0.348 0.565 0.375 35 Cal,snow 0.602 0.368 0.526 0.400 36 Whi,karkovice 0.598 0.167 0.417 0.412 37 *Cleveland 0.595 0.340 0.549 0.377 38 Cle,sorrento 0.594 0.273 0.727 0.273 39 Sea,amaral 0.587 0.368 0.579 0.429 39 Bos,cooper 0.587 0.375 0.458 0.423 41 Min,winfield 0.578 0.292 0.667 0.292 42 Cal,curtis 0.571 0.333 0.381 0.417 43 Bos,mvaughn 0.566 0.316 0.526 0.350 44 Oak,steinbach 0.556 0.333 0.542 0.385 45 *Oakland 0.555 0.298 0.439 0.406 46 NYY,maas 0.547 0.333 0.389 0.429 47 Kan,joyner 0.546 0.300 0.400 0.417 48 Min,knoblauch 0.535 0.304 0.348 0.448 49 Bos,greenwell 0.534 0.261 0.478 0.370 50 Oak,brosius 0.532 0.273 0.545 0.333 51 Tor,olerud 0.530 0.333 0.400 0.412 52 Bal,mercedes 0.529 0.286 0.429 0.412 53 *NYYankees 0.527 0.321 0.468 0.377 54 Bal,hoiles 0.525 0.263 0.526 0.333 55 Mil,kmak 0.523 0.286 0.286 0.412 56 Oak,dhenderson 0.517 0.231 0.462 0.412 57 Cle,lofton 0.515 0.346 0.385 0.370 58 Min,larkin 0.514 0.357 0.500 0.400 59 Bos,dawson 0.504 0.333 0.458 0.360 60 Cle,camartinez 0.503 0.333 0.389 0.400 61 Det,gladden 0.498 0.312 0.500 0.312 62 Cal,polonia 0.494 0.292 0.500 0.320 63 *California 0.487 0.295 0.404 0.364 64 *Detroit 0.484 0.260 0.410 0.357 65 Det,tettleton 0.475 0.211 0.421 0.348 66 Cal,disarcina 0.473 0.304 0.478 0.304 67 Cal,easley 0.472 0.304 0.435 0.333 68 Bal,baines 0.470 0.300 0.400 0.364 69 Tex,franco 0.469 0.300 0.350 0.391 70 Whi,ljohnson 0.464 0.280 0.400 0.333 71 Sea,vizquel 0.463 0.222 0.222 0.417 72 NYY,bwilliams 0.461 0.294 0.471 0.314 73 Mil,gvaughn 0.460 0.222 0.389 0.391 74 Min,hrbek 0.458 0.240 0.360 0.367 75 Bal,cripken 0.451 0.333 0.407 0.379 75 *Seattle 0.451 0.237 0.367 0.361 77 Cal,salmon 0.448 0.267 0.267 0.450 78 Kan,mcreynolds 0.447 0.182 0.500 0.280 79 *Toronto 0.443 0.261 0.430 0.318 79 *Texas 0.443 0.237 0.489 0.289 81 Min,pagliarulo 0.439 0.286 0.429 0.333 82 *WhiteSox 0.432 0.243 0.378 0.336 83 Kan,hiatt 0.431 0.278 0.500 0.316 84 Whi,guillen 0.426 0.263 0.263 0.364 85 Whi,thomas 0.419 0.259 0.333 0.355 86 Kan,mcrae 0.414 0.296 0.333 0.345 87 *Boston 0.411 0.270 0.365 0.336 88 Cle,hill 0.410 0.300 0.500 0.300 89 NYY,mattingly 0.400 0.324 0.353 0.343 90 *Baltimore 0.394 0.251 0.361 0.315 91 Bal,gomez 0.382 0.316 0.316 0.350 91 *Minnesota 0.382 0.237 0.379 0.298 93 Whi,fisk 0.381 0.273 0.545 0.273 94 Cle,jefferson 0.379 0.263 0.316 0.333 95 Oak,neel 0.370 0.188 0.500 0.188 96 Cal,cdavis 0.369 0.211 0.421 0.250 97 Bos,fletcher 0.364 0.217 0.391 0.280 98 *Milwaukee 0.361 0.257 0.293 0.333 99 Det,livingstone 0.360 0.250 0.438 0.294 100 Tor,ralomar 0.354 0.263 0.316 0.333 101 *KansasCity 0.343 0.236 0.327 0.291 102 Oak,bordick 0.339 0.200 0.250 0.304 103 Tex,canseco 0.337 0.190 0.381 0.261 104 Sea,valle 0.336 0.250 0.312 0.294 105 Bal,devereaux 0.329 0.207 0.379 0.233 106 Kan,lind 0.323 0.188 0.438 0.188 107 Mil,surhoff 0.312 0.227 0.273 0.292 107 Kan,brett 0.312 0.259 0.296 0.286 109 Whi,bell 0.310 0.207 0.310 0.258 110 Cle,salomar 0.306 0.200 0.200 0.304 111 Mil,jaha 0.304 0.267 0.267 0.353 111 Det,fryman 0.304 0.185 0.296 0.214 113 NYY,boggs 0.296 0.200 0.233 0.294 114 Tex,bripken 0.290 0.250 0.333 0.308 115 Min,mack 0.289 0.233 0.333 0.258 116 Min,harper 0.288 0.280 0.280 0.280 117 Cle,fermin 0.284 0.200 0.200 0.304 118 Bos,rivera 0.276 0.118 0.176 0.286 119 Mil,spiers 0.275 0.231 0.231 0.286 120 Mil,yount 0.268 0.208 0.208 0.269 121 Tor,schofield 0.265 0.133 0.267 0.235 121 Tex,hulse 0.265 0.154 0.308 0.214 123 Sea,griffey 0.261 0.105 0.263 0.261 124 Sea,obrien 0.259 0.100 0.100 0.308 124 Kan,macfarlane 0.259 0.273 0.273 0.333 126 Oak,sierra 0.256 0.200 0.240 0.231 127 Kan,jose 0.254 0.167 0.167 0.286 128 Bos,hatcher 0.252 0.188 0.188 0.278 129 Sea,blowers 0.251 0.200 0.200 0.273 130 Whi,ventura 0.247 0.167 0.167 0.310 130 Tex,palmeiro 0.247 0.130 0.261 0.167 132 Bal,reynolds 0.227 0.118 0.118 0.250 133 Kan,mayne 0.222 0.231 0.231 0.231 133 Cal,myers 0.222 0.231 0.231 0.231 135 NYY,nokes 0.219 0.150 0.300 0.150 136 Bos,calderon 0.209 0.167 0.167 0.286 137 Bos,pena 0.207 0.267 0.267 0.267 138 Tor,molitor 0.194 0.150 0.200 0.190 139 Det,deer 0.182 0.125 0.167 0.192 140 Det,cuyler 0.179 0.077 0.154 0.143 141 Tor,borders 0.159 0.111 0.167 0.158 142 Whi,grebeck 0.141 0.100 0.100 0.182 143 Bal,gdavis 0.137 0.111 0.148 0.143 144 Tex,dascenzo 0.128 0.091 0.182 0.091 145 Min,leius 0.115 0.083 0.083 0.154 145 Mil,reimer 0.115 0.083 0.083 0.154 147 Tor,djackson 0.114 0.133 0.133 0.133 148 Tex,gill 0.070 0.059 0.059 0.158 149 Kan,gagne 0.042 0.095 0.095 0.095 0.74*1B + 1.28*2B + 1.64*3B + 2.25*HR + 0.53*BB + 0.34*(SB-2*CS) OPI = ---------------------------------------------------------------- AB - H BA = H / AB SLG = (H + 2B + 2*3B + 3*HR) / AB OBA = (H + BB) / (AB + BB)
Disgruntled Volvo drivers. What are they rebelling against?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
I agree with Shai, there are many references to Israeli plans on the Litani river but I have yet to find hard evidence. I had mentioned before that there is a report commissioned by the UN to study the Litani river, it is still in draft form. The Israeli gov't also commissioned a study on the river that was done by Dr. Ben Wolfe. The Litani starts in the Bekaa valley in Lebanon, flows Southward, then West across South Lebanon and discharges into the Mediterranean near the city of Tyre. There are other rivers such as the Hasbani and the Wazzani that start in Lebanese territory than join the Jordan river. The most mentioned plan was one that would divert water from the Litani into these, then the water would flow naturally into the Lac De Houle. BUT there is no evidence of any diversion structure (which would need to be at least 3 km long). The area is mountainous, inaccessible and occupied by Israel so I have not seen any independent reports of the existence of any diversion structure there. Another often mentioned diversion is through deep wells. It is also rumored that Israe has 600 m wells tapping into deep aquifers and drawing water on the Israeli side of the border. If such wells are indeed under use they would be costly to operate (high energy costs) and the Lebanese and Israeli gov't should agree on the distribution of water from shared aquifers as part of an overall peace plan and the bilateral negociations on "regional issues". The fact that we have been at war all this time has led to the current state of affairs where withdrawals from such aquifers is completely unregulated. Basil
Great. This site is a complete shadow of the Signetics BBS 8051 directory. Thanks Brian, -- Mont Pierce
Okay, that's good. I'm typing this from exactly the same setup. (US-UNIX layout keyboard) I did install the sunkbd patch, though. Make sure you're using "ssetroot", which comes with tvtwm. When tvtwm starts up, it nukes the existing root window. Use an "ssetroot" after tvtwm starts up. (You could spawn off a "(sleep 10; ssetroot ...)&") You can also use "VirtualDesktopBackgroundPixmap filename" or just VirtualDesktopBackground if you just want another color besides grey. Did you install the sunkbd patch? It's in the contrib directory on export. All the keys on my keyboard send events properly, except the following: The End, PageUp, PageDown on the 6-key cluster aren't recognized. Even the compose key works. (Though I can't seem to get the composed characters in an xterm to get passed.) Anyone have a fix for the last two? --Dave
Make sure to take the Sutcliff, Fisk, ect. factor into account.
The Illiad contains more than one word. Ergo: it can not be the Word of God. But, if you will humbly agree that it is the WORDS of God, I will conceed. :-D --- "One thing that relates is among Navy men that get tatoos that say "Mom", because of the love of their mom. It makes for more virile men." Bobby Mozumder ( snm6394@ultb.isc.rit.edu ) April 4, 1993
I would be scared of trying to fit the one piece. When I got my two piece, I got the jacket in 42 and the pants in 40 (just due to my manly-man of an athletic build, kind of thing) No laughing, please. Seriously, I'm not trim and the 42 pants would have been way too big. Also, I don't think the 1 piece does provide better protection. If I'm wrong, I'll be swiftly if ever so gently correct by the net.pansies.of.knowledge (as they like to call themselves). Regards Jack Waters II DoD#1919
CB> DON'T BE SO STUPID AS TO LEAVE YOUR HELMET ON THE SEAT WHERE IT CAN CB> FALL DOWN AND GO BOOM! Ryan> Another good place for your helmet is your mirror (!). I kid you not. This is very bad advice. Helmets have two major impact absorbing layers... a hard outer shell and a closed-cell foam impact layer. Most helmets lose their protective properties because the inner liner compacts over time, long before the outer shell is damaged or delaminates from age. Dr. Hurt tested helmets for many years following his landmark study and has estimated that a helmet can lose up to 80% of it's effectiveness from inner liner compression. I have a video he produced that discusses this phenomenon in detail. Puncture compression of the type caused by mirrors, sissy bars, and other relatively sharp objects is the worst offender. Even when the comfort liner is unaffected, dents and holes in the foam can seriously degrade the effectiveness of a helmet. If you are in the habit of "parking your lid" on the mirrors, I suggest you look under the comfort liner at the condition of the foam. If it is significantly damaged (or missing :-), replace the helmet.
Why? Do you suppose he's immune to the ravages of time? He's 37. In a few years he'll be 40. He doesn't get to as many grounders as he used to, and will get to fewer still as his legs go, as they do on every human so far. Remember: Willie Mays was a defensive liability at he end of his career too. Ditto Mickey Mantle. Ditto just about everyone else who played into their late 30's.
==== If that were true, I'd go for it.. I have a few friends who we could pool our resources and do it.. Maybe make it a prize kind of liek the "Solar Car Race" in Australia.. Anybody game for a contest!
In mentioning some nonsense about psychology :) and atheism, Bob Muir asks the following question. I answer in the affirmative. Now this answer might sound a little intellectually dishonest to Bob, but I think I have been accused before of that heinous crime and am man enough to take it. !-) What thinking person has not at one time or other been accused of it? Is it politically correct for Christians to be the only besieged group permitted the luxury of arrogance? Now I have a question for Bob. Why in the world would any self-respecting atheist want to subscribe to a Christian news group? I have a difficult enough time keeping up with it, and I think I know something about the subject. Bob reminds me of my roommate. In order to disbelieve atheism, he says he will need to be proven wrong about it. Well, I don't even waste my time trying. I tell him that he'll just have to take my word for it. In response, he tells me he will say an "atheist's prayer" for me. Good luck, Bob. And, best regards.
That's not true. I gave you two examples. One was the rather pevasive anti-semitism in German Christianity well before Hitler arrived. The other was the system of social ranks that were used in Imperail Germany and Austria to distinguish Jews from the rest of the population. Neither of these were very terrible in themselves, but both helped to set a psychology in which the gradual disenfranchisement of Jews was made easier.
But, you wouldn't know what red *was*, and you certainly couldn't judge it subjectively. And, objectivity is not applicable, since you are wanting to discuss the merits of red.
Of your spelling, eh? Dr Zippy.
: Logic alert - argument from incredulity. Just because it is hard for you : to believe this doesn't mean that it isn't true. Liars can be very pursuasive : just look at Koresh that you yourself cite. This is whole basis of a great many here rejecting the Christian account of things. In the words of St. Madalyn Murrey-O'Hair, "Face it folks, it's just silly ...". Why is it okay to disbelieve because of your incredulity if you admit that it's a fallacy?
I am new to X programming, so please bear with me.... I am trying to have a dialog box that returns it's value upon the user entering a new value and hitting the <return> key. (don't want to have a "done" button). The piece of code below will work if I exclude the XtNvalue argument but will not work as is. Can someone shed some light on this or suggest a better way? Ultimately I will have several areas active at the same time to allow a user to modify parameters in the program. Thanks for your help, Karen Rogers Dupont rogerskm@pluto.es.dupont.com ######### Code starts here ################ void doit() { printf("Entered the doit function\n"); exit(); } main(argc, argv) int argc; char **argv; { Widget toplevel; Widget outer; XtAppContext app_con; Widget samples; Arg args[3]; static XtActionsRec key_actions[]= { {"doit", doit}, }; toplevel = XtVaAppInitialize(&app_con, "TEST", NULL, 0, &argc, argv, NULL, NULL); outer = XtCreateManagedWidget( "paned", panedWidgetClass, toplevel, NULL, ZERO); XtAppAddActions(app_con, key_actions, XtNumber(key_actions)); XtSetArg(args[0], XtNlabel, "Enter value"); XtSetArg(args[1], XtNvalue, "0"); samples = XtCreateManagedWidget("samples", dialogWidgetClass,outer,args,2); XtOverrideTranslations(samples, XtParseTranslationTable("<Key>Return: doit()"));
Their phone number is 1-800-377-9777. The last catalog shows three Oaks jerseys: 36 Home, 42 Home, 39 Home - they're each $165.00. All their merchandise is handmade and is an authentic replica. I own a couple - and they are excellent. They also have wool caps and jackets. You should call to get on their mailing list even if you can't afford their prices.
NPR's Morning Edition aired a report this morning (4/19) on Hispanic/Latin American players in MLB and how they have many of the same problems faced by black/negro/African American players when they first entered the league. However, although baseball has adjusted to the presence of black players, many Hispanic players still labor under the stereotype of being "fireballs, hot blooded, flashy". The report also emphasised that despite the rantings (my word) of Jessie Jackson about baseballs discrimination against black players in its upper echelons, baseball has actually done much better by black players than Hispanic players. Another interesting point was the language barrier problem. The reporter elaborated on an interview with Ruben Sierra which he gave in Spanish to a Spanish speaking newspaper reporter with the fact that there are maybe 2 major baseball writers that speak Spanish, despite the fact that Spanish is one of (if not the) easiest languages to learn, so easy that the author Cormac McCarthy learned Spanish at age 50 in order to research his book, _All The Pretty Horses_. Yet, few MLB organizations employ Spanish speaking personel, one of the exceptions being the Oakland A's. Another point: Nearly 90% of Latin American players have some African blood. Yet, most report that they'd never really felt black until playing ball in the US. Ironically enough, it is the early presence of Latin American baseball players in the Major Leagues that support the idea that baseball was integrated before the arrival of Jackie Robinson, as many "light black" or "brown", Latin Americans were incorporated into baseball. /S
If the Papacy is infallible, and this is a matter of faith, then the Pope cannot "be wrong!" If, on the other hand, this is not a matter of faith, but a matter of Church law, then we should still obey as the Pope is the legal head of the church. In other words, given the doctrine of infallibility, we have no choice but to obey. This is a primary problem in the Church today. What you are saying is more or less heresy. You might call it "infallibilism". It's the idea that the Pope is always right in everything he says or does. This is virtually all over the place, especially in this country. The Pope is only infallible under certain very specific and well-defined conditions. When these conditions are not met, he can make mistakes. He can make *big* mistakes. A couple historical examples come to mind. Bishop Robert Grosseteste was perhaps the greatest product of the English Catholic Church. At one point during his career, the reigning Pope decided to install one of his nephews in an English see. Bishop Grosseteste said that this would happen over his dead body (though maybe not in so many words; you have to treat Popes with respect, even when they are wrong). The problem was that this nephew would just collect the income of the see, and probably never set foot there. This would deprive the people of the see of a shepherd. Bishop Grosseteste was quite right in what he did! Another example is that of Pope John XXII, a Pope of the Middle Ages. He decided that souls that were saved did not enjoy the Beatific Vision until the Last Judgement. He decided that this should be a defined doctrine of the Church. Though he didn't quite get around to defining it. Now there's no way this is compatible with Catholic doctrine. The Pope's doctrine was criticised by many in the Church. He went so far as to put a number of his opponents in jail, even. In the end, he had to admit his mistake. Shortly before he died, he recanted. His successor made the exact *opposite* idea a dogma of the Church. If you consult any of the great Catholic theologians who treat of such subjects, such as St. Robert Bellarmine (a Doctor of the Church), you will find detailed discussions of whether the Pope can personally fall into heresy or schism.
I had posted this before, but the buyer fell through, so here goes again....
Up to this point, I really thought this had been written by a pro-SDCN, anti-mediot poster blessed with a certain talent for sarcasm and biting remarks. Somebody like me, for instance. The lurid overstatements were obviously intended to humiliate the original poster. But then the scales were lifted from my eyes. Looks like Robert is really being serious. Oh, well. I compare the performance of the 1992 Phillies with the 1987 edition, which had outstanding run producers at every position except SS, yet finished at a frustrating sub-.500 level. The 1987 folks didn't ever amount to anything, and neither will the 1992 squad, IMHO. Any other parallels with previous years' teams for this year's editions (in the style of 1993 Braves = 1971 Orioles)? -- Greg "Mockingbird" Franklin "Interracial mixing encompasses a lot lot more f67709907@ccit.arizona.edu than mingling between G7 races." -- robohen
XC units are often pre-production sample devices. Those are normally distributed for evaluation as freebies and are not guaranteed to meet every spec. Yep, that's for sure...that's one thing I like most about Motorola.
You might want to re-think your attitude about the Holocaust after reading Deuteronomy chapter 28.
Name your price, cap colours & quantity available. cheers Mike
Sorry, I don't follow your reasoning. You are proposing to punish people *before* they commit a crime? What justification do you have for this?
This is a classic example of excessive faith in reason. The fact that we have trouble talking about something doesn't imply that it is impossible; it simply implies that it is hard to talk about. There is a very good chance that God *can* flibble glop ork groink. Charlie Wingate can flibble glop ork groink, and he isn't even God.
Hi, all hardware netters, I've seen recently on some magazines advertising a ?NEW? Trident graphics card call 8900CL. The ad said it's new and *faster*. How is it compare to Tseng ET4000? BTW, which is the fastest *non-accelerated* SVGA on the market? Any info or benchmark are welcome. Thanks in advance. regards,
Sorry, Bill, I had to clear this up. There may be good evolutionary arguments against homosexuality, but these don't qualify. [deletions] [deletions] Oh? I guess all those social insects (e.g. ants, bees, etc.) which have one breeding queen and a whole passel of sterile workers are on the way out, huh? I refer you to the bonobos, a species of primate as closeley related to humans as chimpanzees (that is, very closely). They have sex all the time, homosexual as well as heterosexual. When the group finds food, they have sex. Before the go to sleep at night, they have sex. After they escape from or fight off prdators, they have sex. Sex serves a very important social function above and beyond reproduction in this species. A species closely related to humans. There is some indication that sex performs a social function in humans, as well, but even if not, this shows that such a function is not *impossible*. Sincerely, Ray Ingles ingles@engin.umich.edu
OK, I should have said "former" enemy. I was being sarcastic about what interventionists want to do. Could we back him without forcing others to back him at the point of a gun? Have you considered a non-interventionist policy? If market reform does happen, Russia will certainly get *private* capital at *private* risk to help their economy. They will even have incentive to do so for the same reason. If they don't reform, then our government will probably consider them enemies anyway and rather spend money to hurt rather than help them. Then their's the ideological point. We want to "win" Russia over to our type of government -- a type where the rulers can rule without limit over everyone's finances? If a $1.6 billion gift was that important to our well being, couldn't it be raised voluntarilly? People already give over $100 billion a year to charity. It seems instead of gridlock on any scale, we have aid to Russia, expensive space programs, national charity that doesn't help the poor, and probably, studies of drunken goldfish. I think *limited* government is more key than how democratic it is. That was an opinion, and libertarians are very big on free speech. If you are pretty libertarian except on this one issue then you should be VERY libertarian. Consider it a compromise. How much money would your fellow Russia-aiders have to give to Russia if those you oppose weren't using the same government machine to steal money from you and your group for causes you don't support? People have been saying that for hundreds of years. All the more reason to depend on the free market which can more efficiently process information, than to depend on rulers for decisions on complex issues. Roger Collins
Its time for a little house cleaning after my PC upgrade. I have the following for sale: Leading Technology PC partner (286) sytsem. includes 80286 12mhz intel cpu 85Mb IDE drive (brand new - canabalized from new system) 3.5 and 5.24 floppies 1 Meg ram vga congroller kb 5.0 dos on hard drive need to get $300 for system AT style kb - $20 Logitech serial trackman with latest drivers $45 Amiga 500 with 2.0 roms installed and 1Mb video ram and 4Mb addon ram 501 clone (512K ram and clock) Roctec addon disk IDE disk controller includes SCSI option Quantum 105mb SCSI drive with lots of software 4mb ( 4 x 1mb simm) installed in roctec Amiga DOS 2.04 ICD Flicker Fixer II Asking $500 for system, I will part out the amiga, make an offer! amiga Software Cando - $25 Textcraft Plus - $5 tetris & welltris - $5 for both Sword of Sodam - $5 Qix - $5 Carmen Sandiego - $5 Crossword Construction Kit - $10 Canadian Prototype Replicas CD rom Fast File System - $30 Hypermedia CD rom containing fred fish disks 1-480 includes registration card, low cost upgrades. $20 Amiga hardware Reference Man - $5 Amiga to vga monitor cable - $5 two joysticks - $5 each Prices DO NOT include shipping. Contact Rich Garrett Email - richg@sequent.com HOME (503) 591-5466 WORK (503) 578-3822
Well, you really can't dig a hole with a stock Shovel; you at least need some performance mods like stroking and cams. Besides, it's REAL bad on the rear tire.
Again I find myself wanting to respond to a posting and having neither the time nor the proper materials with me (you would think I would learn my lesson by now--but I'm trying to finish writing my Thesis and don't have tons of time. Anyway...) The basis for our (the catholic church's) belief in the assumption of Mary, body and soul, into heaven is that, to put it simply, the apostles and all the early generation Christians believed it. In fact, throughout their ministry the apostles kept in close contact with Mary, and 11 of the 12 were present when she died. Only Thomas was missing--when he arrived several days later, he asked to be shown her body, and moved with pity, Peter and several of the other apostles brought him to her tomb. When they arrived the seal was still unbroken. They broke the seal, entered, and the body was missing. There was no sign that anyone had entered, forcibly or otherwise, and everything else was laid out exactly as it had been left. The apostles present all believed that Mary was assumed into heaven--and the apostles TAUGHT this in their preaching (of course, this does not appear in any of the texts currently considered part of the bible, but it does appear in other writings left behind by several of them.) Basicaly, as an apostolic church (ie. founded by the apostles), we believe that the teachings of the apostles, whether written down in the bible or written down in other sources, is true, providing that the authenticity of those other sources can be confirmed. At least in the case of the assumption of Mary, the authenticity is quite clear.
I have two questions (well probably more...) about how Expose & Configure events are handled. I have an appl. which uses 1 window to draw in. Since I give the user the capability of scaling and zooming as well as allowing the window to be resized, I made a translation table for the Expose & Configure events. The Expose event calls my redraw method while the Configure event calls my rescale method. The rescale method invokes a "fake" Expose event (actually just calls the redraw w/ an appropriate Expose struct) to draw the data. Quest 1. When the appl. is compiled/linked w/ R4 (running in either R4 or R5 env.) I get multiple (>4) redraws when the window gets uncovered or the size is changed. I assume I'm getting cascading events. Is that right? Any suggestions as to how to handle/trap events in a better way? Quest 2. When the appl. is compiled/linked w/ R5 I get no Expose events whatsoever. Do events and/or translation tables act differently in R5? Thanks in advance Steve -- ==========================================================================================
^^^^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ Can we assume that this guy studied advertising and not chemistry? Granted it probably a great advertising gimic, but it doesn't sound at all practical.
}In heavy traffic I slow down a bit, mostly so I have more buffer zone in }front to balance the minimal buffer behind, but I also often find that the }jerk behind will notice traffic moving faster in other lanes, switch }into one of them, and pass me - which is fine, because then I can keep a }better eye on the jerk from behind, while looking ahead, rather than }from in front, while splitting my attention between ahead and the mirrors. This is pretty damned complicated. I just make a "back off" motion with my hand/arm, and the second or third time even the most braindead cager backs off. If they don't back off then, I find a way to get the hell out of there -- the cager is either psychotic, drunk, or just a complete asshole. In any case, I don't want to be anywhere near, and especially not in front.
I ONLY Just prevented myself from diving in on this one.....
: Also watch your mirrors any time you are turning. I just had another close : one last night. Preparing for a right turn on a two lane road. Right turn : signals on, starting the turn, and this lady behind me hits the throttle and : starts to pass me on the RIGHT. This has happened to me twice before. the I have had this happen to me often enough that I always look for it. On my ride to work in the morning I come to a stop light where there are 3 lanes in my direction. One for left turns, one for straight through, and one for right turns. All clearly marked. Plus there is a clearly marked bicycle lane. I ride into the right turn lane with my signal on and stop at the stop line. Looking left to see if I can make a "right turn on red" and when I start to move discovered that some idiot has pulled into the bike lane and is trying to pass me on the right. GRRR. I always do a head check on bike lanes. Not always for bicycles. . .
While playing around with my Gateway 2000 local-bus machine last night, it became apparent that Windows 3.1 didn't give the option for 32-bit access for virtual memory. I am using a permanent swap file, and the disk drive is on the local bus interface. Is this expected, or should I be investigating further why no 32-bit option appears? Thanks for any help. --
Archive-name: rec-autos/part1 [most recent changes, 15 March 1993: addition of alt.autos.karting -- rpw] === Welcome to Rec.Autos.* === This article is sent out automatically each month, and contains a general description of the purpose of each of the automotive newsgroups, and some suggested guidelines for discussions. The keywords `Monthly Posting' will always appear to make killing this article easy for users of newsreaders with kill facilities. This article is posted to all autos groups, but followups are directed only to rec.autos. If you don't understand what this means, ask your system administrator for help, or at least for copies of the newuser documentation. Failing that, please subscribe to the newsgroup news.announce.newusers and read the documentation provided there. Introduction to the Rec.Autos newsgroup hierarchy: rec.autos.tech is intended for technical discussions of automobiles, their design, construction, diagnosis, and service. Other discussions are largely inappropriate, especially For Sale ads. rec.autos.sport is intended for discussion of legal, organized competition involving automobiles. Technical discussions are appropriate insofar as they apply to competition vehicles. Discussion from either of two viewpoints, spectator and participant, is encouraged. Arguments about sports cars are largely inappropriate, as are most other discussions. For Sale ads are inappropriate unless they are for competition vehicles and/or equipment. Discussions of illegal events are marginal; one should probably avoid advocating breaking the law. (remember, the FBI reads Usenet!) rec.autos.driving is intended for discussions related to the driving of automobiles. Also, if you must discuss 55 vs. 65, or radar detectors, or <insert your pet driving peeve> boneheads, do it here. rec.autos.vw is intended for discussion of issues related to the use and ownership of automobiles manufactured by Volkswagen (this includes VWs, Audis, Seats, etc.) It was created on the grounds that the info-vw mailing list was very successful. It should not be presumed from the existence of this group that it is appropriate to create many groups to cover many different marques; groups specific to individual marques should only be created on demonstration of sufficient interest, via some avenue such as a mailing list. rec.audio.car is not properly part of the rec.autos.* hierarchy. it is, however, the correct place for discussion of automotive audio equipment, and so is mentioned here. rec.autos.antique is intended for the discussion of older cars (usually more than 25 years old, although this is not a hard-and-fast rule.) alt.hotrod is not part of the hierarchy, but also of potential interest to the rec.autos reader. it is gatewayed to the moderated hotrod mailing list, and is for serious discussion of modifying and developing performance vehicles. alt.autos.rod-n-custom also not part of the `official' hierarchy; devoted to that peculiar American hobby of customizing older cars. alt.autos.karting for the discussion of the popular motorsport and hobby, karting. rec.autos is intended to capture discussion on all other automotive topics. Crossposting: Crossposting occurs when more than one newsgroup name is included on the Newsgroups: line in the article header; such articles will appear in all of the newsgroups listed. Crossposting is one of the most misunderstood and misused facilities on Usenet. You should only post to a group because you feel an article is appropriate; you should NEVER crosspost just to reach a particular audience. This distinction is subtle, but important. Radar Detector articles, for example, are more-or-less appropriate in rec.autos. They are almost never appropriate in sci.electronics or rec.ham-radio, and the fact that you might want to reach the audience in sci.electronics or rec.ham-radio is NOT adequate justification for posting to either group. Crossposting between any or all of the rec.autos.* groups is usually inappropriate; if you find yourself doing so, consider whether or not it is truly advisable, before sending your article. Consider setting Followup-To: to point to only one newsgroup if you feel you must crosspost. Crossposting between rec.autos.* and misc.consumers is chancy at best; in particular flame wars over the speed limit in the US and/or the use of radar detectors should NEVER be crossposted between any of these groups. Most readers of sci.electronics and rec.radio.* couldn't care less about the police radar and radar detector arguments that go on endlessly in rec.autos. It is an excellent idea to check the Newsgroups: and Followup-to: lines of articles before posting a followup. In particular, be wary of posting to misc.test, rec.arts.startrek.*, or talk.bizarre, or any combination of these three. The life you save may be your own. Distribution: There is a field in the header of any news article which allows you to (partially) control where the article goes; it is called the Distribution field. It may be very useful for many reasons; it should also serve as a reminder that news is a very large and widespread system. The distribution of rec.autos.* is fairly extensive. As of this writing, the Automotive newsgroups are known to reach most of Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and some locations in Japan. With this in mind, I offer the following hints about use of the Distribution: field in your article headers, and on article content. 1) Please take care not to send for-sale ads about clapped out Ford Mavericks in New Jersey to France or California; i doubt that anyone in either place will care, except for my girlfriend, who for some strange reason likes Mavericks (but only 4-door Mavericks, at that.) 2) When posting technical questions, please include the market for which your car was manufactured. For example, there are a number of differences between a European-market Ford Escort and a US-market Escort. Likewise, all 1750cc and early 2000cc Alfa Romeos reached the US with Spica Fuel injection; European market cars usually got carbs (often Webers). These differences can be important to your readers; make your situation clear. Failure to do so can lead to pointless flame wars and a significant spread of misinformation. 3) Be careful about your capacities and specifications when posting; in the US we get a mix of Metric and English system values, whereas Europe is almost entirely on the Metric system. A future edition of this monthly posting will contain a list of commonly-used abbreviations that may not be known in some places that rec.autos reaches; this cuts both ways so let us not be parochial about it. 4) Use the Distribution: field to limit where your article goes, when possible. Within North America, the values na (north america), can (canada), and usa may be used. in addition, the two-letter state abbreviations of the US are supported in some cases; e.g. if i wanted to send an article only to New York and New Jersey, i could put "ny,nj" in a Distribution field. note that multiple, comma-separated values are legal. these distribution fields vary widely, however, so you should check with your local sysadmin to find out what is likely to be supported in your area. The Dangers of Overgeneralization: To amplify a warning from the distribution section of this article: Be wary of making foolish assumptions about all cars, tires, etc. What is true for a 1973 Buick with a 455cid engine may be quite utterly wrong for a 1976 Honda with a 1200cc engine. Headlight laws in Sweden are decidedly different from those in Idaho. The Need for Adequate Specification: When you ask a question, please give a reasonable amount of information; e.g., if you have a question about your Honda, please specify year, model, engine size, etc. Otherwise, most answers to your question may be quite useless. Concerning Lemons: At one time or another, every auto manufacturer has manufactured a lemon or two; even Honda admits to this. Please don't waste everyone's time by announcing to the world that your `brand x' automobile is terrible, so all `brand x' automobiles are terrible, so no one should ever buy a car from the `brand x' company. Such articles are worse than useless, because they cause substantial wasted bandwidth while carrying little or no useful information. Concerning Flames: As much as we might wish it, a flame-free newsgroup is something that most likely will never occur. Here are some guidelines for flames and how to deal with them (a list of flame-prone topics follows in the next section of this posting): If you post something truly obnoxious and inflammatory, don't imagine for a minute that including the words `No Flames' will work. It won't, and you'll get exactly what you deserve. If you're going to flame, you're more likely to get away with it if you can cite a fact or maybe a well-known reference. No one is likely to believe bald, unsupported assertions. Be careful about who you choose to insult. Consider not insulting anyone. Asking the Question: It is a bad idea to post a question and end it with a phrase like `Please send email, I don't read this group'. It is a much better idea to end the question with `Please send email, if there is sufficient interest I'll summarize the results in a later posting. I may miss posted responses to this request'. Answering the Question: If someone wants to hop up their Yugo, don't tell them to get a Mustang. Either be silent, or give them useful advice. If someone wants advice on defending a speeding ticket, don't tell them to obey the law next time -- it's offensive, presumes guilt which is not proven, and doesn't directly address the original question. In general, don't post in order to see your words in print, and don't post in order to enjoy feeling smug and self-righteous. Stale and/or Inflammatory Topics: Certain topics are considered stale by `old timers'; while discussion of them is certainly ok, and new, factual information is welcome, ravings about them are extremely tiresome, and may get the person who posts them ignored altogether. Some topics are naturally inflammatory; it is difficult if not impossible to have meaningful discussion of them. Some of these topics include the following: 1) the 55mph speed limit in the US: Pro and Con 2) discussions about the morality and legality of the sale and usage of radar detectors. 3) discussions over which radar detector is best. 4) discussions over what is a sports car (this is one reason why rec.autos.sport is not a `sports car' group -- everyone would argue about what constitutes a `sports car'.) 5) disputes over whether or not US Federal law protects the driver's right to own and operate a radar detector 6) `Buy American' discussions 7) `clever' bumper stickers and personalized license plates 8) <insert nationality here> cars are terrible 9) What kind of car did Maxwell Smart drive? [when I have a complete, accurate answer it will be added to the commonly-asked questions article which is also posted monthly. Until then, please don't waste bandwidth on this topic. -- rpw] Please direct comments and suggestions about this article to: welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
Atan): Well, Napoleon. It is your kind of people who are preventing peace on the world. First of all, you didn't answer the question I asked at the end of my posting. And then you told me some bullshit throughout your posting which had no positive point about the issue, filled with hatred, and filled with emotions. Why am I doing this? Forget it, I don't think you are worth it to discuss the issue. -- Tankut Atan tankut@iastate.edu
^^^ How long does he have to take in fixing it? Does he have to use new parts when he repairs it or can he substitute used parts without your knowledge? Can he charge you for repairs that should be under warranty but he claims are due to improper maintenance on your part? When it comes to local dealers: - Have fun getting consistently good support. Most of their "techs" are re-treaded salesmen, not trained technicians, with a high turnover rate. - Have fun getting in-warranty work done quickly and courteously. - Have fun getting out-of-warranty work done cheaply, or even done period, unless you are on a paid service contract. Having been both a service technician, and a service manager, at a ComputerLand franchise and another retail computer place, I know what I'm talking about. I also know the "local service" scam that retail computer dealers like to push when they're selling. It's that same old song that car dealers having been singing for years -- "Buy from me and you'll get good service. We always treat our customers right! Buy from my competition and you'll be sorry if you need service." Experienced mail order buyers know that there are some mail order companies that give excellent service, including overnight replacement parts, on-site calls, etc. There are probably some local dealers that can give you good service, too. But if you think all local dealers give consistenly good service, you are wrong. I have many anectdotes to prove my point, but I'm sure there are others on the net can do a better job than I can.
Pardon me? "Greece Government Rail-Roads Two Turkish Ethnic Deputies" While World Human Rights Organizations Scream, Greeks Persistently Work on Removing the Parliamentary Immunity of Dr. Sadik Ahmet and Mr. Ahmet Faikoglu. Dr. Sadik Ahmet, Turkish Ethnic Member of Greek Parliament, Visits US Washington DC, July 7- Doctor Sadik Ahmet, one of the two ethnic Turkish members of the Greek parliament visited US on june 24 through July 5th and held meetings with human rights organizations and high-level US officials in Washington DC and New York. At his press conference at the National Press Club in Washington DC, Sadik Ahmet explained the plight of ethnic Turks in Greece and stated six demands from Greek government. Ahmet said "our only hope in Greece is the pressure generated from Western capitals for insisting that Greece respects the human rights. What we are having done to ethnic Turks in Greece is exactly the same as South African Apartheid." He added: "What we are facing is pure Greek hatred and racial discrimination." Spelling out the demands of the Turkish ethnic community in Greece he said "We want the restoration of Greek citizenship of 544 ethnic Turks. Their citizenship was revoked by using the excuse that this people have stayed out of Greece for too long. They are Greek citizens and are residing in Greece, even one of them is actively serving in the Greek army. Besides, other non-Turkish citizens of Greece are not subject to this kind of interpretation at an extent that many of Greek-Americans have Greek citizenship and they permanently live in the United States." "We want guarantee for Turkish minority's equal rights. We want Greek government to accept the Turkish minority and grant us our civil rights. Our people are waiting since 25 years to get driving licenses. The Greek government is not granting building permits to Turks for renovating our buildings or building new ones. If your name is Turkish, you are not hired to the government offices." "Furthermore, we want Greek government to give us equal opportunity in business. They do not grant licenses so we can participate in the economic life of Greece. In my case, they denied me a medical license necessary for practicing surgery in Greek hospitals despite the fact that I have finished a Greek medical school and followed all the necessary steps in my career." "We want freedom of expression for ethnic Turks. We are not allowed to call ourselves Turks. I myself have been subject of a number of law suits and even have been imprisoned just because I called myself a Turk." "We also want Greek government to provide freedom of religion." In separate interview with The Turkish Times, Dr. Sadik Ahmet stated that the conditions of ethnic Turks are deplorable and in the eyes of Greek laws, ethnic Greeks are more equal than ethnic Turks. As an example, he said there are about 20,000 telephone subscribers in Selanik (Thessaloniki) and only about 800 of them are Turks. That is not because Turks do not want to have telephone services at their home and businesses. He said that Greek government changed the election law just to keep him out of the parliament as an independent representative and they stated this fact openly to him. While there is no minimum qualification requirement for parties in terms of receiving at least 3% of the votes, they imposed this requirement for the independent parties, including the Turkish candidates. Ahmet was born in a small village at Gumulcine (Komotini), Greece 1947. He earned his medical degree at University of Thessaloniki in 1974. he served in the Greek military as an infantryman. In 1985 he got involved with community affairs for the first time by collecting 15,000 signatures to protest the unjust implementation of laws against ethnic Turks. In 1986, he was arrested by the police for collecting signatures. Serdar Argic
The above is probably not the most representative paragraph, but I thought I'd hop on, anyway... What strikes me as self-contradicting in the fable of Lucifer's fall - which, by the way, I seem to recall to be more speculation than based on biblical text, but my ex RCism may be showing - is that, as Benedikt pointed out, Lucifer had perfect nature, yet he had the free will to "choose" evil. But where did that choice come from? We know from Genesis that Eve was offered an opportunity to sin by a tempter which many assume was Satan, but how did Lucifer discover, invent, create, call the action what you will, something that God had not given origin to? Also, where in the Bible is there mention of Lucifer's free will? We make a big fuss about mankind having free will, but it strikes me as being an after-the-fact rationalisation, and in fact, like salvation, not one that all Christians believe in identically. At least in my mind, salvation and free will are very tightly coupled, but then my theology was Roman Catholic... Still, how do theologian explain Lucifer's fall? If Lucifer had perfect nature (did man?) how could he fall? How could he execute an act that (a) contradicted his nature and (b) in effect cause evil to exist for the first time?
That's a twin-cam, right? There's a steel guard right next to the sprocket to keep a broken chain from punching a hole in the engine cases, and it's needed. There's probably not enough room to fit a bigger sprocket. I'd be inclined to take two teeth off the rear for a 5% ratio change rather than adding one to the front for about 7%. If you raise the overall gear ratio too much you'll impair the bike's rideability, because the gears will be far enough apart that there will be only one gear that provides adequate response at any given speed. Honda 750s don't have the widest of power bands. --
I am glad that you recognize that people should not engage in denial and repression, and should acknowledge such. The United States, with its people, have recognized that repression has taken place, with the loss and outright abrogation of civil liberties and constitutional protections of citizens. This recognition has taken the form of the civil rights law (let's just discuss the federal level for now), such as 18 USC 241 et. seq., 42 USC 1981 et. seq, et. al. With this recognition of repression, at times manifested in the form of collective guilt, I want people to recognize denial. Though it can be said that white people numerically commit more crimes in the United States, because white people are a majority, it can also be said that black people commit a disproportionate amount of crime in the United States, in their relation to their numbers in population. My views are out of experiences when I was a police officer in a large metropolitan area, and of a citizen. Unless people account for their behavior, and for the behavior of their immediate community, nothing will improve. Regards,
Archive-name: space/launchers Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:11 $ ORBITAL AND PLANETARY LAUNCH SERVICES The following data comes from _International Reference Guide to Space Launch Systems_ by Steven J. Isakowitz, 1991 edition. Notes: * Unless otherwise specified, LEO and polar paylaods are for a 100 nm orbit. * Reliablity data includes launches through Dec, 1990. Reliabity for a familiy of vehicles includes launches by types no longer built when applicable * Prices are in millions of 1990 $US and are subject to change. * Only operational vehicle families are included. Individual vehicles which have not yet flown are marked by an asterisk (*) If a vehicle had first launch after publication of my data, it may still be marked with an asterisk. Vehicle | Payload kg (lbs) | Reliability | Price | Launch Site (nation) | LEO Polar GTO | | | (Lat. & Long.) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ariane 35/40 87.5% Kourou (ESA) (5.2 N, 52.8 W) AR40 4,900 3,900 1,900 1/1 $65m (10,800) (8,580) (4,190) AR42P 6,100 4,800 2,600 1/1 $67m (13,400) (10,600) (5,730) AR44P 6,900 5,500 3,000 0/0 ? $70m (15,200) (12,100) (6,610) AR42L 7,400 5,900 3,200 0/0 ? $90m (16,300) (13,000) (7,050) AR44LP 8,300 6,600 3,700 6/6 $95m (18,300) (14,500) (8,160) AR44L 9,600 7,700 4,200 3/4 $115m (21,100) (16,900) (9,260) * AR5 18,000 ??? 6,800 0/0 $105m (39,600) (15,000) [300nm] Atlas 213/245 86.9% Cape Canaveral (USA) (28.5 N, 81.0W) Atlas E -- 820 -- 15/17 $45m Vandeberg AFB (1,800) (34.7 N, 120.6W) Atlas I 5,580 4,670 2,250 1/1 $70m (12,300) (10,300) (4,950) Atlas II 6,395 5,400 2,680 0/0 $75m (14,100) (11,900) (5,900) Atlas IIA 6,760 5,715 2,810 0/0 $85m (14,900) (12,600) (6,200) * Atlas IIAS 8,390 6,805 3,490 0/0 $115m (18,500) (15,000) (7,700) Delta 189/201 94.0% Cape Canaveral (USA) Vandenberg AFB Delta 6925 3,900 2,950 1,450 14/14 $45m (8,780) (6,490) (3,190) Delta 7925 5,045 3,830 1,820 1/1 $50m (11,100) (8,420) (2,000) Energia 2/2 100% Baikonur (Russia) (45.6 N 63.4 E) Energia 88,000 80,000 ??? 2/2 $110m (194,000) (176,000) H series 22/22 100% Tangeshima (Japan) (30.2 N 130.6 E) * H-2 10,500 6,600 4,000 0/0 $110m (23,000) (14,500) (8,800) Kosmos 371/377 98.4% Plestek (Russia) (62.8 N 40.1 E) Kosmos 1100 - 1350 (2300 - 3000) $??? Kapustin Yar [400 km orbit ??? inclination] (48.4 N 45.8 E) Long March 23/25 92.0% Jiquan SLC (China) (41 N 100 E) * CZ-1D 720 ??? 200 0/0 $10m Xichang SLC (1,590) (440) (28 N 102 E) Taiyuan SLC CZ-2C 3,200 1,750 1,000 12/12 $20m (41 N 100 E) (7,040) (3,860) (2,200) CZ-2E 9,200 ??? 3,370 1/1 $40m (20,300) (7,430) * CZ-2E/HO 13,600 ??? 4,500 0/0 $??? (29,900) (9,900) CZ-3 ??? ??? 1,400 6/7 $33m (3,100) * CZ-3A ??? ??? 2,500 0/0 $???m (5,500) CZ-4 4,000 ??? 1,100 2/2 $???m (8,800) (2,430) Pegasus/Taurus 2/2 100% Peg: B-52/L1011 (USA) Taur: Canaveral Pegasus 455 365 125 2/2 $10m or Vandenberg (1,000) (800) (275) * Taurus 1,450 1,180 375 0/0 $15m (3,200) (2,600) (830) Proton 164/187 87.7% Baikonour (Russia) Proton 20,000 ??? 5,500 164/187 $35-70m (44,100) (12,200) SCOUT 99/113 87.6% Vandenberg AFB (USA) Wallops FF SCOUT G-1 270 210 54 13/13 $12m (37.9 N 75.4 W) (600) (460) (120) San Marco (2.9 S 40.3 E) * Enhanced SCOUT 525 372 110 0/0 $15m (1,160) (820) (240) Shavit 2/2 100% Palmachim AFB (Israel) ( ~31 N) Shavit ??? 160 ??? 2/2 $22m (350) Space Shuttle 37/38 97.4% Kennedy Space (USA) Center Shuttle/SRB 23,500 ??? 5,900 37/38 $248m (28.5 N 81.0 W) (51,800) (13,000) [FY88] * Shuttle/ASRM 27,100 ??? ??? 0/0 (59,800) SLV 2/6 33.3% SHAR Center (India) (400km) (900km polar) (13.9 N 80.4 E) ASLV 150 ??? ??? 0/2 $???m (330) * PSLV 3,000 1,000 450 0/0 $???m (6,600) (2,200) (990) * GSLV 8,000 ??? 2,500 0/0 $???m (17,600) (5,500) Titan 160/172 93.0% Cape Canaveral (USA) Vandenberg Titan II ??? 1,905 ??? 2/2 $43m (4,200) Titan III 14,515 ??? 5,000 2/3 $140m (32,000) (11,000) Titan IV/SRM 17,700 14,100 6,350 3/3 $154m-$227m (39,000) (31,100) (14,000) Titan IV/SRMU 21,640 18,600 8,620 0/0 $???m (47,700) (41,000) (19,000) Vostok 1358/1401 96.9% Baikonur (Russia) [650km] Plesetsk Vostok 4,730 1,840 ??? ?/149 $14m (10,400) (4,060) Soyuz 7,000 ??? ??? ?/944 $15m (15,400) Molniya 1500kg (3300 lbs) in ?/258 $???M Highly eliptical orbit
Since this posting, I've received no replies or followups, so I'm posting here hoping for the feedback I didn't get in rec.audio.car: article number - 9855 Newsgroups: rec.audio.car Path: cbfsb!cbnewsb.cb.att.com!vinlai From: vinlai@cbnewsb.cb.att.com (vincent.lai) Subject: Third party car antennas ... Message-ID: <1993Apr13.202333.28657@cbfsb.cb.att.com> Sender: news@cbfsb.cb.att.com Organization: AT&T Distribution: na Date: Tue, 13 Apr 1993 20:23:33 GMT I recently saw a particular third party antenna on a new Camry (not mine, but it caught my interest) and a new 626. It seems to replace the factory power antenna and is about a foot long made of plastic tubing. I have seen them on quite a few cars, but I can't find anything more about them in previous r.a.c articles nor in r.a articles. I'd like to know all I can, so any feedback is greatly appreciated. ------------------------------------------------------------------ "Mom, we're hungry!" - Bud Bundy "Why tell me?" - Peg Bundy Vincent Lai vinlai@cbnewsb.att.com forwards mail to vlai@attmail.com which eventually winds up in wcmnja!lai@somerset.att.com
NMM>From: nielsmm@imv.aau.dk (Niels Mikkel Michelsen) NMM>Subject: How to act in front of traffic jerks NMM>The other day, it was raining cats and dogs, therefor I was going only to NMM>the speed limit, on nothing more, on my bike. This guy in his BMW was NMM>driving 1-2 meters behind me for 7-800 meters and at the next red light I NMM>calmly put the bike on its leg, walked back to this car, he rolled down the NMM>window, and I told him he was a total idiot (and the reason why). NMM>Did I do the right thing? NMM>Yours Truly : NMM> Niels Mikkel Well, sounds great to me! When I have a real BDI cager tailgating me, I've found that an effective strategy is to flash my brake light by pumping the pedal. You will, obviously need a bit of free play in your brake pedal to do this. It seems that even the most brain dead idiot can usually discern that a flashing red light directly in front of him/her/it may mean that something is wrong. The two problems I'd see with your strategy is that the red light may change before you can get anything meaningful out of your mouth, or the occupant(s) may take exception to your opinions and demonstrate such physically (on you or your now-parked bike). Admittedly, the latter is a slim chance, but it would be enough to give me pause. * SLMR 2.1a * sometimes you get to be the windshield, sometimes the bug
... Funny. A bit disturbing. Forging a posting seems somewhat unethical, even if the subject is as notorious as McElwaine. Followups should definitely not go to sci.space.
Well, most hangings are very quick and, I imagine, painless. And, hangings and firing squads are allowed today, too. And, if these things were not considered cruel, then surely a medical execution (painless) would not be, either.
And they're rather tasty. Per gallon (bushel) perhaps. Unfortunately they eat the same amount every day no matter how much you ride them. And if you don't fuel them they die. On an annual basis, I spend much less on bike stuff than Amy the Wonder Wife does on horse stuff. She has two horses, I've got umm, lesseee, 11 bikes. I ride constantly, she rides four or five times a week. Even if you count insurance and the cost of the garage I built, I'm getting off cheaper than she is. And having more fun (IMHO). -- Go fast. Take chances.
briefly, since i'm off to sleep. mle's work pretty well for AA nd AAA players. players who are 22 and younger will tend to have explosions in their numbers, whether mMLE's or not, in the next 2 years... players who are 26 and OLDER, at those levels, generally have inflated MLE's. they're about as reliable as having major league stats for a player.
I like the Mariners a lot, but my heart belongs to the Cubs...You can imagine my frustration when I saw the Cubs nabbing LeFebvre...ARHGGHRGHH! -John Neuharth
That would be neat, but nowhere in the Bible does it say that one who has the gift of tounges can do this. If the gift of tounges were the ability to be understood by everyone, no matter what languages they know, there would be no need for the gift of interpretation, and I Corinthians 14 would not have had to have been written. That's a pretty harsh assumption to make about a several million Christians world wide. Sure, there are some who want glory for themselves who speak in tounges, just as there are among those who do not have this gift. There were people like this in the Corinthian church also. that does not mean that there is no true gift or that all who speak in tounges do it for their own glory in the sight of men. I would venture to say that a large percentage of those who do speak in tounges do so more often in private prayer than in public. Link Hudson
I guess your strength isn't in math. Clinton hasn't been president for 6 months. In other words, it's BUSH'S Wiretapping Initiative. Have you? ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ "Who said anything about panicking?" snapped Authur. Garrett Johnson "This is still just culture shock. You wait till I've Garrett@Ingres.com settled into the situation and found my bearings. THEN I'll start panicking!" - Douglas Adams
Does anyone know the difference between MOOLIT and OLIT? Does Sun support MOOLIT? Is MOOLIT available on Sparcstations? I have recntly downloaded a copy of wkshTree written by Eric Wallengren of Univel. There are many widgets that are apparently available only to MOOLIT but not OLIT. Is there a wkshTree program available under OLIT?
I have the following items for sale. Rabbit PIP tuner SoloFlex-like gym Scanner (800 Mhz) CB Antenna Blazer/Jimmy running boards ---- Rabbit PIP (picture-in-picture) Box. This device when used with a VCR tuner will allow you to have a second channel popped up on any corner of the screen. The you can press SWAP on the remote and the small picture will be swapped with the main picture. The only limitation to this box is that it is has 36 channel tuner. This means that the box itself cannot tune higher than cable channel 36. However, if your VCR tuner is capable of tuning higher than this, then you simply tune the VCR to the channel desired and then swap pictures (assuming the alternate picture is channel 36 or lower) and it will work fine. Original cost: $149 Will sell for: $75 ---- Running boards for Jimmy or Blazer Brand new black running boards for the S10/15 models. I purchased them and realized that I could not use (after return period expired) them because of wheel trim that I have installed on my vehicle. Original cost: $125 Will sell for: $ 65 ---- Regency MX4200 20-Channel Scanner Recieves cellular frequencies (800-950 mhz) along with 7 other bands. Brand new Ni-Cad battery pack. Original Cost: $249 Will sell for: $135 ---- GYN/Plex model 2000 workout Gym, similar to Solo-Flex This gym is similar to Solo-Flex in that it uses resistance bands to increase the effective lifting weight. It is all black and made of steel. I have an extra set of bands that I purchased that will be included. Original cost: $349 Will sell for: $125 ---- Big Stick CB Antenna for 27 Mhz band. Will sell for: $30 Because of weight or or other difficulty, last 2 items for Atlanta area only please. I will share non-COD shipping charges. Thanks Manny
This has to be a setup. Lookit--same site as Arnie Skurow. Later,
The number of civilian Iraqi deaths were way over-exaggerated and exploited for anti-war emotionalism by the liberal news media. The facts are that less Iraqis died in the Gulf War than did civilians in any other war of comparable size this century! This was due mostly to the short duration coupled with precise surgical bombing techniques which were technically possible only recently. The idea that "hundreds of thousands" of Iraqi citizens died is ludicrous. Not even "hundreds of thousands" of Iraqi soldiers died, and they were the ones being targeted! Or do you think that the US and its allies were specifically out to kill and maim Iraqi civilians? Either the smart bombs didn't hit their targets (and we know they did), or they were targeting civilian targets (!) which is hardly condusive to destroying Iraq's military potential. The military mission planners are not fools, they know they have to hit *military* targets to win a war. Hitting civilian targets does nothing but unite the people against you, not a laudable goal if one wants the people to rise up against their tyrant-dictator. How about all the innocent people who died in blanket-bombing in WW2? I don't hear you bemoaning them! War is never an exact science, but with smart bombs, it's becoming more exact with a smaller percentage of civilian casualties. Sometimes mistakes are made; targets are misidentified; innocents die. That's war the way it really is. But the alternative, to allow tyrannical dictators to treat the earth like it's one big rummage sale, grabbing everything they can get is worse. Like Patrick Henry said some 217 years ago, "I know not what course others may take -- but as for me, give me liberty, or give me death!" War is always the price one must be willing to pay if one wishes to stay free. Mathew, your sarcasm is noted but you are completely off-base here. You come off sounding like a complete peace-nik idiot, although I feel sure that was not your intent. So the Iraqi war was wrong, eh? I'm sure that appeasement would have worked better than war, just like it did in WW2, eh? I guess we shouldn't have fought WW2 either -- just think of all those innocent German civilians killed in Dresden and Hamburg. How about all the poor French who died in the crossfire because we invaded the continent? We should have just let Hitler take over Europe, and you'd be speaking German instead of English right now. Tyrants like Hussein *have* to be stopped. His kind don't understand diplomacy; they only understand the point of a gun. My only regret is that Bush wimped out and didn't have the military roll into Baghdad, so now Hussein is still in power and the Iraqi people's sacrifice (not to mention the 357 Americans who died) was for naught. Liberating Kuwait was a good thing, but wiping Hussein off the map would've been better! And as for poor, poor Rodney King! Did you ever stop and think *why* the jury in the first trial brought back a verdict of "not guilty"? Those who have been foaming at the mouth for the blood of those policemen certainly have looked no further than the video tape. But the jury looked at *all* the evidence, evidence which you and I have not seen. When one makes a judgment without the benefit of a trial where evidence can be presented on both sides, one has simply lowered himself to the level of vigilante justice, a state-of-mind which your sarcasm above seemingly spoke against, but instead tends to support in the case against the policemen. Law in this country is intended to protect the rights of the accused, whether they be criminals or cops. One is not found guilty if there is a reasonable doubt of one's guilt, and only the jury is in a position to assess the evidence and render a verdict. Anyone else is simply succumbing to verbal vigilantism. Regards,
[ Article crossposted from comp.windows.ms ] [ Author was Kevin Routh ] [ Posted on 19 Apr 1993 12:35:55 GMT ] For your information: I hooked up my ImageWriter I to my COM1 serial port and used the C-Itoh 8510 driver in Windows 3.1. The cable I am using is a straight-thru cable connected to a Null Modem Adapter I got at Radio Shack (catalog #26-1496a) for $4.95. It seems to work fine with both DOS and Windows. I used the following command in DOS C:\DOS\mode COM1:9600,n,8,1,p and set up the port the same way in the Windows Ports setup. the Null Modem connections are as follows: 1 to 1 2 to 3 3 to 2 4 to 5 5 to 4 6+8 to 20 20 to 6+8 7 to 7 I printed from several applications and all seems OK. -- Kevin C. Routh Internet: krouth@slee01.srl.ford.com Ford Electronics IBMmail (PROFS): USFMCTMF ELD IC Engineering 17000 Rotunda Drive, B-121 Voice mail: (313) 337-5136 Dearborn, MI 48121-6010 Facsimile: (313) 248-6244 -- Kevin C. Routh Internet: krouth@slee01.srl.ford.com Ford Electronics IBMmail (PROFS): USFMCTMF ELD IC Engineering 17000 Rotunda Drive, B-121 Voice mail: (313) 337-5136 Dearborn, MI 48121-6010 Facsimile: (313) 248-6244
[riveting BMWMOA election soap-opera details deleted] I'm going to buy a BMW just to cast a vote for Groucho. Ride safe, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oops, sorry, my words, not the words of the Qur'an. Note that "(the celestial bodies)" in the above verse is an interpolation (which is why it is in brackets) -- it is the translator's (incorrect, IMHO) interpretation. Here is Maurice Bucaille's translation (he studied Arabic for his research into the Qur'an and science) of this verse: "(God is) the One Who created the night, the day, the sun and the moon. Each is travelling in an orbit with its own motion." (Qur'an :33) The positive aspect of this verse noted by Dr. Maurice Bucaille is that while geocentrism was the commonly accepted notion at the time (and for a long time afterwards), there is no notion of geocentrism in this verse (or anywhere in the Qur'an).
The Dodgers have been shopping Harris to other teams in their quest for more left-handed pitching. So far, no takers. Personally, I think Harris is a defensive liability, and he has also led the team in past years for hitting into double plays, or at least been among the leaders. Sharperson showed last year that if given a chance to play every day, he can get the job done. If Sharpy played just one base every day, say third, he'd also improve defensively. Wallach has helped tremendously on defense, as has Reed. The improved defense is quite noticeable and is having an effect on the pitching staff. Both Astacio AND Martinez were bailed out in recent starts by great defensive plays. Martinez pitched into the ninth in a game that might have seen him lifted in the third in past years. Astacio lasted 7 innings the other day under similar circumstances. The Dodgers are turning double plays, and keeping more balls in the infield than last year. And Piazza has also been great on defense. He has thrown out 10 of 14 batters trying to steal and has at least one pick off at first. Wallach, clearly, has contributed to the over all improvement on defense. But his offense is awful and he has cost the Dodgers some runs. But I don't think he is as bad as his current average. I suspect he will come out of this slump much as Davis and Straw seem to have come out of theirs.
I think you are vastly oversimplifying things. We know that early Christians suffered totures because of their witness to Christ. For example: ACT 5:40 His speech persuaded them. They called the apostles in and had them flogged. Then they ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. ACT 5:41 The apostles left the Sanhedrin, rejoicing because they had been counted worthy of suffering disgrace for the Name. It appears that the Jewish rulers of that time had a particular aversion to even hearing Jesus's name. ACT 5:28 "We gave you strict orders not to teach in this name," he said. "Yet you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and are determined to make us guilty of this man's blood." Finally, the first apostle's death, James of Zebedee was certainly not by Rome's hand any more than the first martyr Stephen. The problem was that if one believed in the Resurrection, then one must believe in Jesus as truly being the Son of God and what He stood for and preached during His ministry on Earth. That would have been extremely difficult for some people, especially those that had plotted to kill Him.
Fortunately, wire-wrapping is a better wiring technique than most at high frequencies; Cray computers (up to the X-MP, at least) all had wirewrapped backplanes. Wirewrap gets into trouble at much higher frequencies than any TTL can handle. The 'increase' of wiring capacitance is not really relevant (you have to use transmission line techniques, and the capacitance is no problem). Hand-powered is a terrible choice (IMHO) unless you are a field maintenance person who will do maybe a dozen connections at a time. Your hands will cramp. Battery-powered wire-wrap guns are available in the $150 range, and so are the little twiddle-stick manual types ($15). For a modest project, of a couple hundred connections, I'd prefer to borrow a professional AC unit... or a pneumatic one.
I ordered an Intrepid ES on Jan 25th and haven't seen it yet. I called a couple of weeks ago and was told 2-3 more weeks. It's probably time to call again.
Hi, I am in the process of making the decision whether I should write c++ wrappers for motif myself or use Motif++ or Interviews. Though I have downloaded the tar files, I fail to see any documentation. I have two questions: 1) If you have used these or similar c++sy toolkits what has been your experience? 2) Where do I find reference books /documentation for them? any and all input will be greatly appreciated.
1987 ARIENS RIDING LAWN MOWER This mower is in perfect condition and contains the following features: - Electric Start - 26 inch cut - Double Rear Baggers - New Battery - New Engine (one year old) - Inflatable Tires (gives nice ride) - Cushioned Seat (gives nice ride) - Tuned up and blade sharpened in the past month I am moving into a house that has a small area of grass to cut and does not require such large mower. The engine was replaced, not rebuilt, last year due to some faulty work done by a lawn mower repair shop.
Let's see... April 15th... less than 30 at bats.... and you claim that he hasn't done too much so far! Cut this guy some slack. Danny will produce this year. It's scary to think just how much he'll produce if he were to stay healthy all year. The Yanks have a lot going for them this year: good starting rotation, good bullpen, good defense and a good lineup. Also, I like Buck Showalter. Frank Howard on 1st is also a good move. Everything sounds good so far. If the Yanks stay healthy, they have a good chance at winning the pennant. This is the most fun I've had watching the Yanks since "78!
I "think" you should try linking to /usr/lib/libXmu.a instead of -lXmu. At least that solved the problem for me!
Hi netters! I often have troubles with my PC and would like to fix it by myself. Is there any book that show you how to fix your own PC (hardware, monitor, printer problems..etc). Of course, no book would tell you the exact problem with your PC, but at least it will give a general idea what might be wrong. Thanks so lot for your help.
(References: deleted to move this to a new thread) "To put it as simply as possible: *I am not a Muslim*.[...] I do not accept the charge of apostacy, because I have never in my adult life affirmed any belief, and what one has not affirmed one can not be said to have apostasized from. The Islam I know states clearly that 'there can be no coercion in matters of religion'. The many Muslims I respect would be horrified by the idea that they belong to their faith *purely by virtue of birth*, and that a person who freely chose not to be a Muslim could therefore be put to death." Salman Rushdie, "In Good Faith", 1990 "God, Satan, Paradise, and Hell all vanished one day in my fifteenth year, when I quite abruptly lost my faith. [...]and afterwards, to prove my new-found atheism, I bought myself a rather tasteless ham sandwich, and so partook for the first time of the forbidden flesh of the swine. No thunderbolt arrived to strike me down. [...] From that day to this I have thought of myself as a wholly seculat person." Salman Rushdie, "In God We Trust", 1985 Only a functional illiterate with absolutely no conception of the nature of the novel could think such a thing. I'll accept it (reluctantly) from mobs in Pakistan, but not from you. What is presented in the fictional dream of a demented character cannot by the wildest stretch of the imagination be considered a reflection on the actual Mohammad. What's worse, the novel doesn't present the Mahound/Mohammed character in any worse light than secular histories of Islam; in particular, there is no "lewd" misrepresentation of his life or that of his wives. Don't hold back; he's considered an apostate and a blasphemer. However, it's not for his writing in _The Satanic Verses_, but for what people have accepted as a propagandistic version of what is contained in that book. I have yet to find *one single muslim* who has convinced me that they have read the book. Some have initially claimed to have done so, but none has shown more knowledge of the book than a superficial Newsweek story might impart, and all have made factual misstatements about events in the book. I'll keep an eye out for it. I have a counter-proposal: I suggest that you see the Viking hardcover by Salman Rushdie called _The Satanic Verses_. Perhaps then you'll understand.
This could be accomplished by other criteria. One must remember that children often bring stress into households. As an alternative, one could consider financial incentives for every sexual act performed by two partners of different ethnic backgrounds. The plan could be entitled "PEACE INCOME SEXUAL SECURITY", or PISS for short. Every time an Israeli gets screwed by a Palestinian or visa versa, they would be eligible for income. In keeping with the spirit of the times, condoms would be a tax deductible expense. This policy does not discriminate on a gender basis nor would it apply to domestic animals of either nationality. Joint Palestinan-Israeli teams would be obligated to ensure that all acts were voluntary and promptly rewarded. The teams of Palestinian-Israel Morals Patrols, or PIMPS, would receive a percentage of the financial income in order to encourage their participation and add to their incentive in locating suitable candidates. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Shouldn't that be insemination?
Last week I posted the ALL-TIME GREATEST PLAYERS (and haphazardly misspelled several names--SORRY!) This week, it's time for the greatest PEAK players. I evaluated the following players on 4 consectutive seasons which constituted their "prime" or "peak" years. (3 was too few; 5 seemed to many--so I settled for 4). Sources, as usual, include Total Baseball 1993 and my own (biased) opinions. Here goes, feel free to comment. 1. Ted Williams (includes season after war)--missed actual peak years 2. Babe Ruth 3. Walter Johnson 4. Mickey Mantle 5. Mike Schmidt (actual peak year shortened by strike) 6. Barrry Bonds (currently at peak) 7. Honus Wagner 8. Ty Cobb 9. Tris Speaker 10. Willie Mays 11. Lefty Grove 12. Sandy Koufax 13. Joe Morgan 14. Ed Walsh 15. Christy Mathewson 16. Lou Gehrig 17. Jimmie Foxx 18. Cal Ripken Jr. 19. Pete Alexander 20. Cy Young 21. Tim Raines 22. Rickey Henderson (again, strike year '81 included) 23. Carl Yastrzemski 24. Jackie Robinson 25. Joe DiMaggio 26. Rogers Hornsby 27. George Sisler 28. Eddie Collins 29. Hank Aaron 30. Stan Musial 31. Joe Jackson 32. Wade Boggs 33. Charlie Gehringer 34. Ernie Banks 35. Bob Gibson 36. Carl Hubbell 37. Robin Yount 38. Rod Carew 39. Chuck Klein 40. Willie McCovey 41. Frank Robinson 42. Tom Seaver 43. Roger Clemens (arguably, still in peak) 44. Mel Ott 45. Frank Baker 46. Nap Lajoie (peak came in suspect league) 47. Dizzy Trout 48. George Brett 49. Mordecai Brown 50. Ryne Sandberg 1B Peak 1) Gehrig 2) Foxx 3) Sisler 4) McCovey 5) Greenberg 6) Frank Thomas (projected--sorry) 7) Dick Allen 8) Johnny Mize 9) Eddie Murray (yes, Mr.Consistency had a peak) 10) Bill Terry 2B 1) Morgan 2) J.Robinson 3) Collins 4) Hornsby 5) Gehringer 6) Carew (treated as a 2B, even though played 1B) 7) Sandberg 8) Bobby Grich 9) Nap Lajoie 10) Bill Herman, Mazeroski (tough call) 3B) 1) Schmidt 2) Boggs 3) F.Baker 4) Brett 5) Ed Mathews 6) Ron Santo 7) Harland Clift 8) Ken Boyer 9) Buddy Bell 10) Darrell Evans SS 1) Wagner 2) Ripken 3) Banks 4) Yount 5) John Lloyd (estimated) 6) Arky Vaughan 7) Barry Larkin (still in peak?) 8) Lou Boudreau 9) Ozzie Smith 10) Joe Sewell LF 1) Williams 2) Ba.Bonds 3) Raines 4) Henderson (actually had 2 peaks; 80-83 & 83-86) 5) Yastrzemski 6) Musial 7) J.Jackson 8) Ralph Kiner 9) Al Simmons 10) George Foster 11) Willie Stargell CF 1) Mantle 2) Cobb 3) Speaker 4) Mays 5) DiMaggio 6) Oscar Charleston (again, estimated) 7) Duke Snider 8) Ken Griffey Jr. (personal assumption) 9) Kirby Puckett 10) Richie Ashburn 11) Dale Murphy (strike season?) RF 1) Ruth 2) Aaron 3) Klein 4) F.Robinson 5) Ott 6) Roberto Clemente 7) Tony Gwynn 8) Dave Parker 9) Reggie Jackson 10) Harry Heilmann 11) Jose Canseco 12) Darryl Strawberry C 1) Josh Gibson (estimated) 2) Mickey Cochrane 3) Gary Carter 4) Johnny Bench 5) Roy Campanella 6) Yogi Berra 7) Bill Dickey 8) Gabby Hartnett 9) Elston Howard 10) Ted Simmons 11) Joe Torre P 1) W.Johnson 2) Grove 3) Koufax 4) Walsh 5) Mathewson 6) Alexander 7) Young 8) Gibson 9) Hubbell 10) Seaver 11) Clemens 12) Satchel Paige (estimated) 13) D.Trout 14) Juan Marichal 15) Mordecai Brown 16) Joe Wood 17) Dave Steib 18) Jim Palmer 19) Bob Lemon 20) Fergie Jenkins RP 1) Who cares? I hope there are some surprises here: Raines above Muisial? Carter above Bench? Ripken above Banks? Bonds above Mays? Check the numbers of each player in comparison to the numbers of the rest of the players that year(s), and you'll see that I'm fairly close with this ranking system (which is primarily based on Total Player Rating) for four consecutive years.
Excerpts from netnews.comp.windows.x: 23-Apr-93 X Toolkits Paul Prescod@undergrad.m (1132) If you're on the internet and your site isn't sheltered from external tcp/ip traffic, you can use the Remote Andrew Demo to see what the Andrew Toolkit looks like: Remote Andrew Demo Service This network service allows you to run Andrew Toolkit applications without the overhead of obtaining or compiling the Andrew software. You need a host machine on the Internet, and you need to be running the X11 window system. A simple "finger" command will allow you to experience ATK applications firsthand. You'll be able to compose multimedia documents, navigate through the interactive Andrew Tour, and use the Andrew Message System to browse through CMU's three thousand bulletin boards and newsgroups. To use the Remote Andrew Demo service, simply run the following command on your machine: finger help@atk.itc.cmu.edu The service will give you further instructions.
Source: "Men Are Like That" by Leonard Ramsden Hartill. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis (1926). (305 pages). (Memoirs of an Armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people) p. 133 (first paragraph) "In this movement we took with us three thousand Turkish soldiers who had been captured by the Russians and left on our hands when the Russians abandoned the struggle. During our retreat to Karaklis two thousand of these poor devils were cruelly put to death. I was sickened by the brutality displayed, but could not make any effective protest. Some, mercifully, were shot. Many of them were burned to death. The method employed was to put a quantity of straw into a hut, and then after crowding the hut with Turks, set fire to the straw." Serdar Argic
Reply to haljordan@delphi.com or call 708 674-2603:
Not acceptable. Syria and Lebanon have a right to determine if they wish to return to the situation prior to the French invasion where they were both part of the same "mandate territory" - read colony. Israel has no right to determine what happens in Lebanon. Invading another country because you consider them a threat is precisely the way that almost all wars of aggression have started. Again territorial expansion by force. The UN defines them as occupied. They are recognised as such by every nation on earth (excluding one small caribean island). So the Adam thinks that peace is possible with continued occupation and a continued military presence? That is a completely unsustainable situation because the USA is bankrupt and simply cannot afford to finance the Israeli ecconomy any more. There is no money for such an occupation. They were moved in as part of a deliberate policy to prevent the return of the occupied territories. Machiavelli described the reasoning in the Prince. The clear intention was to create a constituency which the Likud beleived could not be deprived of the land stolen from the indigenous population. The pretexts under which the settlers aquired land was through the redefinition of much land used in common as "public land". The assertion that the village common on which the village depends for food belongs to an invader simply because no individual has title is clearly an excuse. When the land is used to build a condominium for aliens brought in to occupy the land for a foreign power there is a clear breach of the Geneva convention which stipulates that land use in occupied territories must not be changed. No amount of self justifying on the part of Likud and hard linner appologists will change the fact that the majority of world governments, and all of those that actually have any power have condemned this practice. Theyu also are a liability. We are talking about civilian encampments that would last no more than hours against tanks, Don't fool yourself. It was the gulf war that brought the Israelis to the negotiating table. Once their US backers had a secure base in the gulf they insrtructed Shamir to negotiate or else. If the creation of settlements had gone on any longer the USA would have cut the money supply. Not at all. They can chose to live in an arab state or return to Israel. The existence of a comunity does not give the right for another country to annexe territory, not in Bosnia, not in the West Bank. Unless the new boundaries drawn up are those of 48 there will be no peace. Araffat has precious little authority to agree to anything else. The real issue is not the land treaty but the trade treaty. Since the Palestinians will remain heavily dependent on Israel indefinitely it is this that will be the guarantor of peace. another factor will be the return of lands confiscated by the Israeli state within Israel and the dismantling of the shadow structures which allow discrimination against non-Jews within what is nominaly a secular state. The irony is that in return for a guarantee that the palestinian state has a non descrimination law in order to protect the remaining settlers the Israeli state is going to be forced inot the same position. This will mean outlawing of discrimination such as that which prevents arabs from buying or using much of the land.
If you want to see environmental disasters, go to eastern Europe or some parts of the FSU (former Soviet Union). This is because they had no environmental protection laws and were trying to increase productivity at any expense to justify their political systems. Luckily for us, some of our politicians with vision passed some environmental laws. That isn't to say that they shouldn't be modified, but all I ever hear from you is that the environmental laws were dreamed up by a bunch of left-wing tree-huggers intent on putting us back on horseback. Yes, there are some of those, but a lot of us simply want to procede with caution. -- John Viveiros (jviv@chevron.com) Chevron USA Standard disclaimer applies Midland TX -- NetNews userid for nntpserver.chevron.com
X Window installation on a Sun4/470 with CG6 alone and with CG2 as screen:0.0 and CG6 as screen:0.1. Questions: 1) Are there any hardware configuration changes on the CG2 and/or CG6 devices that need to be made other than pulling out and inserting the CG2 frame buffer in the vme bus? 2) The CG6 is called a 'graphics accelerator' as apposed to a 'frame buffer'. What is the significance of this to the X server and how do we install the SunOS driver / X to be compatable. ----------------------- I would appreciate any information on this. I am posting this on the behalf of Dr. John Charlton (who does not have net access). Please reply to him directly at charlton@bme.unc.edu or just send it at this address and I will forward it. Thank you for your help!
# # # And now those "other options" don't exist. We probably agree on this # # # more than you think--welfare was invented to solve a problem of the # # # 30's, but the poverty is now so much worse, and our economic infra- # # # structure has been so eroded, that it just can't keep up any more. # # # You mean, since your philosophy took over, the economy has almost # # collapsed. # # Excuse me, *my* philosophy? You don't have any idea what *my* philosophy # is. The American economy has had its ups and downs through a number of # prevailing economic philosophies. But then, economics is hardly a science. In my lifetime, your philosophy -- socialism masquerading as a liberal welfare state -- has been in ascendancy. # No, I mean exactly what I wrote--the welfare system of the New Deal is # wholly inadequate to cope with the current state of affairs. Absolutely. So the response of socialists is take us even further into socialism. # # # # # (2) Whether or not the fathers work # # # # # is not germane to single mothers. # # # # # Very true. But the promotion of casual sexuality is something that # # # # plays a part in the single mother problem. # # # # I'll buy that--and there's lots of reasons for it, extremely far down on # # # the list being the flash-in-the-pan media attention a bunch of middle- # # # class dropouts got for their philosophy and experimentation. # # # Flash-in-the-pan? No, your subculture has utterly dominated the # # TV and movie industries for two decades now. # # *My* subculture? My, we're getting personal. The only subculture I see # dominating the TV and movie industries is *money*. If you'll buy it, # they'll sell it. And as recent movements to boycott TV advertisers have # shown, they're *very* sensitive about what sells. Whatever happened to # personal responsibility, anyway? Or am I personally responsible for # the decline in that, too? To the extent that people have been encouraged to NOT be responsible for themselves, yes. # # # # Come on. You and I both know that the major problem of this society # # # # today isn't a lack of employment, it's a lack of people willing to work. # # # # Huh??? Tell that to the single mother I know who was laid off from # # # her $10/hour job at a hospital and now works 2 full-time minimum- # # # wage jobs to barely be able to support herself and her kid. *Barely.* # # # Hey, she's too proud to go on public assistance, but the only jobs # # # she can find are menial and with no benefits. And no career path # # # either--they find excuses to lay people off and hire new ones rather # # # than give raises and perks. And why not? It's a lot cheaper. # # # Oddly enough, all the unskilled or semiskilled people I know manage # # to find employment almost immediately. Maybe she needs to move to a # # cheaper part of the country, where jobs are plentiful, and the cost # # of living is lower. # # The west side of Chicago is about as cheap as it gets--squalor city. # Tell me about all these places where it's cheap to live and jobs are # abundant--I'll pass them on. Sonoma County. # You live in a strange and wondrous place, sir. Inexpensive housing, Not exactly cheap, but not Los Angeles, either. # lots of employment, and utterly surrounded by socialists. Well, I suppose # that's the sort of environment that would attract socialists, or at least # not dissuade them. No, it's that areas with a lot of wealthy breed socialists -- all the spoiled rich kids, feeling guilty about their wealth. But not guilty enough to give it away -- they just look for politicians to take MY more limited wealth away. # # # I see a lot of people willing--nay, eager--to work. What I don't see # # # is a system that makes it at all feasible to do so. It's not just # # # welfare, which nobody enjoys, but there just aren't the jobs any more. # # # When the US was expanding industrial capacity there was always a mill # # # to go work in--skills to learn, a future. Now there's only McDonalds. # # # Odd. Not the experience of anyone I know. Just the opposite. # # In California??? Yup. # # # Mr. Cramer, I was there: Hippiedom was a very low-budget operation. # # # Our drugs were cheap. # # # The money I was referring to was Aid to Families with Druggie # # Cohabitators (AFDC). # # Well, I doubt that much of this goes to drugs--there isn't much left after # buying food, and there is very little in the first place. Sure, you read # about such cases now and then, but that's what makes them news. Show me # your statistics about AFDC abuse. I can tell you that relatives I have known, the drugs came first, the food was secondary. # Ken Perlow ***** *****
================================================================= I am posting this for someone else. Please respond to the address listed below. Please also excuse the duplication as this message has been crossposted. Thanks! ================================================================= REQUEST FOR IDEAS FOR APPLICATIONS OF REMOTE SENSING DATABASES VIA THE INTERNET NASA is planning to expand the domain of users of its Earth and space science data. This effort will: o Use the evolving infrastructure of the U.S. Global Change Research Program including the Mission To Planet Earth (MTPE) and the Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) Programs. o Use the Internet, particularly the High Performance Computing and Communications Program's NREN (National Research and Education Network), as a means of providing access to and distribution of science data and images and value added products. o Provide broad access to and utilization of remotely sensed images in cooperation with other agencies (especially NOAA, EPA, DOE, DEd, DOI/USGS, and USDA). o Support remote sensing image and data users and development communities. The user and development communities to be included (but not limited to) as part of this effort are educators, commercial application developers (e.g., television weather forecasters), librarians, publishers, agriculture specialists, transportation, forestry, state and local government planners, and aqua business. This program will be initiated in 1994. Your assistance is requested to identify potential applications of remote sensing images and data. We would like your ideas for potential application areas to assist with development of the Implementation Plan. PLEASE NOTE: THIS IS NOT A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS. We are seeking your ideas in these areas: (1) Potential commercial use of remote sensing data and images; (2) Potential noncommercial use of remote sensing data and images in education (especially levels K-12) and other noncommercial areas; (3) Types of on-line capabilities and protocols to make the data more accessible; (4) Additional points of contacts for ideas; and (5) Addresses and names from whom to request proposals. For your convenience, a standard format for responses is included below. Feel free to amend it as necessary. Either e-mail or fax your responses to us by May 5, 1993. E-MAIL: On Internet "rsdwg@orion.ossa.hq.nasa.gov" ASCII - No binary attachments please FAX: Ernie Lucier, c/o RSDWG, NASA HQ, FAX 202-358-3098 Survey responses in the following formats may also be placed in the FTP directory ~ftp/pub/RSDWG on orion.nasa.gov. Please indicate the format. Acceptable formats are: Word for Windows 2.X, Macintosh Word 4.X and 5.X, and RTF. ----------------------------RESPONSE FORMAT-------------------------- REQUEST FOR IDEAS FOR APPLICATIONS OF REMOTE SENSING DATABASES VIA THE INTERNET (1) Potential commercial use of remote sensing data and images (if possible, identify the relevant types of data or science products, user tools, and standards). (2) Uses of remote sensing data and images in education (especially levels K-12) and other noncommercial areas (if possible, identify the relevant types of data or science products, user tools, and standards). (3) Types of on-line capabilities and protocols to make the data and images more accessible (if possible, identify relevant types of formats, standards, and user tools) (4) Additional suggested persons or organizations that may be resources for further ideas on applications areas. Please include: Name, Organization, Address and Telephone Number. (5) Organizations, mailing lists (electronic and paper), periodicals, etc. to whom a solicitation for proposals should be sent when developed. Please include: Name, Organization, Address and Telephone Number. (6) We would benefit from knowing why users that know about NASA remote sensing data do not use the data. Is it because they do not have ties to NASA investigators, or high cost, lack of accessibility, incompatible data formats, poor area of interest coverage, inadequate spatial or spectral resolution, ...?
One thing is certain, though, its still too cold. After about 40 Hell! This is WARM. I retired my fleece from under the Aerostich last month when the temperature got aboce 40. Try living a couple of years on the dole, so you cant afford any heating. You put the gear on in October, abd you take it off again in May. Getting out on the bike seems like a luxury in comparison cos oyur usuallu going somewhere warm. Its all relative.
I haven't been following the previous HR's. But there are two, that I saw live that would have to be up there (up where? there!). 1) Rick Monday's HR to bury the Expos in the NL championship in 1981. It was hit off Steve Rogers, who is a RHP and primarily a starter. Why was he used as a reliever when the 'Spos had Reardon and BillLee warming up in the bullpen. Considering Monday couldn't touch LHP, Lee would have been a safe bet. He wasn't even doing any drugs at that time (or so he told me and around 50 others on a recent venture into Montreal. The blast wasn't the important aspect. It was the timing. Seventh game, a tie game, and in the top of the 9th. The Expos almost came back though... 2) Mike Schmidt hit one that killed the Expos in 1980. So close, yet, so far. and 3) Strawberry killed a pitch on the second day of the season a couple of years ago. It went off the technical ring in the Big O. It almost left the stadium! That was hit HARD!!! CorelMARK!
If you do make it into New York state, the Palisades Interstate Parkway is a pleasant ride (beautiful scenery, good road surface, minimal traffic). You may also want to take a sidetrip along Seven Lakes Drive just off the parkway for the same reasons plus the road sweeps up and down along the hills with sweeping turns under old forest canopy.
think again!! thanks to 60 minutes (tick tick tick), used 200 quattros are bargains.. '89s go for about $15K, '90s go for perhaps 1 or 2K more, the 20 valve 91's are quite a bit more because of an enormous hp and torque gain.. i think they go for about $23 to $25K if you can find one. i have seen quite a lot of '89-'90 200 quattros (not that many wagons though) at the dealer lot.. they use very high quality paint and the entire car is zinc galvanized, so it will never rust. in short, typically a 4 yr old 200 looks no more older than a 1 year old and the 5 bangers are bullet proof engines. 200K out of one is not rare, even for a turbo, which is watercooled for the 200s. then there are aftermarket chips that you can buy to bump up turbo boost... if you are into luxo-gizmos.. the cars are loaded with just about everything too.. the price of parts is a different story though...
I am developing an X (Xt,Xm) application that will include a graphics window of some sort with moving symbols among other things. A pure X application could be implemented with Motif widgets, one of which would be an XmDrawingArea for drawing with Xlib. But I would like to take advantage of the Graphics Library (GL) available on our IBM RS/6000 (SGI's GL i believe). Is it possible to mix X and GL in one application program? Can I use GL subroutines in an XmDrawingArea or in an X window opened by me with XOpenWindow? I have never used GL before, but the doc on GL winopen() says that the first time winopen() is called it opens a connection to the server. Also, most of the GL calls do not require a Display or GC, unlike most X calls. From this initial information it appears that X and GL cannot be mixed easily. Is this true? Does PEX (graPHIGS?) have the same functionality of GL? Environment: AIXwindows X11R4 Motif 1.1 GL is available AIX Sys V 3.2 IBM RS/6000 360 Thanks in advance. Jay Graham Jade Simulations International Corp. 14 Colonnade Road, Suite 150 Nepean, Ontario, Canada 613-225-5900 x226
imaginative? No, but at least it would be a theory.
Since we are talking in theory and opinion, then I'll put in my $.02. First, a rebuttle. Personally, I love under-dogs. Unlike bandwagon jumpers, I abandon teams when they start winning. People that cheer for winners just because they are winners are insecure people who are afraid to be associated with something negative. On this one point, I agree. The reason that people bash WASP's is because they have been on top for a long time. Whoever is on top is going to oppress whoever is below them so that they can stay on top. If Hannibal had pushed on to Rome after his victory at Cannae we might all be bashing the blacks for oppressing us peacefull white people for all these centuries. I seriously doubt that if the blacks had conquered the world that they would have treated their colonies any better/worse than the whites did. The white race did some unspeakable things to the other races of the world. But they only did what any other conquering race would have done (ie. Khan). The real question is, should we carry over that blame to the present generation who didn't participate in the crimes? Would it do any good? Has it done Bosnia any good? They are fighting wars that stopped hundreds, even thousands, of years ago. My opinion is, if there are inequities now, then let's change them. But don't blame me for what my ancestors did. It wouldn't settle anything anyway. That's where you are dead wrong. You don't join up on a side just because they are winning. That makes you spineless. Winning, in high school and after high school, is still the best way to be popular, but it doesn't make you right. All the best causes in history were loosing causes (with only a couple exceptions). Winning only makes a difference to other people, not to yourself. And what good is the opinions of other people if they only care how you appear (ie. a Winner). If you can't beat them, fight them every inch of the way. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ "At that moment the bottom fell out of Authur's mind. Garrett Johnson His eyes turned inside out. His feet began to leak out Garrett@Ingres.com of the top of his head. The room folded flat around him, spun around, shifted out of existence and left him sliding into his own naval." - Douglas Adams
Since the actual verdicts were not known by the authorities, it was smart not to allow "Friday night for fighting" (sorry, Elton) and to seal them for this morning. Also, it allows for maximum daylight to wear down and frustrate any potential troublemakers, as well as give more preparation time. Are you a local news intern? (-; Actually, that was 8 PM 'cos it was shown live on our 11 PM news and cut into CNN's 11 O'clock Sports (sorry, but I didn't watch the Devils-Islanders game! No SportsChannel ...). We had cutovers to LA's KNBC on our WNBC, and I didn't recall this detail. But I'll not comment further on that ... A net-contact in L.A. tells me that the alert will remain over this weekend, as some elements may find excuse over the not-guilty verdicts on three of five charges (the aiding-and-abetting). Those acquittals seem to balance out the fact that Rodney King himself was not any kind of angel that night, speeding and fleeing et al. However ... Another consideration is any street celebrations over the two convictions on the excessive force charges (Koons for incompetance, and Powell for overreacting --- both guilty as heck even from the view of NYPD cops interviewed) that might get out of hand. )-; Also, some elements may take the acquittals as an excuse to challenge the cops (a dumb move, obviously). And, Koreans are still scared and certain people are really mad over how they have armed themselves in the last year. A Commander from Nassau, Long Island was questioned about how his people would have handled Rodney King, and he said "We'd have let him roll around in the dirt 'til he got tired, then handcuff him". gld
[ These two paragraphs are from two different posts. In splicing them together it is not my intention to change Steve's meaning or misrepresent him in any way. I don't *think* I've done so. ] Part of what started this was my earlier example of Illinois, USA requiring anyone doing more than X automobile transfers a year (X = 10, I think) to become licensed as a used car dealer. In addition, it requirs anyone with a used car dealer's license to own at least 10 cars at a time, all the time. Let me continue with this example and try to answer Steve's questions. Steve, let's say you have the talent and inclination to fix up and resell cars. Either you've gotten good enough at it in your spare time to bump up against these limits, or you would like to do it full-time but these stupid, arbitrary laws prevent you from starting out small and pulling yourself up. So I'm protected from a hungry neighborhood competitor willing to take a low profit while working extra hard to fulfill my needs, and you're protected from doing what you want with your life. Here's what I see libertarianism offering you: Your money is truly yours; it belongs to you. You can use it to buy a car. If you use it to buy a car, it is truly your car; it belongs to you. You can use your money to fix up that car. Since it is your car, you can sell that car. Your life is truly yours; it belongs to you. It matters not if someone thinks that it's "wrong" for you to buy and sell 10 cars within 12 months rather than, say, 9 cars. They may dissaprove, but it is not their life or their money, it is your life and your money. My money is truly mine; it belongs to me. I can use it to buy a car. Perhaps your car. Perhaps that 10th car, the one that someone, somewhere dissaproves of you selling and, presumably, of me buying. That someone could go to the government and insist that the government make us stop it. But the government would be powerless to stop us from doing what we like with our own property, in the abscence of fraud or agression. And it would be powerless to stop us from associating with each other. This does not seem to me to be a utopian dream, but basic human decency and common sense. A real grass-roots example of freedom and liberty. And yes, not having a few people acting as our masters, approving or rejecting each of our basic transactions with each other, does strike me as a wonderful way to improve the human condition.
just a suggestion: take a motorola mc14536B set it up to give you a pulse once every sec or ten secs with either a RC or xtal clock input. then feed to a MC14521B as clock input and decode output for 1,209,600 sec output ,might have to add a few 'and' gates or decoder chips to get output and reset pulse back to the'521 to restart cycle... Trigger a oneshot from the decoded riseing edge ;the one shot then goes to a mosfet to drive the mechanism to fire the pellet launcher.. these ckts require uAmps of current,between 5 - 15 volts, so a 12 volt gel cell of a few Amphours would last the six weeks. Then take the ckt board & battery wrap in 3" or 4" of foam or build a box of out of the stuff...with plywood or metal exterior... build a small heater out of 10-50 Watt resistors in series to keep the battery and ckts warm. 2nd thought use 2 batteries one for heater one for timer and pellet trigger. Insolate-insolate.......even though the chips state that the - AL rated devices are good to -55 C.. The batteries have a considerable reduction in capacity...oh make sure the area inside has minium air leakage.. hope this helps RW ( is this to long winded for the net??)(be gentle)...
I thought I posted this last year. The women came to court with three witnesses; the two women that were in the car and one neighbor that heard me shouting. My lawyer didn't like the odds since there were multiple complaints both ways and the judge had a history of finding everyone guilty of at least something, so he convinced us (she came without a lawyer) to drop everything. The net result was a $500 laywer bill for me and $35 court costs for her. The only consolation was that she had trouble scraping together the $35 while $500 is not quite one week's beer money for me...
If this is God's attitude, then I'll think I'll go along with Terry Pratchett's religious philosophy: "Oh, I believe in God. I just don't actually _like_ the blighter." P.
Has anyone had experience porting imake to DOS using a Microsoft, Watcom, or any other DOS compiler?
Also remember that every dollar spent keeping one spacecraft in safe mode (probably a spin-stabilized sun-pointing orientation) is a dollar not spent on mission analysis for a newer spacecraft. In order to turn the spacecraft back on, you either need to insure that the Ops guys will be available, or you need to retrain a new team. Having said that, there are some spacecraft that do what you have proposed. Many of the operational satellites Goddard flies (like the Tiros NOAA series) require more than one satellite in orbit for an operational set. Extras which get replaced on-orbit are powered into a "standby" mode for use in an emergency. In that case, however, the same ops team is still required to fly the operational birds; so the standby maintenance is relatively cheap. Finally, Pat's explanation (some spacecraft require continuous maintenance to stay under control) is also right on the mark. I suggested a spin- stabilized control mode because it would require little power or maintenance, but it still might require some momentum dumping from time to time. In the end, it *is* a political decision (since the difference is money), but there is some technical rationale behind the decision.
It is available through some dealerships, who in turn have to back order it from the manufacturer directly. Each one is made to order, at least if you get a nonstandard length (standard is 5', I believe). See below I have a 6' long CobraLinks lock that I used to use for my Harley (she doesn't get out much anymore, so I don't use the lock that often anymore). It is made of 3/4" articulated steel shells covering seven strands of steel cable. It is probably enough to stop all the joyriders, but, unfortunately, professionals can open it rather easily: 1) Freeze a link. 2) Break frozen link with your favorite method (hammers work well). 3) Snip through the steel cables (which, I have on authority, are frightfully thin) with a set of boltcutters. For the same money, you can get a Kryptonite cable lock, which is anywhere from 1/2" to 7/8" thick steel cable (looks like steel rope), shielded in a flexible covering to protect your bike's finish, and has a barrel-type locking mechanism. I don't know if it's adjustable, but my source says it's more difficult to pick than most locks, and the cable tends to squish flat in bolt-cutter jaws rather than shear (5/8" model). All bets are off if the thief has a die grinder with a cutoff wheel. Even the most durable locks tested yield to this tool in less than one minute. FYI, I'll be getting a Krypto cable next paycheck. Later,
I've gotten very few posts on this group in the last couple days. (I recently added it to my feed list.) Is it just me, or is this group near death? --
^^^^^^ what the hell ios a 'wovie' ?? (wovy (sp))??
I don't feel that I'm preaching. I'm just trying to answer people's questions and talking about my religion, my beliefs. When it comes to what I post, I don't do it with the intent of converting anyone. I don't expect for the atheists in this newsgroup to take what I say with a grain of salt if they so wish. I just state what I beleve, they ask me how I believeit and why and we all go on. If that's preaching, then I'm soory and I'll get off the soapbox.
# I hope I gave you a fairly solid answer to this one: I simply don't agree # with the embodied version of a Satan who is a separate creation or a force. # And there are quite physical descriptions of Heaven and Hell in the # Holy Qur'an, the Bible, etc. There have been times in the spiritual # and intellectual evolution of the modern human when these physical # descriptions of Heaven, Hell, and Satan were taken quite literally # and that *worked* for the time. As I mentioned in the Tradition # cited above, for example, it was sufficient in the absence of a theory # about germs and disease spread by worms to simply describe the "evil" # which was passed to a consumer of spoiled food as "satanic." Which begs the question: if Satan in this case is metaphorical, how can you be certain Allah is not the same way? # The bottom line here, however, is that describing a spiritual plane # in human language is something like describing "color" to a person # who has been blind from birth. You may want to read the book # FLATLAND (if you haven't already) or THE DRAGON'S EGG. The first # is intended as a light hearted description of a mathematical con- # cept... [some deleted for space saving] # When language fails because it cannot be used to adequately describe # another dimension which cannot be experienced by the speakers, then # such conventions as metaphor, allegory, and the like come to be # necessary. The "unseen" is described in terms which have reference` # and meaning for the reader/listener. But, like all models, a compro- # mise must be made when speaking metaphorically: clarity and directness # of meaning, equivalence of perception, and the like are all # crippled. But what else can you do? This is why I asked the above. How would you then know God exists as a spirit or being rather than just being metaphorical? I mean, it's okay to say "well, Satan is just metaphorical," but then you have to justify this belief AND justify that God is not some metaphor for something else. I say this because there are many, many instances of Satan described as a being (such as the tormentor in the Old Testament book of Job, or the temptor in the New Testament Gospels). In the same way, God too is described as a being (or spirit.) How am I to know one is metaphorical and not the other. Further, belief in God isn't a bar to evil. Let's consider the case of Satanists: even if Satan were metaphorical, the Satanist would have to believe in God to justify this belief. Again, we have a case where someone does believe in God, but by religious standards, they are "evil." If Bobby does see this, let him address this question also. [deleted some more on "metaphor"] Stephen _/_/_/_/ _/_/_/_/ _/ _/ * Atheist _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ * Libertarian _/_/_/_/ _/_/_/_/ _/ _/ _/ * Pro-individuality _/ _/ _/ _/ _/ * Pro-responsibility _/_/_/_/ _/ _/ _/ _/ Jr. * and all that jazz...
