Reuters - Short-sellers, Wall Street's dwindling band of ultra-cynics, are seeing green again.
Reuters - Private investment firm Carlyle Group, which has a reputation for making well-timed and occasionally controversial plays in the defense industry, has quietly placed its bets on another part of the market.
Reuters - Soaring crude prices plus worries about the economy and the outlook for earnings are expected to hang over the stock market next week during the depth of the summer doldrums.
Reuters - Authorities have halted oil export flows from the main pipeline in southern Iraq after intelligence showed a rebel militia could strike infrastructure, an oil official said on Saturday.
AFP - Tearaway world oil prices, toppling records and straining wallets, present a new economic menace barely three months before the US presidential elections.
Reuters - Stocks ended slightly higher on Friday but stayed near lows for the year as oil prices surged past #36;46 a barrel, offsetting a positive outlook from computer maker Dell Inc. (DELL.O)
AP - Assets of the nation's retail money market mutual funds fell by #36;1.17 billion in the latest week to #36;849.98 trillion, the Investment Company Institute said Thursday.
USATODAY.com - Retail sales bounced back a bit in July, and new claims for jobless benefits fell last week, the government said Thursday, indicating the economy is improving from a midsummer slump.
Forbes.com - After earning a PH.D. in Sociology, Danny Bazil Riley started to work as the general manager at a commercial real estate firm at an annual base salary of #36;70,000. Soon after, a financial planner stopped by his desk to drop off brochures about insurance benefits available through his employer. But, at 32, "buying insurance was the furthest thing from my mind," says Riley.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Short-sellers, Wall Street's dwindling band of ultra-cynics, are seeing green again.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Soaring crude prices plus worries about the economy and the outlook for earnings are expected to hang over the stock market next week during the depth of the summer doldrums.
TEHRAN (Reuters) - OPEC can do nothing to douse scorching oil prices when markets are already oversupplied by 2.8 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude, Iran's OPEC governor said Saturday, warning that prices could fall sharply.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Non-OPEC oil exporters should consider increasing output to cool record crude prices, OPEC President Purnomo Yusgiantoro said on Sunday.
WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - The auction for Google Inc.'s highly anticipated initial public offering got off to a rocky start on Friday after the Web search company sidestepped a bullet from U.S. securities regulators.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar tumbled broadly on Friday after data showing a record U.S. trade deficit in June cast fresh doubts on the economy's recovery and its ability to draw foreign capital to fund the growing gap.
If you think you may need to help your elderly relatives with their finances, don't be shy about having the money talk -- soon.
The purchasing power of kids is a big part of why the back-to-school season has become such a huge marketing phenomenon.
There is little cause for celebration in the stock market these days, but investors in value-focused mutual funds have reason to feel a bit smug -- if only because they've lost less than the folks who stuck with growth.
The US trade deficit has exploded 19 to a record $55.8bn as oil costs drove imports higher, according to a latest figures.
Oil giant Shell could be bracing itself for a takeover attempt, possibly from French rival Total, a press report claims.
The bidding gets underway for Google's public offering, despite last-minute worries over an interview with its bosses in Playboy magazine.
Official figures show the 12-nation eurozone economy continues to grow, but there are warnings it may slow down later in the year.
Economic growth in Japan slows down as the country experiences a drop in domestic and corporate spending.
Interest rates are trimmed to 7.5 by the South African central bank, but the lack of warning hits the rand and surprises markets.
The cost of buying both new and second hand cars fell sharply over the past five years, a new survey has found.
South Korea's central bank cuts interest rates by a quarter percentage point to 3.5 in a bid to drive growth in the economy.
An auction of shares in Google, the web search engine which could be floated for as much as $36bn, takes place on Friday.
Hewlett-Packard shares fall after disappointing third-quarter profits, while the firm warns the final quarter will also fall short of expectations.
One of the oldest textile operators on the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius last week shut seven factories and cut 900 jobs.
Chad asks the IMF for a loan to pay for looking after more than 100,000 refugees from conflict-torn Darfur in western Sudan.
The company running the Japanese nuclear plant hit by a fatal accident is to close its reactors for safety checks.
Trevor Baylis, the veteran inventor famous for creating the Freeplay clockwork radio, is planning to float his company on the stock market.
Saudi Arabia says it is ready to push an extra 1.3 million barrels a day of oil into the market, to help reverse surging prices.
A group led by the UAE's Etisalat plans to spend $1bn (544m) on expansion after winning two mobile phone licences in Saudi Arabia.
Network Rail flies in specialist Indian engineers to work on the West Coast Mainline because of a UK skills shortage.
BEDFORD -- Scientists at NitroMed Inc. hope their experimental drugs will cure heart disease someday. But lately their focus has been on more mundane matters.
I've submitted my bid to buy shares of Google Inc. in the computer search company's giant auction-style initial public offering. That could turn out to be the good news or the bad news.
Massachusetts bargain hunters showed up in droves and shopped hard on yesterday's sales tax holiday, buying everything from treadmills and snow blowers to candles and chandeliers, and crediting the 5-percent tax break with bringing them into the stores.
E-mail is a victim of its own success. That's the conclusion of IBM Corp. researchers in Cambridge, who have spent nearly a decade conducting field tests at IBM and other companies about how employees work and use electronic mail. It's clear to them that e-mail has become the Internet's killer application.
Even a genius can mess up. Bill Gates was a brilliant technologist when he cofounded Microsoft , but as he guided it to greatness in both size and historical consequence, he blundered. He terrorized underlings with his temper and parceled out praise like Scrooge gave to charity. Only the lash inspired the necessary aggressiveness to beat the competition, he thought.
Target the abusers of legal weapons We can all share the outrage, expressed by columnist Steve Bailey (''Summer Sizzler, quot; Aug. 11), at the killings in the city's poor neighborhoods. But there's no need to share his ignorance. He argues for renewal of the so-called assault weapon ban, claiming that otherwise, ''UZIs and AK-47s could again be flooding the streets. quot; His ...
President Bush has been saying that the US economy has ''turned the corner. quot; Democratic presidential candidate Senator John F. Kerry, in the wake of this month's poor jobs report, quipped that it was more like a U-turn.
A Marlborough-based technology company is suing five former employees, including three senior managers, for allegedly conspiring against their employer while working on opening a competing business.
Central Square in Lynn should be looking a bit brighter. New sidewalks, curbs, fences, lights, landscaping, and road improvements are planned for the Gateway Artisan Block, a key area of the square, with $830,000 in state grant money given to Lynn last week.
Central Square in Lynn should be looking a bit brighter. New sidewalks, curbs, fences, lights, landscaping, and road improvements are planned for the Gateway Artisan Block, a key area of the square, with $830,000 in state grant money given to Lynn last week.
A lawsuit against Gary Winnick, the former chief of Global Crossing, refocuses attention on what Mr. Winnick knew about his company's finances as it imploded.
Russia is again emerging as a superpower - but the reason has less to do with nuclear weapons than with oil.
Kevin B. Rollins, the new chief executive of Dell, talks about Dell's transitory slip in customer service, and why he sees a broader technology recovery taking place.
With the country in need of cash and rich people dying to show off their wealth, Mr. Stein proposes a unique solution: having the government sell titles of nobility.
Quality Distribution is hammered after reporting a large loss for the second quarter.
If Hurricane Charley blows your house down, how can you make your insurance company pay?
The company's results show that it's not grim all over tech world. Just all of it that isn't Dell.
After a tough year, Detroit's troubled carmaker is back -- thanks to a maverick designer and a car that is dazzling the hip-hop crowd
Americans are spending more on tricking out the places where they swim. Here's a look at the new wave of accessories
In 1993 six geeks had a digital nightmare that changed the culture. It's about to get far creepier
Celebrity fashion is booming. These webpreneurs are bringing it to main street
No other recording artist can channel American middle-class tastes quite like Chip Davis and his best-selling band
Got a unique problem? Not to worry: you can find a financial planner for every specialized need
Today's customers are increasingly demanding, in Asia as elsewhere in the world. Henry Astorga describes the complex reality faced by today's marketers, which includes much higher expectations than we have been used to. Today's customers want performance, and they want it now!
Well, it's election time in the Republic of the Philippines, and that means the monkeys are rolling around in those political barrels, having as much fun as they can while laughing their heads off at the strange goings-on that characterize a democratic process loosely based on the American model but that de facto looks more like a Fellini movie crossed with a Tom and Jerry cartoon - column includes a useful election-year glossary!
Why General Motors dropped the Oldsmobile. The four brand paradoxes GM had to face - the name, the product, image re-positioning, and the consumer - all added up to a brand that had little hope of rebranding.
Although a smattering of Chinese, Filipinos, Japanese, Indians, Thais, and others may crow about seeing their kind sitting in prominent positions in corporations and organizations in the USA, these accomplishments become mere cultural high-fives and ritualistic chest-thumping goaded and impishly patronized by 'mainstream society' - the milder and gentler term for the white-dominated populace.
The Blues is alive and well in the Philippines, as evidenced by this appreciation of the Pinoy Blues band 'Lampano Alley', penned by columnist Clarence Henderson as a counterpoint to his usual economics, business, and culture fare.
Globalization does strange things to people. A day in the life of a Manila Philippines based business consultant - proving that you really CAN talk about Muddy Walters, bluegrass and work all on the same page...
The new APMF survey of the best Asian tourism destinations has just kicked off, but it's crowded at the top, with Chiang Mai in Thailand just leading from perennial favourites Hong Kong, Bangkok and Phuket in Thailand, and Bali in Indonesia. Be one of the first to vote and let us know your reasons.
One of our new categories in the APMF Sense of Place survey is for best Asian business city. After a couple of days, Singapore leads the pack, followed by Bangkok, Thailand and Hong Kong. Enter your vote and comments and make your views count. More new categories include best city for livability, and best tourism destinations.
I grew up in New York, where giant alligators -- sometimes more ornately described as albino alligators -- were rumored to roam the citys sewer systems. According to legend, vacationers picked up the tiny crocodilians in Florida, brought them home to New York, and eventually flushed the little buggers when they grew too big for the local concrete jungle.
Do most IT projects fail? Some point to the number of giant consultancies such as IBM Global Services, Capgemini, and Sapient, who feed off bad experiences encountered by enterprises. Sapient is a company founded on the realization that IT projects are not successful, says Sapient CTO Ben Gaucherin.
BEA Systems Inc. has hired the Computer Associates International Inc. executive responsible for CA's Unicenter line of enterprise management software to head BEA's product development group.
Autodesk this week unwrapped an updated version of its hosted project collaboration service targeted at the construction and manufacturing industries. Autodesk Buzzsaw lets multiple, dispersed project participants -- including building owners, developers, architects, construction teams, and facility managers -- share and manage data throughout the life of a project, according to Autodesk officials.
LONDON -- The U.K.'s National Health Service (NHS) has tapped IT researcher Gartner Inc. to provide market intelligence services as the health organization forges ahead with a mammoth, 5 billion ( $9.2 billion) project to upgrade its information technology infrastructure.
Even though Google's two founders gave an interview to Playboy magazine in the midst of its IPO filing, the SEC allowed the company's offering to go ahead. The boys filed the interview with the SEC and corrected mistakes in it.
An interview with Google's co-founders due out in the current issue of Playboy may delay the company's IPO. Securities regulations restrict what executives can say while preparing to sell stock for the first time.
A music retailer from the Netherlands beats Apple by launching a download service in Europe's latest market battleground. Also: Movie industry wrests agreement from defunct company.... Microsoft challenges Photoshop hellip;. and more.
Hewlett-Packard will pay $297 million for the British company. Also: TiVo goes all out to attract customers hellip;. Sprint offers service guarantees for business wireless subscribers hellip;. and more.
Verizon plans to offer a service that would act as a virtual switchboard operator, letting customers stay in touch at all times. The program would send phone calls, voicemails and e-mails wherever customers designate. By Elisa Batista.
A new Internet advertising forecast shows a slowdown in paid search listings in the next five years. Will the projection affect Google's prospects when it goes public?
Blogs are the hottest thing on the Net, but are they messing with traditional publishing principles? One of the most popular, Fark.com, is allegedly selling links. Is it the wave of the future? By Daniel Terdiman.
Reuters - The bulls and the bears are in this together, scratching their heads and wondering what's going to happen next.
Reuters - Some mutual funds invest in stocks; others invest in bonds. Now a new breed of funds is offering the chance to own fine art.
Reuters - Soaring crude prices plus worries about the economy and the outlook for earnings are expected to hang over the stock market this week during the depth of the summer doldrums.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The bulls and the bears are in this together, scratching their heads and wondering what's going to happen next.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Some mutual funds invest in stocks; others invest in bonds. Now a new breed of funds is offering the chance to own fine art.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Soaring crude prices plus worries about the economy and the outlook for earnings are expected to hang over the stock market this week during the depth of the summer doldrums.
(Clint Willis is a freelance writer who covers mutual funds for Reuters. Any opinions in the column are solely those of Mr. Willis.)
CARACAS, Venezuela (Reuters) - Oil exports by Venezuela have not been disturbed by the referendum on the rule of President Hugo Chavez, shipping sources said late Sunday.
Reuters - Oil exports by Venezuela have not been disturbed by the referendum on the rule of President Hugo Chavez, shipping sources said late Sunday.
Reuters - The dollar fell to a fresh four-week low versus the euro on Monday after a widening of the U.S. trade gap to record levels raised worries about capital inflows in the United States and a possible slowdown in the economy.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei fell more than one percent by mid-morning on Monday as investors stepped up selling of exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp. amid growing fears of the impact of surging oil prices on the global economy.
Pay for the Washington area's top executives rose significantly last year, reversing the downward trend that set in with the recession in 2001.
Thanks to the SEC, shareholders now get a long-term picture of how their stock is doing, which helps in evaluating executive pay.
For Jeffrey J. Steiner, chairman and chief executive of Fairchild Corp., nearly $2.5 million in salary last year was just the beginning.
Many of Corporate Washington's executives and board members have side deals with the companies they oversee.
Figuring out how much executives get paid can be like predicting the weather -- an inexact science.
Federal procurement spending in the Washington area rose last year at its highest rate since the 1980s, according to a study to be released today, creating tens of thousands of jobs and increasing economic growth disproportionately in Northern Virginia.
Reuters - Tokyo's Nikkei fell more than one percent by mid-morning on Monday as investors stepped up selling of exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp. amid growing fears of the impact of surging oil prices on the global economy.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei fell 1.66 percent by midday on Monday, extending losses into a third day as growing fears about the impact of surging oil prices on the global economy hit exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - United Auto Workers (UAW) said its members at Caterpillar Inc on Sunday voted to reject the construction equipment maker's contract proposal, the second time this year workers have voted against a Caterpillar contract offer.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - NYMEX crude oil futures &lt;CLc1&gt; hit a new record of $46.76 on Monday on worries about possible unrest and disruption to oil supply as Venezuelans voted in a referendum on whether to recall President Hugo Chavez.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - The main union at Caterpillar Inc. said its members voted on Sunday to reject the construction equipment maker's contract proposal, the second time this year the workers have voted against an offer.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - General Motors, the world's largest automaker, will start selling its first made-in-China Cadillacs in early 2005 in a market it expects eventually to account for a fifth of global sales of the luxury brand.
Wal-Mart, stung by criticism of its business tactics, is working to improve its image by supporting public broadcasting.
Looks like the Philippines, despite itself, has survived the election without excessive violence, major civil unrest, or untoward People Power eruptions. GMA finally has that elusive electoral mandate, and the air of uncertainty that pervaded Manila in the weeks leading up to the election has given way to (for some) an air of cautious optimism or (for others) resignation that nothing ever changes much in the Philippines and that the strong leadership and fundamental changes needed to save the country are long shots.
In a competition combining suspense and strategy, countless brave souls are hoping to buy a small piece of Google in an auction this week.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average fell 0.65 percent to a fresh three-month closing low on Monday as crude oil prices again hit record highs in Asian trading hours, clouding the outlook for the global economy.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Exporters led a fall in Asian shares on Monday as oil prices set new highs near $47 and data showing the U.S. trade deficit widened to a record raised fresh concern about the health of the world's largest economy.
Reuters - Exporters led a fall in Asian shares on Monday as oil prices set new highs near #36;47 and data showing the U.S. trade deficit widened to a record raised fresh concern about the health of the world's largest economy.
The Iranian parliament votes against key parts of a reform plan aimed at opening the economy to foreign investment.
GPS is invading recreational sports. Under clear skies, those signals beaming to earth from satellites can find you on a hilly running trail, in a kayak on the ocean, or on a green fairway where you're trying to fade a 230-yard drive into the wind.
What was the last sound your computer made? It may have emitted a chime when e-mail arrived, or a heraldic swish when you started up Windows.
When Inhibitex Inc. set the terms of its initial public offering in March, it thought it was being conservative, expecting shares to sell for $10 to $12 apiece.
BALTIMORE -- Manuel Llinas knew his career was at stake. The young scientist had just finished work on an eye-catching paper on the genome of a parasite that causes malaria. Now he and his lab director faced a critical decision: where to submit the article for publication.
The jury's still out on whether a computer can ever truly be intelligent, but there's no question that it can have multiple personalities. It's just a matter of software.
Reuters - Oil prices jumped to a new record high near #36;47 on Monday with traders on tenterhooks for the result of Venezuela's weekend referendum and Iraq's exports again disrupted by a Shi'ite uprising in the south.
US officials dismiss claims of tax evasion levelled at watchmaker Swatch by two former employees.
Small manufacturers in the UK are struggling in the face of soaring oil prices and higher interest rates, the CBI says.
Microsoft is stopping people getting hold of a key security update via net-based file- sharing systems.
The European Commission and President George Bush are in a war of words over subsidies given to aircraft makers Airbus and Boeing.
Reuters - Lowe's Cos. (LOW.N), the second-largest home improvement retailer behind Home Depot Inc. (HD.N), on Monday said quarterly profit rose, but trailed estimates.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks are seen opening little changed on Monday as crude prices remain high, but insurers may dip on worries about their potential liabilities after a hurricane struck Florida on Friday.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Lowe's Cos. &lt;LOW.N&gt;, the second-largest home improvement retailer behind Home Depot Inc. &lt;HD.N&gt;, on Monday said quarterly profit rose, but trailed estimates.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices simmered near fresh highs Monday even though early reports of victory for Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez in a referendum on his rule eased fears that unrest could upset the country's oil exports.
British Airways workers plan to strike for 24 hours during the August Bank Holiday weekend unless a pay row is settled, the GMB union said.
AP - Home improvement retailer Lowe's Cos. reported Monday that a robust housing market drove second-quarter earnings higher year-over-year, but results failed to meet Wall Street expectations.
Workers at Sri Lanka's main oil company end a two-day strike, held in protest at government plans to sell more of the company.
Reuters - Kmart Holding Corp. (KMRT.O) on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit as cost cuts made up for slumping sales, and its cash pile grew to about #36;2.6 billion.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Kmart Holding Corp. &lt;KMRT.O&gt; on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit as cost cuts made up for slumping sales, and its cash pile grew to about $2.6 billion.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street is seen opening little changed on Monday as crude prices remain high, but insurers may dip on worries about their potential liabilities after a hurricane struck Florida on Friday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Sysco Corp. &lt;SYY.N&gt;, the largest U.S. distributor of food to restaurants and hospitals, on Monday said quarterly profit rose as an extra week in the period and acquisitions helped offset the effects of higher food prices.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Lowe's Cos. &lt;LOW.N&gt;, the No. 2 home improvement retailer behind Home Depot Inc., on Monday reported an 18 percent increase in second-quarter profit, but results trailed estimates as sales weakened in June.
AP - Discount retailer Kmart Holding Corp. reported Monday that the company swung to a profit in the second quarter, but same-store sales were still in decline.
Reuters - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT.N) on Monday maintained its August sales forecast and said demand was particularly strong in the U.S. Southeast last week as people stocked up on duct tape, rope and water in preparation for Hurricane Charley.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Kmart Holding Corp. &lt;KMRT.O&gt; on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit as cost cuts made up for slumping sales, and its cash pile grew to about $2.6 billion.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Allstate Corp. &lt;ALL.N&gt;, the No. 2 U.S. home and auto insurer, on Monday said potential losses stemming from Hurricane Charley could hurt its current results.
AFP - The Hungarian central bank cut its benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points from 11.5 percent to 11.0 percent, the bank said in a statement posted on its website.
Reuters - Gateway Inc. (GTW.N), the computer maker that recently shuttered its chain of 188 stores, will begin selling its desktops at CompUSA Inc.'s outlets later this week, the two companies said on Monday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Gateway Inc. &lt;GTW.N&gt;, the computer maker that recently shuttered its chain of 188 stores, will begin selling its desktops at CompUSA Inc.'s outlets later this week, the two companies said on Monday.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Kmart Holding Corp. &lt;KMRT.O&gt; on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit despite slumping sales as it cut jobs and reduced advertising and discounts, boosting its cash pile to $2.6 billion.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Rural hospital operator LifePoint Hospitals Inc. &lt;LPNT.O&gt; has agreed to acquire rival Province Healthcare Co. &lt;PRV.N&gt; for $1.125 billion in cash and stock to broaden its geographic reach, the companies said on Monday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street is set to open little changed on Monday as crude prices remain near their record highs, but insurers may slip on worries about their potential liabilities after a hurricane struck Florida on Friday.
Sysco's fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 16 percent due to an extra week in the quarter, customer-service initiatives and operating efficiency.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks opened little changed on Monday as crude prices remain near their record highs, but early reports of victory for the Venezuelan president in a referendum on his rule eased fears about the country's oil exports.
Indonesia calls on the International Monetary Fund to help reschedule its debts, as figures reveal a slowdown in economic growth.
Oil prices fell 23 cents to $46.35 a barrel after Venezuelan Hugo Chavez won a recall referendum, appeasing worried energy markets.
Amusement park operators have produced volatile results, but this company has stood the test of time.
Reuters - U.S. insurers on Monday predicted that Hurricane Charley could be the most costly U.S. storm since Andrew in 1992, with Florida officials initially estimating economic losses at #36;15 billion.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Kmart Holding Corp. &lt;KMRT.O&gt; on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit despite slumping sales as it cut jobs and reduced advertising and discounts, boosting its cash pile to $2.6 billion.
TORONTO (Reuters) - Electronic publisher Thomson Corp. &lt;TOC.TO&gt; said on Monday it will buy test provider Capstar from Educational Testing Service, the latest in a string of acquisitions designed to flesh out its product offerings.
Lowe's reported a 17.9 percent increase in net income during its second quarter, but results missed Wall Street expectations.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Lowe's Cos. &lt;LOW.N&gt;, the No. 2 home improvement retailer behind Home Depot Inc., on Monday reported an 18 percent increase in second-quarter profit, but results trailed estimates as sales weakened in June.
Reuters - Kmart Holding Corp. (KMRT.O) on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit despite slumping sales as it cut jobs and reduced advertising and discounts, boosting its cash pile to #36;2.6 billion.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices eased from new record highs on Monday as victory for Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez in a referendum on his rule eased fears that unrest could upset the country's oil exports.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks gained on Monday as oil prices dipped after reports of victory for the Venezuelan president in a referendum on his rule eased fears about the country's oil exports.
The Motley Fool - You've got a money question, and the guy in the next cubicle hasn't a clue how to answer. You need trustworthy information. But where to start?
LONDON/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - DaimlerChrysler said it raised more than $900 million by selling its 10.5 percent stake in Hyundai Motor Co. Ltd. on Monday, a remnant of its dented ambitions to build a global carmaking empire.
Web phone service is exploding. And maverick Jeffrey Citron lit the industry's fuse
You can train Bose's new system to play songs you like. Is it worth the price?
The Days, owned by its advertisers, may boost ABC'S bottom line. But will they control content?
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks gained on Monday, getting a boost from lower oil prices after news the Venezuelan president survived a recall eased fears about the country's oil exports.
4Kids Entertainment got karate-chopped last week. Can it get back up off the mat?
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of mobile home manufacturers soared on Monday on hopes of increased business after the destruction Hurricane Charley wreaked in Florida over the weekend, an analyst said.
Reuters - U.S. stocks gained on Monday, getting a boost from lower oil prices after news the Venezuelan president survived a recall eased fears about the country's oil exports.
Reuters - Intelsat Ltd., the world's second-largest satellite operator, said on Monday it agreed to be bought by a consortium of four private equity firms for #36;5 billion, including assumption of #36;2 billion of debt.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Intelsat Ltd., the world's second-largest satellite operator, said on Monday it agreed to be bought by a consortium of four private equity firms for $5 billion, including assumption of $2 billion of debt.
The online postage service offers a chance to put personal pictures on official stamps.
The company saw an improvement in its trades, but will this market be kind to the brokerages?
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks climbed on Monday, getting a boost from lower oil prices after Venezuela's president declared he had survived a recall referendum, easing fears about the country's oil exports.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Kmart Holdings Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KMRT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;KMRT.O&lt;/A&gt; on Monday reported its third consecutive quarterly profit and boosted its cash pile to $2.6 billion as it cut spending on advertising and discounts, sending its stock up 14 percent.
European antitrust regulators extend their review of Microsoft-Time Warner deal. Also: Gateway plans to sell desktops at CompUSA hellip;. Vodafone's Japanese unit headhunts an executive from rival NTT DoCoMo hellip;. and more.
Investors are dumping tech stocks with abandon. As for Overland Storage, it is a buyer.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Lowe's Cos. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LOW.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LOW.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's No. 2 home improvement retailer, on Monday reported an 18 percent increase in second-quarter profit and said earnings for the rest of the year would top current estimates.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of top toy maker Mattel Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MAT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MAT.N&lt;/A&gt; and rival Hasbro Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HAS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HAS.N&lt;/A&gt; fell to their lowest levels at least 14 months on Monday after a downgrade by Lehman Brothers, which cited deteriorating industry conditions.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks rebounded on Monday as oil prices retreated from their highs, while upbeat earnings announcements from retailers fueled the improved sentiment.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar gained against the euro on Monday after a report on flows into U.S. assets showed enough of a rise in foreign investments to offset the current account gap for the month.
CARACAS, Venezuela (Reuters) - Venezuela's left-wing President Hugo Chavez won a recall referendum on his divisive rule in a vote backed on Monday by international observers who found no "element of fraud."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Halliburton said on Monday the U.S. Army had decided to give the company more time to resolve a billing dispute before withholding payment of up to 15 percent of the company's bills in Iraq and Kuwait.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Media company Belo Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BLC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BLC.N&lt;/A&gt; on Monday said it would refund $23 million to advertisers because of a circulation scandal at its Dallas Morning News newspaper, resulting in a charge against earnings in the current quarter.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Rural hospital operator LifePoint Hospitals Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LPNT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LPNT.O&lt;/A&gt; agreed to buy rival Province Healthcare Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PRV.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PRV.N&lt;/A&gt; for $1.03 billion in cash and stock to broaden its geographic reach, the companies said on Monday.
Reuters - Venezuela's left-wing President Hugo Chavez won a recall referendum on his divisive rule in a vote backed on Monday by international observers who found no "element of fraud."
PARIS (Reuters) - Four private equity firms plan to buy Bermuda-based Intelsat for about $3 billion, the world's second-largest satellite operator said on Monday.
Pepsi pushes a blue version of Mountain Dew only at Taco Bell. Is this a winning strategy?
Post staff writer David Hilzenrath and editor Mike Flagg discuss which local executives have the sweetest deals.
Lately, the company's retail operation has been lagging behind sales of its locations.
PARIS (Reuters) - Intelsat is to be sold to four private equity firms for $3.1 billion, the world's second-largest satellite operator said on Monday.
Halliburton said Monday the U.S. Army had decided to give the company more time to resolve a billing dispute before withholding payment of up to 15 percent of the company's bills in Iraq and Kuwait.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Sysco Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SYY.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;SYY.N&lt;/A&gt;, the largest U.S. distributor of food to restaurants and hospitals, on Monday said quarterly profit rose as an extra week in the period and cost control measures helped offset the higher food prices that were slowing demand.
Reuters - U.S. Treasury debt prices fell on Monday as investors focused on a pullback in oil prices from record highs and largely shrugged off dismal results from a regional manufacturing survey.
Novell brings updated kernel to enterprise LinuxTimed to coincide with this years linuxworld expo, Novell has announced SuSE Linux Enterprise Server 9. Though Novells SuSE division has marketed a commercial Linux distribution based on the v2.6 kernel, this is the first to be granted the more stringently qualified enterprise designation. Besides kernel-level improvements and the usual collection of updated software packages, this release offers improved fail-over, clustering, and resource management and comes bundled with Novells ZENworks configuration management software for Linux. The company claims that its AutoBuild system allows it to offer identical configurations for a variety of platforms, including x86 (both 32- and 64-bit), Itanium, IBM POWER, and IBM mainframes. Free evaluation downloads are available now and support subscriptions start at $349 per dual-CPU server.SuSE Linux Enterprise Server 9, Novell/SuSE
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Insurers are braced to pay out about $7 billion in claims for devastation caused by Hurricane Charley, making the storm the second most costly after Hurricane Andrew, industry and government officials said on Monday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks rebounded on Monday as worry about oil prices crunching corporate profits eased when crude retreated from record highs.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc. appeared set to start trading on Nasdaq on Wednesday, after the Web's No. 1 search engine asked regulators on Monday for final approval to price its closely watched initial public offering.
Reuters - Google Inc. appeared set to start trading on Nasdaq on Wednesday, after the Web's No. 1 search engine asked regulators on Monday for final approval to price its closely watched initial public offering.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Lowe's Cos. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LOW.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LOW.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's second largest home improvement retailer, on Monday reported an 18 percent increase in second-quarter net income and said earnings for the rest of the year would top analysts' estimates.
CHICAGO/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Options traders have been building bullish positions in PeopleSoft Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PSFT.O&lt;/A&gt; as investors bet a federal judge will approve Oracle Corp.'s hostile takeover bid of the business software maker, traders said on Monday.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KKD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;KKD.N&lt;/A&gt; said on Monday that its chief operating officer is leaving the company for another job, the latest setback for a company that is trying to recover from sluggish sales and an accounting probe.
Google's planned flotation moves another step closer after the company and its underwriters ask the SEC to declare its registration effective.
Crude oil for delivery next month settled at $46.05 a barrel, down 53 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange after briefly trading at a new high of $46.91 early in the day.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc. appeared set to start trading on the Nasdaq on Wednesday, after the Web's No. 1 search engine asked regulators for final approval to price its closely watched initial public offering.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Nortel Networks Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.N&lt;/A&gt; &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.TO&lt;/A&gt; said on Monday the Royal Canadian Mounted Police told the company it will begin a criminal investigation into Nortel's financial accounting.
Brazil stands to lose billions of dollars in trade benefits from the United States if it does not prove by the end of September that it is making progress in combating copyright piracy.
In an effort to conserve cash, financially ailing US Airways Group Inc. said Monday that it plans to ask the Internal Revenue Service for permission to delay payments into the pension plans of two of its employee groups.
For a four-year investment estimated at $65 million, McDonald's has been designated the Official Restaurant of the 2004 Olympic Games.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Gains in banks and exporters helped lift Tokyo's Nikkei 0.84 percent by midday on Tuesday as a fall in crude oil prices and a rebound in U.S. stocks led buyers to pick up shares hit by the index's recent sharp losses.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Gains in banks and exporters helped lift Tokyo's Nikkei average 0.84 percent by midday on Tuesday as a fall in crude oil prices and a rebound in U.S. stocks led buyers to pick up shares hit by the index's recent sharp losses.
A Republican running for Congress has received heavy donations from industry because of expectations over posts she may receive if she loses and President Bush wins.
Viagra, which has long taken a staid marketing approach, will join its fast-growing competitors in taking a sly, devil-may-care tack.
The U.S. Army had granted Halliburton a third extension to substantiate its costs in Iraq and Kuwait.
A Republican running for Congress has received heavy donations from industry because of expectations over posts she may receive if she loses and President Bush wins.
A pull back in oil prices and upbeat outlooks from Wal-Mart and Lowe's prompted new bargain-hunting on Wall Street today.
LifePoint Hospitals has agreed to acquire rival Province Healthcare for $1.125 billion in cash and stock to broaden its geographic reach.
British Airways is due to hold important talks with union bosses in a bid to avoid industrial action.
Google might close the bidding in its auction-style initial public offering late Tuesday, moving it one step away from becoming a publicly traded company.
People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co.'s president and chief operating officer, Steven Heyer, will leave the company on Sept. 1 after missing out on the top job in May, the Wall Street Journal said on Tuesday, citing an internal memo.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar struggled to extend gains against the euro in rangebound trade on Tuesday after recovering from multi-week lows on bigger-than-expected capital inflows into the United States.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices fell $1 below record highs on Tuesday as fears over supply disruptions in Venezuela eased after President Hugo Chavez won a vote on his rule.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar barely moved on Tuesday, struggling to sustain a modest bounce from multi-week lows against the euro made on bigger-than-expected capital inflows to the United States.
Reuters - Oil prices fell #36;1 below record highs on Tuesday as fears over supply disruptions in Venezuela eased after President Hugo Chavez won a vote on his rule.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Japanese shares rebounded from three-month lows on Tuesday but stubbornly high oil prices and concern over their impact on corporate earnings capped gains.
Geico Corp., the nation's fifth-largest auto insurer, started selling policies in New Jersey yesterday for the first time in 28 years, leaving Massachusetts as the lone state where the company won't do business.
They served up a giant Bank of America sheet cake, festooned the bank branch with balloons, and dispatched smiling greeters to welcome customers in upstate New York yesterday, as the first FleetBoston Financial Corp. branches formally switched to Bank of America.
Microsoft Corp. has put the finishing touches on one of its biggest software overhauls ever after conceding that its Windows XP operating system -- which runs as many as 300 million computers worldwide -- is susceptible to security breaches.
Correction: Because of a reporting error, an article in yesterday's Nation pages incorrectly described a Bush campaign ad's accusation about John Kerry's role on the Senate Intelligence Committee in the 1990s. The ad accuses Kerry of having missed three-quarters of the committee's public hearings.
Federal regulators granted Citizens Financial Group approval for its biggest acquisition to date, Charter One Financial Inc. of Ohio. The Federal Reserve Board said the pending merger likely would have a minimal impact on competition even in markets where the two banks overlap. When the $10.5 billion acquisition is complete, Citizens will be the 11th-biggest bank in the nation ranked ...
NEW YORK -- A drop in oil prices and upbeat outlooks from Wal-Mart and Lowe's helped send stocks sharply higher yesterday, with the swing exaggerated by thin late summer trading. The Dow Jones industrials surged nearly 130 points.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. -- Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc.'s John Tate quit as chief operating officer amid a government probe of the chain's accounting and earnings forecasts.
WASHINGTON -- Federal drug regulators are using a quot;lighter touch quot; in their efforts to stop a growing number of cities and states from importing prescription drugs from Canada, and the City of Boston is taking advantage of that new posture.
NEW YORK -- Northeast Utilities , UIL Holdings Corp. , and New England's grid operator have proposed changes to a planned power line in Southwest Connecticut that would increase costs by more than 40 percent.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- A federal judge has scheduled jury selection in the fraud trial of fired HealthSouth Corp. chief executive Richard Scrushy to begin Jan. 5.
AFP - Terrorism poses the biggest short-term threat to the US economy, a panel of top business economists said in a survey.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Motorola Inc., the world's second-largest mobile phone maker, said on Tuesday it expects to sustain strong sales growth in the second half of 2004 thanks to new handsets with innovative designs and features.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices eased on Tuesday as fears of supply disruptions in Venezuela and Russia receded following a convincing referendum victory for Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and after Russia's YUKOS said it had received an assurance on September exports.
Reuters - Home Depot Inc. (HD.N), the world's largest home improvement retailer, on Tuesday said quarterly profit rose, topping estimates, as technology upgrades and other store improvements helped boost sales.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HD.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's largest home improvement retailer, on Tuesday said quarterly profit rose, topping estimates, as technology upgrades and other store improvements helped boost sales.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar hovered near a one-month low against the euro on Tuesday as investors awaited U.S. inflation data later in the day for clues on the future path of interest rates.
Russian oil giant Yukos is to ask a Moscow court for more time to pay its tax bill.
A total of 140,000 members at union Unifi are absorbed into Amicus to create a 'super-union' for UK finance workers.
Reuters - The dollar hovered near a one-month low against the euro on Tuesday as investors awaited U.S. inflation data later in the day for clues on the future path of interest rates.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HD.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday reported a 19 percent rise in second-quarter profit, topping estimates, as technology upgrades and other store improvements helped boost sales.
Reuters - Staples Inc. (SPLS.O), the top U.S. office products retailer, on Tuesday reported a 39 percent jump in quarterly profit as a weaker dollar boosted results abroad and initial back-to-school demand drove sales.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares in Home Depot Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HD.N&lt;/A&gt; rose before the opening bell on Tuesday after the world's largest home improvement retailer reported a 19 percent rise in second-quarter profit.
Google has signaled that its share auction is nearly complete, asking the Securities and Exchange Commission for approval to begin selling 25.7 million shares of stock starting late this afternoon.
BRENTWOOD, Tenn. -- LifePoint Hospitals Inc. , an operator of acute care facilities in rural areas, outlined a deal yesterday to buy rival Province Healthcare Co. for about $1.1 billion in cash and stock.
Reuters - Department store operator J.C. Penney Co. Inc. (JCP.N) on Tuesday posted a second-quarter profit, reversing a year-earlier loss, helped by inventory controls and strong department store sales.
AFP - Investor confidence in Germany has declined more sharply than anticipated, a major economic think tank said, as high oil prices put a damper on hopes of a continuation of the nascent recovery.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Department store operator J.C. Penney Co. Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JCP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JCP.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday posted a second-quarter profit, reversing a year-earlier loss, helped by inventory controls and strong department store sales.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Staples Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SPLS.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;SPLS.O&lt;/A&gt;, the top U.S. office products retailer, on Tuesday reported a 39 percent jump in quarterly profit, raised its full-year forecast and said it plans to enter the fast-growing Chinese market.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Cosmetics manufacturer Estee Lauder Cos. Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=EL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;EL.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday posted a bigger quarterly profit, bolstered by sales in Europe and an improving U.S. retail market.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - BJ's Wholesale Club Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BJ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BJ.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday posted higher quarterly profit as soaring gasoline prices and strong demand for food boosted sales.
Industrial production in the eurozone falls by 0.4 in June from May, with Germany registering the biggest fall.
Eastern Germany sees more mass protests over welfare cuts, with smaller rallies in western cities.
Reuters - Saks Inc. (SKS.N) on Tuesday posted a wider quarterly loss as poor sales at its lower-priced department stores outweighed a strong performance at its Saks Fifth Avenue luxury chain.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months as a sharp run up in energy costs reversed, the government said on Tuesday in a report showing underlying inflation pressures largely in check.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Housing starts rebounded sharply in July, making up almost all the ground lost in a June slump by posting their largest monthly percentage gain since September 2002, a report from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Home Depot Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HD.N&lt;/A&gt; rose before the opening bell on Tuesday after the world's largest home improvement retailer reported a 19 percent rise in second-quarter profit.
Reuters - U.S. consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months as a sharp run up in energy costs reversed, the government said on Tuesday in a report showing underlying inflation pressures largely in check.
Reuters - Housing starts rebounded sharply in July, making up almost all the ground lost in a June slump by posting their largest monthly percentage gain since September 2002, a report from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed.
Consumer prices, which have been buffeted this year by soaring energy costs, fell by 0.1 percent in July as gasoline costs posted their biggest decline in eight months, the government reported Tuesday.
Reuters - Auto retailer CarMax Inc. (KMX.N) on Tuesday said it was cutting its second-quarter earnings forecast due to slower-than-expected used-car sales.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were set to open higher on Tuesday after an economic report showed U.S. consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months and another report said U.S. housing starts rebounded sharply in July.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Treasury debt prices firmed on Tuesday after a key reading of U.S. inflation proved softer-than-expected, a relief to investors in fixed-income debt.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Hurricanes Bonnie and Charley slowed U.S. chain store sales growth in the latest week, a report said on Tuesday.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Deere Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DE.N&lt;/A&gt;, one of the world's largest farm equipment makers, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings jumped sharply, driven in part by strength in its agricultural and construction equipment businesses.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices eased on Tuesday as fears of supply disruptions receded following a convincing referendum victory in Venezuela for President Hugo Chavez and after Russia's YUKOS said it had received a government assurance on September exports.
Consumer prices fell by 0.1 percent in July as gasoline costs posted their biggest decline in eight months, the government reported today.
Home Depot reported a jump in second-quarter profit on record sales as it benefited from strong performance in stores open at least a year.
Reuters - U.S. consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months as a sharp run up in energy costs reversed, the government said on Tuesday in a report showing inflation pressures largely in check.
Reuters - Deere Co. (DE.N), one of the world's largest farm equipment makers, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings jumped sharply, driven in part by strength in its agricultural and construction equipment businesses.
AP - BJ's Wholesale Club Inc. said Tuesday that sales growth boosted second-quarter earnings 25 percent, and the bulk retailer disclosed it faces #36;16 million in claims over the theft of some of its customers' credit and debit card information.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Time is running out for prospective investors to submit their offers to buy shares of Google Inc, the Web's No. 1 search company.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. industrial output advanced in July, as American factories operated at their highest capacity in more than three years, a Federal Reserve report on Tuesday showed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks opened higher on Tuesday after two separate reports showed inflationary pressure was held in check in July and U.S. housing starts rebounded sharply in the same month.
Reuters - U.S. industrial output advanced in July, as American factories operated at their highest capacity in more than three years, a Federal Reserve report on Tuesday showed.
Reuters - Time is running out for prospective investors to submit their offers to buy shares of Google Inc, the Web's No. 1 search company.
DETROIT (Reuters) - Auto retailer CarMax Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KMX.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;KMX.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday cut its second-quarter earnings forecast due to slower-than-expected used-car sales, sparking a 3.7 percent drop in its shares.
The Home Depot Inc. reported a nearly 19 percent jump in second-quarter profit on record sales as it benefited from strong performance in stores open at least a year. It also raised its earnings outlook for the year.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Deere Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DE.N&lt;/A&gt;, one of the world's largest farm equipment makers, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings jumped sharply, driven in part by strength in its agricultural and construction equipment businesses.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar posted gains against the euro on Tuesday, digesting a slew of U.S. economic data that failed to substantially alter expectations for Federal Reserve interest rate hikes.
Rising oil prices are expected to hit China's growth rate this year.
US consumer prices fell by 0.1 in July, the first fall this year, reducing the chances of a September interest rate rise.
Reuters - Cosmetics manufacturer Estee Lauder Cos. Inc. (EL.N) on Tuesday said quarterly net income jumped 51 percent, bolstered by new product sales and an improving U.S. retail market.
Reuters - U.S. Treasury debt made moderate gains on Tuesday after a key reading of U.S. inflation proved softer than expected, a relief to investors in fixed-income debt.
AFP - American industry lifted output moderately in July, the Federal Reserve said, a sign the economy may be finding its feet after a mid-summer slip.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks gained on Tuesday after two separate economic reports showed inflationary pressure was held in check in July and U.S. housing starts rebounded sharply in the same month.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Time is running out for prospective investors to submit their offers to buy shares of Google Inc, the Web #39;s No. 1 search company.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Crude oil futures fell for a second day after a Russian state railway official said shipments of Yukos Oil Co. oil would continue and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez won a recall vote.
RealNetworks CEO Rob Glaser has survived longer than most in the Internet business, largely by pulling rabbits out of his hat when the competition least expects it.
The Property Casualty Insurers Association of America (PCI), the group from which member companies write about a third of Florida homeowners insurance, said initial reports from claims adjusters indicate damage from Hurricane Charley, while extensive, was ...
A drop in consumer prices and a decline in crude oil futures Tuesday allowed investors to put aside worries about inflation, at least for the short term, and they sent stocks modestly higher.
The company that broadcast the moon landings in 1969 and kept the quot;Hotline quot; open between the White House and the Kremlin during the Seventies has been sold for $5bn (2.7bn), including $2bn of debt, to a private equity ...
S Airways, facing a cash shortage as it tries to avoid another bankruptcy filing, said yesterday that it would seek government permission to stretch out $67.5 million in contributions it owes to the pensions of its mechanics and ...
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Housing starts rebounded sharply in July, making up almost all the ground lost in a June slump by posting their largest monthly percentage gain since September 2002, a report from the Commerce Department on Tuesday showed.
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Mills Corp. (MLS.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , a real estate investment trust, on Tuesday said it agreed to buy a 50 percent managing stake in nine regional malls from General Motors Corp. #39;s (GM.N: Quote, Profile, Research) ...
The Office of Fair Trading has set the clock ticking on the process that could see the Barclay brothers #39; deal to buy the Daily Telegraph reviewed by competition watchdogs.
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- Institutional broker Cantor Fitzgerald said Tuesday it #39;s spinning off its fixed-income voice brokerage operations into a new partnership, and will focus on expansion of its remaining institutional fixed-income and equity business.
Singapore real estate investment trusts such as CapitaMall Trust may outperform the market this year as acquisitions of shopping malls and industrial buildings bolster rental income.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Motorola Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MOT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MOT.N&lt;/A&gt;, the second-largest mobile phone maker, said on Tuesday it expects to sustain strong sales growth in the second half of 2004 on new handsets, sparking a 4.7 percent jump in its shares.
On Monday, Google requested final approval from federal regulators to begin trading their stock. Google has asked that the SEC declare its registration statement effective as of 1 pm pacific time today. Google ...
An unusual alliance of US and European private equity firms has won the auction to buy Bermuda-based satellite business Intelsat. Europeans Apax and Permira and US firms Apollo Management and Madison Dearborn will pay $3bn for the business and assume $2bn ...
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HD.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday reported a 19 percent rise in second-quarter profit, topping estimates, as store renovations and efforts to improve service drove higher average sales in every category.
Shoppers spend more, giving the company yet another quarter of sales growth and even better earnings.
Legg Mason's Mary Chris Gay knows when to pay for growth and when to sell a stock.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 (Xinhuanet) -- US consumer prices declined marginally in July, posting the first fall since last November, the Labor Department said in a report released Tuesday.
The Westwood company is spending $48 million to acquire Boomerang Tracking Inc., a Montreal company that operates a stolen car recovery system in Canada.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - US industrial output advanced in July, as American factories operated at their highest capacity in more than three years, a Federal Reserve report on Tuesday showed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks rose on Tuesday, getting a boost from some strong retail earnings, lower oil prices and two separate economic reports that showed inflationary pressure was held in check and U.S. housing starts rebounded sharply in July.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Russia #39;s state-owned railway, the shipper of a fourth of OAO Yukos Oil Co. #39;s crude oil, said it will guarantee exports, the clearest sign yet President Vladimir Putin wants to ensure supplies to world markets.
SURGING demand in heavy construction should outweigh any downturn in new home building, according to OneSteel and Boral.
Reuters - Outback Steakhouse Inc. (OSI.N) on Tuesday said it lost about 130 operating days and up to #36;2 million in revenue because it had to close some restaurants in the South due to Hurricane Charley.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Outback Steakhouse Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=OSI.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;OSI.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday said it lost about 130 operating days and up to $2 million in revenue because it had to close some restaurants in the South due to Hurricane Charley.
Google has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to make its registration statement effective at 4 pm Eastern time on Tuesday. If the company follows the usual IPO pattern, the share price would be set and the offering ...
Halliburton Co. on Tuesday blamed politics for a US Army decision to not grant the company more time to resolve a billing dispute in which the Pentagon contends the company did not adequately account for some $1.8 billion of work done in the Middle East.
Manhattan-based financial services firm Cantor Fitzgerald said Tuesday it is spinning off its inter-dealer voice brokerage business and will concentrate on sales and trading, investment banking, asset management and other institutional services.
Washington, DC, Aug. 17 (UPI) -- The US Commerce Department said Tuesday a dip in mortgage rates helped boost home-building activity in July 8.3 percent after falling 7.7 percent in June.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) -- Fired HealthSouth chief executive Richard Scrushy will go on trial January 5th.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were higher on Tuesday, boosted by strong earnings from Home Depot Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HD.N&lt;/A&gt; and two separate economic reports that showed inflationary pressure was held in check and U.S. housing starts rebounded sharply in July.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIF. - Google?s initial public offering could hit the Nasdaq Stock Market as early as Wednesday if US securities regulators let the Internet search engine close its auction on Tuesday.
NEW YORK, August 17 (New Ratings) The US consumer prices declined for the first time in the past eight months in July this year, driven by the reduced gasoline, clothing and transportation costs during the month.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 (Xinhuanet) -- Output at US factories, mines and utilities rose by 0.4 percent in July, nearly recovering from a 0.5 percent plunge in June, the Federal Reserve said on Tuesday.
WASHINGTON (CBS.MW) -- Construction of new homes recovered in July, as US homebuilders started homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.978 million, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices rose on Tuesday on cheery economic data showing that inflationary pressure was held in check in July and ahead of weekly inventory due out on Wednesday forecast to show a draw in crude stocks
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Illinois residents will soon gain access to lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, sidestepping U.S. regulators' objections to imported drugs, Gov. Rod Blagojevich said on Tuesday.
One of Nepal's top hotels and a number of other companies close for business after threats from Maoist rebels.
A Russian court today rejected the beleaguered oil company's appeal to suspend government efforts to collect $3.4 billion in back taxes.
The U.S. Army plans to withhold payment on 15 percent of future invoices of Halliburton's logistics deal in Iraq due to an ongoing billing dispute.
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- Google #39;s long-awaited kickoff as the largest Internet IPO of all time is likely to take place as early as Wednesday after the controversial Dutch auction process wraps up after the bell.
The giant Russian oil firm Yukos has failed to convince a Moscow arbitration court to suspend the sale by bailiffs of its Siberian subsidiary to satisfy a $3.4 billion tax debt.
WASHINGTON (AP) - US consumer prices eased down by 0.1 per cent in July as gasoline prices dropped, while factory output rose and home construction rebounded, offering hope the economy has escaped its early-summer quot;soft patch. quot; ...
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Department store operator JC Penney Co. Inc. (JCP.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday posted a quarterly operating profit, reversing a year-earlier loss, on inventory controls and strong sales of jeans, home furnishings and career ...
TORONTO - Shares of Nortel Networks dipped on the TSX in the wake of news the RCMP has launched an investigation into accounting practices at the telecommunications company.
Virginia-based REIT will pay $1B, before transaction costs, for a 50 stake in the properties. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Real estate investment trust Mills Corp. said Tuesday it will buy a 50 percent managing stake in nine regional malls from a General Motors ...
Shares of Motorola (MOT:NYSE - news - research) rose Tuesday after Geoffrey Frost, senior vice president of Motorola #39;s mobile phone division, told Reuters that the company feels quot;very good quot; about sales growth during the second half of the year.
Switzerland #39;s struggling national airline reported a second-quarter profit of 45 million Swiss francs ( $35.6 million) Tuesday, although its figures were boosted by a legal settlement in France.
WASHINGTON, Aug 17 (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday the near-term economic outlook for the Czech Republic, a European Union newcomer, was favorable with growth expected to strengthen.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices rose close to a record high on Tuesday on U.S. economic data showing that inflationary pressure was held in check in July and ahead of weekly inventory due out on Wednesday and forecast to show a draw in crude stocks.
DETROIT (Reuters) - A Canadian law firm on Tuesday said it had filed a lawsuit against Ford Motor Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=F.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;F.N&lt;/A&gt; over what it claims are defective door latches on about 400,000 of the automaker's popular pickup trucks and SUVs.
LNM Group, the steel giant headed by Indian tycoon Lakshmi Mittal, snaps up a Bosnian steelmaker in a $280m deal.
The company asks federal regulators to approve the paperwork required for its stock sale. Also: Yahoo starts selling domain names hellip;. Canadian officials investigate Nortel Networks hellip;. and more.
Insurance holding company WR Berkley Corp. said Tuesday that it does not expect its losses from damage caused by Hurricane Charley last week to exceed $5 million.
In a sign that Google #39;s initial public offering is imminent, the company has asked federal regulators to give final approval to the paperwork required for its stock sale.
CHICAGO, Aug 17 (Reuters) - BJ #39;s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday said credit card issuers want the retailer to reimburse them for up to $16 million in fraudulent credit card charges and other costs stemming from a possible ...
NEW YORK, August 17 (New Ratings) Analysts at Merrill Lynch say that a recent survey of global fund managers demonstrates continuously increasing negative sentiments towards the US stock market trends.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Chiron Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CHIR.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;CHIR.O&lt;/A&gt; has won a contract to develop a human vaccine against a strain of bird flu that can infect people and "has the potential to trigger a modern-day pandemic," the U.S. government said on Tuesday.
TJX Cos. Inc. #39;s second-quarter earnings fell 4 percent, reflecting higher markdowns on merchandise due to softer sales trends.
Dulles, VA, Aug. 17 (UPI) -- US Airways is seeking permission to delay pension contributions of $67.5 million, so it can keep operating.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of the two largest Treasury bond brokers, will split off its original business of person-to-person sales to focus on more profitable activities such as institutional equity sales and trading.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Deere Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DE.N&lt;/A&gt;, one of the world's largest farm equipment makers, said on Tuesday that quarterly earnings jumped 62 percent, driven by strength in its agricultural and construction equipment businesses.
SAN FRANCISCO - Google looks set to start trading on the Nasdaq today after the web #39;s No 1 search engine asked regulators for final approval to price its closely watched initial public offering.
WASHINGTON, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Hurricane Charley may have caused up to $15 billion in damage in Florida, but that is not seen immediately hurting the state #39;s credit picture thanks to strong finances and funds in reserve, analysts said ...
Oil prices moved back towards record highs tonight amid continued concerns over soaring demand and tight supplies.
Halliburton (HAL:NYSE - news - research) sank Tuesday after the Army chose not to extend a deadline for the company to explain its billing in Iraq.
After more than 16 months of restructuring, Air Canada #39;s creditors overwhelming endorsed the airline #39;s new business plan during a meeting at a Montreal hotel Tuesday.
Plan a big, fat cheap wedding, and start your coupling with extra cash, not debt.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Outback Steakhouse Inc. said Tuesday it lost about 130 operating days and up to $2 million in revenue because it had to close some restaurants in the South due to Hurricane Charley.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Army will withhold payment on 15 percent of future invoices of Halliburton Co.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HAL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HAL.N&lt;/A&gt; logistics deal in Iraq due to a billing dispute that could cost the company $60 million a month, the military said on Tuesday.
Wal-Mart sees August same-store revenues up 2 to 4. How should investors view this statistical range?
The billing dispute between the US Army and Houston-based Halliburton Co. continues as the Army on Tuesday said it would withhold paying 15 percent of future invoices from Halliburton.
The company said today that the United States Army had decided not to grant it additional time to substantiate its costs in Iraq and Kuwait.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Time is running out for prospective investors to submit their offers to buy shares of Google Inc. (GOOG.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , the Web #39;s No. 1 search company.
Oil prices moved back towards record highs tonight amid continued concerns over soaring demand and tight supplies.
Toyota has been outbid by a land developer for state-owned property in York Township, but officials say this is one deal that will be decided by more than money.
GameStop's lack of a competitive advantage leaves investors with many questions.
Chinese net stock Sohu.com (Nasdaq: SOHU) dropped by 10 on Friday after the company announced that its multimedia messaging services with China Mobile Communication had been temporarily suspended for a year. The sanctions were ...
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks traded higher on Tuesday, despite oil prices hitting a new high before falling back, as U.S. economic reports showed an easing of inflationary pressure and a sharp rebound in the housing market.
NEW YORK (AP) - A drop in consumer prices and a decline in crude oil futures Tuesday allowed investors to put aside worries about inflation, at least for the short term, and they sent stocks modestly higher.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Illinois residents will soon be able to buy lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, sidestepping U.S. regulators' objections to imported drugs, Gov. Rod Blagojevich said on Tuesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Treasury debt prices rose on Tuesday after July inflation figures proved subdued and soaring oil prices pointed to slower U.S. consumer spending down the line.
ATLANTA, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. (HD.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday reported a 19 percent rise in second-quarter profit, handily topping estimates, as store renovations and efforts to improve service drove higher ...
Applied Materials (Quote, Chart) said it filled a major gap in its services portfolio with its acquisition of Metron Technology (Quote, Chart).
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months as a sharp run up in gasoline costs reversed, the government said on Tuesday in a report suggesting the U.S. Federal Reserve can stick to a plan of gradual interest-rate rises.
Women employees of Costco Wholesale Corp. filed a sex discrimination class action suit today, alleging that the giant retailer imposes a glass ceiling that prevents women from reaching the top and keeps them in lower paid positions.
Reuters - Lawyers leading a record-setting sex discrimination case against Wal-Mart Stores said on Tuesday they filed a lawsuit against Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST.O), claiming the company kept women out of top store management posts.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks ended higher on Tuesday, even as oil prices hit another record, as investors were encouraged by data showing an easing of inflationary pressure and a sharp rebound in the housing market.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices rose to another record high on Tuesday on U.S. economic data showing inflationary pressure was held in check in July and ahead of weekly inventory data on Wednesday expected to show a decline in crude stocks.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Applied Materials Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMAT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMAT.O&lt;/A&gt;, the largest maker of chip-making tools, on Tuesday said healthy spending on new semiconductor factories more than doubled revenue and returned it to a quarterly profit.
Yukos suffered a double blow Tuesday when the Moscow Arbitration Court rejected attempts by the oil major to cover part of a $3.4 billion bill in back taxes and postpone collection of the claim.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Lawyers leading a record-setting sex discrimination case against Wal-Mart Stores said on Tuesday they filed a lawsuit against Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , claiming the company kept women out of top ...
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Nortel Networks Corp. investors predicted Tuesday the telecom equipment giant will again slash jobs when it reports long-overdue results this week, and shrugged off news of another criminal probe into its high-profile accounting woes.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - US stocks ended higher on Tuesday, even as oil prices hit another record, as investors were encouraged by data showing an easing of inflationary pressure and a sharp rebound in the housing market.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Air Canada creditors including a General Electric Co. unit and Deutsche Bank AG cleared a plan that gives them most of the company #39;s equity when the carrier emerges from bankruptcy protection at the end of September.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Army on Tuesday appeared to reverse a decision to stop paying a portion of Halliburton Co.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HAL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HAL.N&lt;/A&gt; bills in Iraq and gave the company more time to resolve a billing dispute.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks ended higher for a third successive day on Tuesday, even as oil prices rose to another record, after investors were encouraged by data showing an easing of inflationary pressure and a sharp rebound in the housing market.
Tate, who will also become executive vice president of the Corte Madera-based home furnishings chain, was most recently the operating chief at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc.
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- After months of unprecedented hype, Google took a final step toward its long-awaited public stock sale, asking regulators to finalize paperwork that could start trading as early as Wednesday.
SAN FRANCISCO An assistant store manager at Costco filed a federal civil rights suit today in San Francisco. Shirley quot;Rae quot; Ellis alleges she was passed over for a promotion because the retail chain #39;s policies discriminate against women.
TORONTO (CP) -- Up to 400,000 Canadians might be driving Ford vehicles with faulty door latches that could lead to serious injury or death, according to a $527-million class-action lawsuit commenced Tuesday against Ford Motor Co., Magna ...
Creditors approve plan, get 10 cents on the dollar and allow airline to emerge from bankruptcy. MONTREAL (Reuters) - Air Canada creditors approved a recapitalization plan Tuesday that will allow the world #39;s 11th largest airline to emerge from bankruptcy ...
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. on Tuesday reported a 19 percent rise in second-quarter profit, handily topping estimates, as store renovations and efforts to improve service drove higher average sales in every category.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar eked out marginal gains against the euro on Tuesday as the market digested a slew of U.S. economic data that failed to substantially alter the outlook for gradual increases in U.S. interest rates.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Department store operator J.C. Penney Co. Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JCP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JCP.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday posted a quarterly operating profit, reversing a year-earlier loss, on inventory controls and strong sales of jeans, home furnishings and career clothes.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Treasury debt prices rallied on Tuesday, dragging yields to four-month lows as July inflation figures proved subdued and soaring oil prices pointed to slower U.S. consumer spending down the line.
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Shares of Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , the largest maker of chip-making tools, rose after the bell on Tuesday after the company said healthy spending on new semiconductor factories more than ...
Alcoa Inc. will close an automotive components factory in Ohio and lay off its staff in a bid to cut excess capacity, the Pittsburgh-based company said Tuesday.
Fellow Fool Alyce Lomax and I need to debate Pier 1 Imports (NYSE: PIR). Between Alyce covering the company warnings and me advising not to jump off the pier, there has been little good news to report. Is Pier 1 ready to get ...
Reuters - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission did not declare effective Google Inc.'s registration statement for its multibillion-dollar initial public offering by the close of the agency's business day on Tuesday, an SEC official said.
PUNTA GORDA, Fla. (Reuters) - Rita Weston survived Hurricane Charley huddled under a mattress with her husband and mother in a mobile home she bought 35 years ago. But before the storm passed, the home was reduced to scrap wood and metal.
Aluminum producer Alcoa Inc. said Tuesday it is closing its Northwood, Ohio, automotive components factory by year-end to trim excess capacity, which will impact about 140 employees.
The real estate and travel company says it will continue to look for a buyer of its mortgage business.
The Pentagon is to withhold a proportion of payments to US firm Halliburton which supplies meals to US troops in Iraq.
AP - Janus Capital Group Inc. on Tuesday identified ING US Financial Services as the client planning to withdraw #36;5 billion from the Denver-based mutual funds giant.
NEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. securities regulators on Tuesday did not give Google Inc. the green light it needs to price its initial public offering, extending the wait for its highly anticipated market debut.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The US Securities and Exchange Commission has not declared effective Google #39;s registration statement for its multibillion-dollar initial public offering by the close of the agency #39;s business day on Tuesday, an SEC official says.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Crude futures headed higher Tuesday to close at a new historic level near $47 a barrel, following news that a Russian court has rejected a plea from oil giant Yukos to suspend government efforts to collect a $3.4 billion tax ...
Borders Group Inc. #39;s second-quarter profits rose 89 percent on stronger-than-anticipated book sales and topped Wall Street #39;s estimates. The company also increased its full-year earnings outlook.
Antitrust regulators have asked a federal appeals court to temporarily block Arch Coal Inc. #39;s $364 million acquisition of Triton Coal Co. Ltd., pending court appeal.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Borders Group Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BGP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BGP.N&lt;/A&gt;, the No. 2 U.S. bookseller, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose, beating estimates by the company and Wall Street, largely because of stronger-than-expected book sales.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Army reversed a decision late Tuesday to withhold payment on 15 percent of future invoices of Halliburton Co.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=HAL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;HAL.N&lt;/A&gt; logistics deal in Iraq and gave the company more time to resolve a billing dispute.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Borders Group Inc. (BGP.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the No. 2 US bookseller, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose, beating estimates by the company and Wall Street, largely because of stronger-than-expected book sales.
Applied Materials Inc., the world #39;s largest supplier of machines that make computer chips, Tuesday said surging sales in its latest quarter surpassed its own and Wall Street estimates.
WELLINGTON (Dow Jones)--NGC Holdings (NGC.NZ), a New Zealand-based gas distribution and metering concern, is seeking liquified petroleum gas and electricity network businesses in its quest for growth, the Dominion Post reported on its Web site Wednesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Borders Group Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BGP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BGP.N&lt;/A&gt;, the No. 2 U.S. bookseller, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose, beating estimates by the company and Wall Street, as a looming presidential election whetted appetites for political books and led to higher-than-expected sales.
The International Monetary Fund has praised the Jamaican government for stabilizing the country's economy.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc. #39;s plan to sell shares today in an initial public offering was delayed because the US Securities and Exchange Commission didn #39;t act on the company #39;s request to approve its stock registration.
Halliburton said Tuesday that the US Army had decided not to grant it additional time to substantiate its costs for feeding and housing American troops in Iraq and Kuwait, a decision that could cost the company 15 percent of its payment.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) have launched a criminal investigation into the financial accounting practices of network gear maker Nortel Networks just days before the company is set to release some of its restated financial results.
Google's estimated $3bn flotation has been delayed by at least a day as the firm awaits regulatory approval.
A myriad of financial institutions including banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment firms and credit-card companies are sending work to overseas locations.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Borders Group Inc. (BGP.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the No. 2 US bookseller, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose, beating estimates by the company and Wall Street, as a looming presidential election ...
Louisiana-Pacific Corp. named executive vice president Richard W. Frost the lumber company #39;s next chief executive, company officials announced Tuesday.
NEW YORK : Wall Street shares closed higher on Tuesday, but record oil prices capped the day #39;s gains amid concerns over a multi-billion-dollar tax bill facing Russian oil giant Yukos.
Investor confidence in Germany, Europe #39;s biggest economy, dropped in August to the lowest level in more than a year, according to data released on Tuesday, amid concern that record oil prices would crimp global growth and impede a recovery in consumer ...
International Business Machines said Tuesday it would buy two Danish competitors to add consulting services for shipping and logistics companies.
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - In an otherwise listless credit market, Halliburton has created some drama with its ongoing saga with the Army over its accounting for $1.8 billion of work in Iraq and Kuwait.
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Shares of data storage equipment maker Network Appliance Inc. (NTAP.O: Quote, Profile, Research) rose after the bell on Tuesday after the company posted a quarterly profit that rose 73 percent on strong sales in Asia and ...
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Mills Corp. (MLS.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , adeveloper of theme shopping and entertainment malls, on Tuesday said it would pay a General Motors unit about $1.033 billion to buy a 50 percent managing stake ...
In the face of sharp disagreements between Argentina and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), on August 8 the Argentine government decided to temporarily suspend negotiations with ...
Consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months as a sharp run up in gasoline costs reversed, the government said.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc. #39;s plan to sell shares today in a $3.47 billion initial public offering was delayed because the US Securities and Exchange Commission didn #39;t act on the company #39;s request to approve its stock registration.
SAN FRANCISCO - An assistant manager at a Costco store filed a federal lawsuit Tuesday accusing the retailer of not promoting her because she #39;s a woman.
Google's long-awaited initial stock sale, which appeared imminent today, has been delayed while the company awaits final approval of its paperwork by the S.E.C.
NEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - US regulators on Tuesday did not give Google Inc. the green light it needs to price its initial public offering, extending the wait for the Web search giant #39;s eagerly anticipated market ...
The Securities and Exchange Commission is poised to curb fund companies from steering stock trades to brokerage firms that agree to sell their funds.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Crude oil futures in New York traded near a record $46.95 a barrel as strengthening US economic figures boosted concern that production capacity may not be adequate to meet global demand.
BEIJING, Aug.18 (Xinhuanet) -- The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may revise its rules on initial stock offerings to modernize 1930s-era guidelines, agency commissioners and staff said.
Insurer and fund manager AMP Ltd. , on Wednesday posted a better-than-expected first-half profit on higher investment returns and improved margins, and targeted a stronger performance for the remainder of the year.
Domain hosting and parking services drop in price, rise in capacity to lure small businesses. Trying to attract more small business customers, Yahoo has introduced a new domain name registration service and significantly increased the storage space and ...
Against a background of lackluster retail sales in June and July, analysts and merchants still predict a decent, possibly strong, fall selling season for clothes, accessories and home furnishings.
Some of the nations more than 8,000 mutual funds are shutting their doors, as their manag- ers confront a lackluster stock market, great- er regulatory scrutiny and higher costs.
Google Inc. #39;s initial public offering has been delayed while the company awaits final approval of its paperwork by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- AMP Ltd., Australia #39;s largest life insurer, posted its first half of profit in four after Chief Executive Andrew Mohl reduced debt, cut costs and sold more equity investment products. The stock fell as much as 3.7 percent.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average turned lower by late morning on Wednesday as concern over surging oil prices and their possible impact on the global economy hit exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp.
Google #39;s public share offering is expected to go ahead as early as today following a request for final regulatory approval from the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
PITTSBURGH Alcoa said today it will take a seven (m) million dollar charge to close an automotive components plant in Ohio due to overcapacity.
The nation's factories cranked out more products in July, miners dug more minerals and builders broke ground on more homes, the government said yesterday in three reports that showed some rebound in economic activity last month.
Mills Corp., the Arlington-based retail developer, said yesterday it plans to buy half of Lakeforest Mall in Gaithersburg and eight other malls around the country in a billion-dollar deal that gives it a new portfolio of shopping centers to redevelop in the years ahead.
Airlines operating at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport have agreed to cut flights to reduce delays that ripple across the country, sources familiar with the talks said yesterday.
SEPTEMBER oil prices rose yesterday on US economic data showing that inflationary pressure was held in check in July. However, continued disruption in Iraqi supplies and strong world fuel demand and ongoing trouble at Russian oil giant Yukos underpinned ...
YUKOS has reported a net loss of US $2.65 billion (1.45bn) for the first half of 2004, a period of record oil prices, prompting speculation that the Russian oil firm is on the verge of declaring bankruptcy.
THE US army will withhold payment on 15 per cent of future invoices from Halliburton, the logistics support group which is feeding and housing its troops in Iraq and Kuwait.
A NEW record high for oil took some of the shine off Wall Street trade yesterday. An upbeat picture of inflation and good housing data boosted the mood early on and strong earnings from several retailers, led by Home Depot, also helped to keep the major ...
Google Inc. #39;s initial public offering of stock remained on hold yesterday after the Securities and Exchange Commission delayed final approval of the company #39;s prospectus.
Australian financial services group AMP Ltd. on Wednesday reported a return to profit in the first half of the year after cutting loose its loss-making British insurance operations.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo #39;s Nikkei average fell 0.59 percent by midday on Wednesday, erasing initial gains, as exporters like Nissan Motor Co. Ltd. declined on concern over the possible impact on the global economy of surging oil prices.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar idled on Wednesday after the latest round of U.S. inflation data failed to substantially alter the outlook for gradual increases in interest rates.
NEW YORK -- Oil prices have moved to fresh record highs of almost $47 a barrel on concerns about potential supply disruptions in Russia and Iraq.
Aug. 17 (Bloomberg) -- US stocks rose for a third straight day after an unexpected drop in consumer prices encouraged investors that the Federal Reserve may be able to slow the pace of interest rate increases. Benchmark indexes pared gains as oil prices ...
CANBERRA (Dow Jones)--Renewable energy generator Pacific Hydro Ltd. (PHY.AU) reported Wednesday a 39 jump in net profit, including a one-time tax benefit, to A $40.7 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, up from A $29.3 million in the previous year.
A US discount warehouse chain known for piling #39;em high, and selling #39;em cheap, is offering cut-price coffins along with the buckets of sauce and tubs of ice-cream under a new pilot program.
Against a background of lackluster retail sales in June and July, analysts and merchants still predict a decent, possibly strong, fall selling season for clothes, accessories and home furnishings.
Google, whose initial stock offering was delayed by the S.E.C., must prove that its success is not an accident.
Belo Corporation has set aside $23 million to compensate advertisers for exaggerated circulation figures at The Dallas Morning News.
J. Irwin Miller, 95, the industrialist and philanthropist who guided Cummins Engine Co. to international prominence and helped shape his home town of Columbus, Ind., into an architectural gem, died Aug. 16 at his home in Columbus. No cause of death was ...
Delta Air Lines, in an effort to avoid filing for bankruptcy protection, is considering giving its pilots an equity stake in exchange for pay and benefit cuts, a Delta pilot spokeswoman said yesterday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Cox Communications Inc., the No. 4 U.S. cable television provider, said late on Tuesday it formed a committee of independent directors to consider a $7.9 billion offer from its controlling family to take the company private.
LOS ANGELES, Aug. 17 (UPI) -- Oil futures reached a record high Tuesday as the market fretted over simmering potential pitfalls other than last weekend #39;s vote in Venezuela that kept controversial strongman Hugo Chavez in the presidency.
Washington - The nation #39;s factories cranked out more products in July, miners dug more minerals and builders broke ground on more homes, the government said Tuesday in three reports that showed some rebound in economic activity last ...
Chicago - Insured losses from Hurricane Charley could be between $10 billion (R66 billion) and $14 billion, according to industry estimates released as insurers received thousands of claims from Florida.
BJ #39;s Wholesale Club Inc. is gearing up for legal battles with credit-card-issuing banks, which are demanding $16 million to offset fraudulent credit card charges and other costs related to a security breach apparently involving BJ #39;s ...
SPORT UTILITY vehicles roared into stump speeches this month, flattening all common sense. At a speech last week introducing President Bush, Virginia #39;s Governor George Allen juiced the crowd by ...
The Army reversed a decision to withhold payment on 15 percent of future payments to the Halliburton Company on its contracts in Iraq and Kuwait.
Ringtones have proved to be such a lucrative side business for cellular phone companies that record labels in the United States have decided they want a piece of that revenue.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - ING U.S. Financial Services said late on Tuesday it will withdraw about $5 billion from Janus Capital Group Inc. funds by year-end.
Moderate news on the inflation front and a Labor Department report showing that consumer prices actually fell in July gave comfort to investors who are worried about potential price hikes.
n employee at the Costco Wholesale Corporation filed a national class-action lawsuit against the company yesterday, accusing it of discriminating against women in promotions to store manager.
ASHINGTON, Aug. 17 (AP) - A legal overseer will be appointed to represent participants in United Airlines #39; pension plans now that the company has halted contributions, the Labor Department said on Tuesday.
Reuters - Oil prices held steady near #36;47 on Wednesday, a day after striking another record peak as U.S. inflation stayed in check despite scorching energy costs and ahead of weekly data expected to show a drop in crude stocks.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - ING US Financial Services said late on Tuesday it will withdraw about $5 billion from Janus Capital Group Inc. funds by year-end.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Applied Materials beat Wall Street #39;s third-quarter financial estimates late Tuesday, but shares of the chip equipment company stalled after the company #39;s earnings targets for the fourth quarter came in lower than expected.
WASHINGTON, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Investment company Leucadia National Corp. (LUK.N: Quote, Profile, Research) said on Tuesday it had bought a 4.96 percent stake in MCI Inc. (MCIP.O: Quote, Profile, Research) for about $245.9 million.
Nortel Networks Corp., which plans to shed some light tomorrow morning on its financial performance for the first half of the year, hinted yesterday that those long-awaited results could be short on details.
At first glance, July #39;s muted price data seems to undercut inflation fighters #39; rate-hike strategy. But the softness isn #39;t likely to stay ...
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - High oil prices kept Asian stock markets in check on Wednesday as investors fretted over the impact of energy costs on corporate earnings, but an upbeat outlook from Applied Materials lifted some tech issues.
An assistant manager at Costco Wholesale accused the company of discriminating against female workers by failing to promote as many as 650 women to high-paying management jobs.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Insurer and fund manager AMP has reported a better-than-expected profit for the first half on higher investment returns and improved margins after casting off its British operations.
The world #39;s biggest mining group, BHP Billiton Ltd./Plc. said on Wednesday its second-half net profit more than doubled on strong demand for industrial raw materials, and forecast sustained high prices for commodities.
The Ann Arbor-based bookseller reported Tuesday an 88.9-percent boost in profits for the second quarter and said sales grew more than expected, driven by strong sales of Clinton #39;s book quot;My Life. quot; ...
Reuters - High oil prices kept Asian stock markets in check on Wednesday as investors fretted over the impact of energy costs on corporate earnings, but an upbeat outlook from Applied Materials lifted some tech issues.
NEW YORK -- Google Inc. faces serious headwinds as it prepares to launch its long-anticipated initial public offering despite a lacklustre equity market and questions about the company #39;s business plan.
US inflation fell by 0.1 per cent in July -- the first decline since late last year -- on a drop in gasoline prices, the US Department of Labour said yesterday in a report that suggests underlying price pressures in the world #39;s biggest ...
Global fund managers have become increasingly risk averse and significantly more pessimistic about corporate profits and the US stock market, according to the latest monthly Merrill Lynch amp; Co. Inc. survey.
FRAMINGHAM, MASS. -- Riding strong sales across its office products portfolio, Staples Inc. yesterday reported a 39-per-cent jump in second-quarter profit that topped Wall Street forecasts.
In what will be one of Canada #39;s largest white-collar crime investigations, the RCMP will assign as many as two dozen officers and forensic accountants to the criminal investigation of Nortel Networks Corp., a source familiar ...
Falling gasoline prices in July helped push consumer prices lower for the first time in eight months, indicating that the recent surge in inflation is subsiding.
When the rule of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez was reaffirmed in a landslide 58-42 percent victory on Sunday, the opposition who put the recall vote on the ballot was stunned. They obviously don #39;t spend much time in the nation #39;s poor neighborhoods.
An assistant manager at one of Costco #39;s Colorado warehouses filed a sex discrimination lawsuit against the Issaquah-based company yesterday, alleging that it overlooks women for promotion.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- BHP Billiton, the world #39;s biggest miner, more than doubled second-half profit as Chinese demand boosted commodity prices. The company is considering returning as much as $2 billion to investors, including share buybacks.
The federal agency that oversees auto safety has decided -- based largely on arguments from automakers and their Washington, DC, lobbyists -- that reams of data relating to unsafe automobiles or defective parts will not be available ...
Bank of America Corp. plans to lay off hundreds of tellers and other branch employees at Fleet banks today, asking them to leave the building immediately as part of the process, according to documents obtained by the Globe and Fleet branch managers told of the decision.
Dana Conneally walked into Starbucks at Faneuil Hall one recent morning in desperate need of a coffee fix. The employee at a local law firm handed his debit card to the Starbucks worker, who swiped it, then handed it back -- no signature or personal identification number required.
MetLife Inc. is in late-stage negotiations to sell one of Boston's oldest investment firms, State Street Research amp; Management Co., to another New York financial giant, BlackRock Inc., according to two executives briefed on the talks.
Fidelity Investments charges two-tenths of 1 percent to manage a $484 million stock portfolio for the Massachusetts state pension fund. It charges investors in its flagship Magellan fund seven-tenths -- more than three times as much.
Canadian officials are opening a criminal investigation into accounting at Nortel Networks Corp. Shares in the telecom equipment maker edged lower yesterday.
LoJack Corp., which makes devices for recovering stolen cars, agreed to buy Boomerang Tracking Inc. for about $48 million to expand into Canada. LoJack will pay about $4.32 a share in cash or a combination of cash and stock for the Montreal maker of stolen vehicle recovery equipment, LoJack said. Westwood-based LoJack also gets Boomerang's cash balance of $12 million. ...
Brazilian police arrested more than 60 people yesterday in a massive operation to crack down on money laundering, targeting currency changers who illegally transfer money abroad.
It #39;s hard to see the silver lining to the clouds over Florida at the moment. Soaking debris and destroyed homes, bereaved families and a rearranged landscape are the testament to Hurricane Charley #39;s power.
A Costco Wholesale assistant manager sued the warehouse-club chain yesterday in federal court, alleging the company #39;s promotion policies keep women from seeking out the top two positions at its stores.
LONDON (Reuters) - Fund managers #39; views on corporate profitability worldwide have turned sharply negative over the past month for the first time in three years, a Merrill Lynch survey of fund managers shows.
Property group Lend Lease Corp. on Wednesday announced a return to full-year profit and forecast earnings-per-share growth of more than 15 percent in the current year.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar hovered near multi-week lows on Wednesday as investors questioned whether the U.S. central bank would raise interest rates next month in the light of another round of weak U.S. data.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc., the Web search engine, on Wednesday slashed the price range on its eagerly awaited initial public offering to between $85 and $95 per share from $108 to $135 per share.
Philippine shares finished lower Wednesday on selling triggered by a clutch of negative financial news and the steep fall of blue-chip Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. #39;s American depositary receipts, traders said.
Financial services firm ING has been identified as the company that plans to yank $5 billion from the hands of Janus Capital Group.
Ford is celebrating its 100th anniversary in Canada today amid uncertainty over the future of the automaker #39;s Oakville assembly plant.
Reuters - Google Inc., the Web search engine, on Wednesday slashed the price range on its eagerly awaited initial public offering to between #36;85 and #36;95 per share from #36;108 to #36;135 per share.
Reuters - Bank of America Corp. (BAC.N), plans on Wednesday to lay off hundreds of tellers and other employees at Fleet bank branches, and ask them to leave immediately, the Boston Globe said on Wednesday, citing documents it obtained and Fleet branch managers.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices held steady near $47 a barrel on Wednesday a day after setting yet another record when the United States, the world's biggest oil consumer, said inflation had stayed in check despite rising energy costs.
Anglo-Australian mining giant BHP Billiton on Wednesday announced Australia #39;s biggest ever annual net profit, US $3.51 billion (euros 2.84 billion), thanks to soaring demand.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Nestle SA, the world #39;s largest food company, said first-half profit rose 2.1 percent, less than forecast, as sales in Western Europe declined and costs for sugar, energy and packaging materials increased.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc., the Web search engine, on Wednesday slashed the price range on its eagerly awaited initial public offering to between $85 and $95 per share from $108 to $135 per share.
WASHINGTON Con-sumer prices in July fell nationally by 0.1 percent and in the New York metro region by 0.2 percent as gasoline prices dropped, the US Labor Department said yesterday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Bank of America Corp. (BAC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , plans on Wednesday to lay off hundreds of tellers and other employees at Fleet bank branches, and ask them to leave immediately, the Boston Globe said on Wednesday, citing ...
PARIS (Reuters) - French flag carrier Air France is raising its ticket prices by up to 12 euros (8 pounds) per flight leg, joining a number of other airlines in passing on higher jet fuel costs to passengers.
LONDON (Reuters) - High oil prices weighed on investor sentiment across financial markets on Wednesday as the price of crude stuck stubbornly close to $47 a barrel.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- BHP Billiton, the world #39;s biggest mining company, more than doubled second-half profit as Chinese demand boosted commodity prices and said it may return as much as $2 billion to investors, including through share buybacks.
Philippine shares finished lower Wednesday on selling triggered by a clutch of negative financial news and the steep fall of blue-chip Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. #39;s American depositary receipts, traders said.
The FreeiPods.com website looks as phony as a $3 bill. In fact, it's at the forefront of performance-based marketing, as advertisers discover it's more effective to spend $50 million on gifts than to blow the cash on TV ads. By Leander Kahney.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc., the world's most popular Web search engine, on Wednesday slashed the price range on its eagerly awaited initial public offering (IPO) to between $85 and $95 per share from between $108 and $135 per share.
Reuters - U.S. shares were expected to open lower on Wednesday after crude oil pushed to a fresh high overnight, while Web search engine Google Inc. dented sentiment as it slashed the price range on its initial public offering. In a statement posted on its IPO Web site, Google said it had cut the range on its IPO to #36;85- #36;95 per share from #36;108- #36;135 previously, a 26 percent reduction at the mid-point of the range.
Reuters - U.S. oil futures set a new record #36;47.01 a barrel on Wednesday after a new threat against Iraq's oil sector by rebel Shi'ite militia. U.S. crude traded up 26 cents to set a new high in the 21-year history of the New York Mercantile Exchange contract.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google, the world #39;s most popular Web search engine, has slashed the price range on its eagerly awaited initial public offering to between $85 and $95 per share from between $108 and $135 per share.
TORONTO -- Shares of Nortel Networks edged lower yesterday after Canadian officials said they were opening a criminal investigation into accounting practices at the telecommunications equipment maker.
LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. shares were expected to open lower on Wednesday after crude oil pushed to a fresh high overnight, while Web search engine Google Inc. dented sentiment as it slashed the price range on its initial public offering.
NEW YORK, August 18 (New Ratings) Google Inc has reportedly reduced its expected IPO price range to $85- $95 per share, from the previously expected price range of $108- $135 per share. The company is unlikely to price its shares until the market closes ...
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Crude oil prices rose to a record in New York before a government report that #39;s expected to show the third straight weekly drop in US crude oil inventories.
In a sign that Google Inc. #39;s initial public offering isn #39;t as popular as expected, the Internet search giant lowered its estimated price range to between $85 and $95 per share, down from its earlier prediction of $108 and $135 per share.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices have surged to a new high of $47 a barrel after a new threat by rebel militia against Iraqi oil facilities, and as the United States says inflation has stayed in check despite rising energy costs.
NEW YORK, August 18 (New Ratings) The Halliburton Company (HAL.NYS) has reportedly gained more time to justify its bills to the US Army, regarding the company #39;s contract to provide logistic services to the US troops in Iraq.
Telecommunications companies Swisscom AG and Telekom Austria AG are in talks over a possible merger, Swisscom said in a statement late Tuesday.
LONDON (Reuters) - OPEC producers have said they see little impact on economic growth so far from oil's relentless price surge, which Wednesday racked up yet another record high.
Google, Inc. significantly cut the expected share price for its initial public stock offering this morning, signaling lower-than-anticipated demand for the most highly publicized new stock since the late 1990s.
US stocks are seen off a touch at the open Wednesday as the price of oil continues to plague investor sentiment.
BOSTON (AP) -- The layoffs are a result of Bank America #39;s merger with FleetBoston Financial Corporation.
Reuters - New applications for U.S. home loans rose last week while refinancings surged, as 30-year mortgage interest rates fell to their lowest level in over four months, an industry group said on Wednesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New applications for U.S. home loans rose last week while refinancings surged, as 30-year mortgage interest rates fell to their lowest level in over four months, an industry group said on Wednesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc., the world #39;s most popular Web search engine, slashed the price of its share offering Wednesday, as what had been touted as the hottest dot-com listing in years fell prey to worry about a slump in ...
News of an RCMP criminal investigation of Nortel Networks and its financial accounting practices sent the company #39;s shares down slightly on Tuesday.
The palm trees that narrowly missed Leo Berard #39;s pondside condominium in Naples, Fla., when they toppled Friday spared him from major repairs on his second home.
GALESBURG - Knox County State #39;s Attorney Paul Mangieri, discussing a lawsuit he plans to file against Maytag Corp., said Tuesday he was shocked when the company announced in October 2002 it was closing the Galesburg Refrigeration Products ...
Reuters - Brookstone Inc. (BKST.O), a retailer specializing in gadgets and personal electronics, on Wednesday posted a narrower quarterly loss on strong Father's Day sales and raised its profit forecast for the full year.
APPLIED MATERIALS INC. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMAT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMAT.O&lt;/A&gt;:
AFP - The Bank of England's nine-member monetary policy committee voted unanimously to raise interest rates by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent earlier this month, official records showed.
Reuters - Clothing retailer Talbots Inc. (TLB.N) on Wednesday posted a slight increase in quarterly profit, meeting its lowered forecast, as it sold more merchandise at full price and recorded a tax benefit.
Air France becomes the latest major airline to raise ticket prices in response to higher fuel costs.
The search-engine giant, which was expected to go public as early as Wednesday, instead has slashed the deal #39;s expected price range and cut the number of shares being sold by existing shareholder in half. The new parameters suggest a newly public Google ...
WASHINGTON - The US army said it had suspended its decision to partially withhold payments to Halliburton, the biggest US contractor in Iraq.
BOSTON A published report reveals that Bank of America plans to lay off hundreds of tellers and other branch employees at Fleet banks today.
Applied Materials, the world #39;s largest manufacturer of chip-making tools, said on Tuesday that its third-quarter revenue doubled, leading to $441 million in profit.
AFP - Japanese supermarket chain Seiyu, controlled by US retail giant Wal-Mart, said it incurred a net loss in the first half to June on the back of slow sales and early retirement costs.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar struggled to pull away from August lows on Wednesday as investors wondered whether the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates next month after another round of weak U.S. data in the previous session.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Taser International Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TASR.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;TASR.O&lt;/A&gt; rose before the bell on Wednesday after the company said it had received five orders totaling more than $741,000 for its stun guns.
Crude oil prices reached a record high of $47.04 (US) a barrel in pre-market trading Wednesday in New York on lingering concerns about supply from Iraq and Russia.
Demand for new home loans and refinancings jump as interest rates slide amid weak economic reports. NEW YORK (Reuters) - New applications for US home loans rose last week while refinancings surged, as 30-year mortgage interest rates fell to their lowest ...
Air France and KLM ticket prices are to rise after the carriers imposed further surcharges to counter high fuel costs.
Nestle, the world #39;s biggest food and drink company, on Wednesday posted a first-half net profit of $2.28 billion, up 0.02 percent on the year-earlier figure of $2.03 billion.
Georgia Power and Savannah Electric will not have to pay for new research into energy-efficiency programs, the state Public Service Commission ruled Tuesday.
Reuters - Shares of Taser International Inc. (TASR.O) rose before the bell on Wednesday after the company said it had received five orders totaling more than #36;741,000 for its stun guns.
Reuters - Dillard's Inc. (DDS.N) on Wednesday reported a narrower quarterly loss as the department store operator cut costs.
Google cut the price of its share offering today as the new listing fell prey to worry about a slump in demand.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc. slashed the size of its closely watched initial public offering nearly in half to less than $2 billion on Wednesday, splashing cold water on what has been touted as the hottest Internet IPO in years.
YUKOS has sold a 56 per cent stake in a Siberian natural gas company to the Anglo-Russian joint venture TNK-BP to pay off its crushing tax bill, Western oil sources and media reports said today.
US stock futures pointed to a weaker start Wednesday as rising oil prices and a major price cut for Google Inc. #39;s highly anticipated initial public offering raised investors #39; eyebrows.
PARIS (Reuters) - Europe #39;s largest carrier Air France-KLM has joined rivals in raising its ticket prices to offset soaring jet fuel costs, but a leading bank has questioned how effective the surcharges will be in protecting airline profits.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - From the cradle to the grave. You can buy baby food, groceries, computers, furniture and a whole host of things at Costco -- now you can even find caskets at some of its stores.
SYDNEY : Global mining giant BHP Billiton posted the biggest net profit in Australian corporate history as soaring commodities prices and strong demand from China pushed net profit up 83 percent to 3.51 billion US dollars.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Nestle SA, the world #39;s largest food company, said first-half profit rose 2.1 percent, less than forecast, as sales in Western Europe declined and costs for sugar, milk and packaging increased.
HONG KONG China Mobile (Hong Kong), the world #39;s largest cellphone operator by customers, said Wednesday that first-half profit rose 7.8 percent from a year earlier after the company won more new customers than China Unicom by offering cheaper services.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks are set to open lower on Wednesday after crude oil pushed to a fresh high overnight and Google Inc. slashed its initial public offering price, which appeared to dampen investor sentiment.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Dillard's Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DDS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DDS.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday reported a narrower quarterly loss as it cut costs, but a drop in same-store sales caused the latest results to miss Wall Street's estimates by a wide margin.
BRUSSELS, August 18 (Xinhuanet) -- Eurozone annual inflation fell from 2.4 percent in June to 2.3 percent in July 2004, the Statistical Office of the European Union (Eurostat), reported on Wednesday.
Reuters - Monsanto Co. (MON.N) on Wednesday said the U.S. Justice Department has closed an inquiry into potential antitrust issues regarding a key ingredient used in its Roundup herbicide.
Reuters - Brown Shoe Co. Inc. (BWS.N) on Wednesday posted a 32 percent drop in quarterly earnings, hurt by slack sales from its children's unit, Bass wholesale business and Naturalizer chain.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Brown Shoe Co. Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BWS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BWS.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday posted a 32 percent drop in quarterly earnings, hurt by slack sales from its children's unit, Bass wholesale business and Naturalizer chain.
Oil prices surged to a new high above $47 a barrel spurred by concern for the safety of oil facilities in Iraq.
When Internet search engine company Google, Inc., of Mountain View, begins to sell shares to the general public -- something expected to happen later this week -- the initial price is expected to be between $85 and $95 per share. The company had earlier ...
China #39;s largest cell phone service provider, China Mobile (Hong Kong) Ltd., reported a 7.8 percent jump in first-half profits Wednesday as its number of subscribers rose by 23 percent.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices surged to a new high above $47 a barrel on Wednesday on evidence from major economies that energy costs are not substantially slowing the economic growth that fuels oil demand. Fresh threats by rebel militia in Iraq against oil facilities helped underpin price gains.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc., on the eve of pricing the second-biggest Internet initial public offering, slashed the value of the sale almost in half amid the worst market for US IPOs in almost two years.
Oil prices have continued their record-breaking run on Wednesday, busting through the $47-mark amid concerns that demand will outstrip supply.
US officials have expressed concern about the fate of Yukos, the Russian oil company. Yukos shares have dropped sharply in value since the Russian government demanded it pay nearly three and a half billion dollars in back taxes. Russian authorities accuse ...
Dillard #39;s Inc. posted a narrower second-quarter loss Wednesday due to cost cutting, but missed Wall Street expectations by a whopping 15 cents per share.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - US stocks fell at the open on Wednesday after crude oil pushed to a fresh high and Google Inc. slashed its initial public offering price, which appeared to dampen investor sentiment.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - E*Trade Financial Corp. (ET.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , a major online broker, on Wednesday said customer stock trading for the month of July dropped 1.6 percent from June as investors curbed their enthusiasm for trading stocks.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Brown Shoe Co. Inc. (BWS.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday posted a 32 percent drop in quarterly earnings, hurt by slack sales from its children #39;s unit, Bass wholesale business and Naturalizer chain.
Cendant #39;s (NYSE: CD) got many revenue streams, and apparently they all lead home. So perhaps it #39;s understandable to see the multifaceted company pull back from the pending sale of its mortgage business. Last month Cendant revealed that it was in talks to ...
Reuters - BellSouth Corp. (BLS.N) said on Wednesday its new labor contract had triggered a #36;3.3 billion increase in its estimates of future retiree medical costs, reducing fourth-quarter earnings by 3 cents to 4 cents a share.
Crude oil prices surged again Wednesday, rising above $47 a barrel amid lingering concerns in supply from Iraq and Russia.
The High Street bank could be facing legal action over the transfer sensitive customer data overseas to call centres in India.
Google cut its price range to between $85 and $95 a share, down from $108 to $135, valuing the company at as much as $25.8 billion.
oogle today cut the estimated price range of its initial stock offering by about a quarter, to between $85 and $95 a share, valuing the Internet search engine company by as much as $25.8 billion.
BHP Billiton on Wednesday reported its highest profit ever as it beefed up production to meet rising demand from China that bolstered prices for its copper, zinc, silver and lead.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - BellSouth Corp. (BLS.N: Quote, Profile, Research) said on Wednesday its new labor contract had triggered a $3.3 billion increase in its estimates of future retiree medical costs, reducing fourth-quarter earnings by 3 cents to 4 ...
WASHINGTON - The Pentagon has hastily reversed a decision to partially withhold payments to Halliburton, the biggest US contractor in Iraq.
NEW YORK, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Dillard #39;s Inc. (DDS.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday reported a narrower quarterly loss even after it cut costs, but a drop in same-store sales caused the latest results to miss Wall Street #39;s estimates by a wide ...
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Barclays Plc, the UK #39;s third- biggest bank, agreed to buy Juniper Financial Corp. from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce for $293 million in cash to help expand its credit card business in North America.
Applied Materials (AMAT: news, chart, profile) shares were off two cents to $16.05 in trading before the bell Wednesday and had wavered around break-even in late trading Tuesday after the results were announced.
Nestle, the world #39;s biggest food and drink company, on Wednesday posted a first-half net profit of 2.84 billion Swiss francs ( $2.28 billion), up 0.02 percent on the year-earlier figure of 2.78 billion francs (then $2.03 billion).
Reuters - Higher raw material costs and lower ice cream sales in Europe ate into Nestle's (NESN.VX) first-half results, sending shares in the world's largest food group down over five percent on Wednesday amid concerns about its long-term profitability.
ZURICH (Reuters) - Higher raw material costs and lower ice cream sales in Europe ate into Nestle's &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NESN.VX target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NESN.VX&lt;/A&gt; first-half results, sending shares in the world's largest food group down over five percent on Wednesday amid concerns about its long-term profitability.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - ING U.S. Financial Services said it will withdraw about $5 billion from Janus Capital Group Inc. funds by year-end.
MONTREAL (Reuters) - Shares of Air Canada &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AC.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AC.TO&lt;/A&gt; fell by more than half on Wednesday, after the Toronto Stock Exchange said it was reviewing the company's stock to determine if it meets listing requirements.
The Pentagon backed off its threat to withold its monthly payment of about $60 million a month from a Halliburton subsidiary, which provides services for troops.
Reuters - Shares of Air Canada (AC.TO) fell by more than half on Wednesday, after the Toronto Stock Exchange said it was reviewing the company's stock to determine if it meets listing requirements.
LONDON (Reuters) - OPEC oil producers and Chancellor Schroeder of Germany, which is a prominent consumer, agree that the remorseless rise in the price of crude has so far had little impact on global economic growth.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were higher on Wednesday as investors bought beaten-down shares, even as the price of oil jumped to new 21-year record highs.
GOOGLE, the web search engine, has slashed the price range on its eagerly awaited initial public offering to between 47 and 52 per share from 59 to 74 per share.
BHP Billiton #39;s record-breaking profit was driven by China #39;s seemingly insatiable demand for commodities. Picture:Bloomberg ...
As hurricanes go, Charley stirred up a lot of trouble. The storm will go down as one of the most destructive in history. But it also stirred up trouble on Wall Street, igniting controversy about whether or not it #39;s a good time to look at insurers.
Dillard #39;s Inc. reported that its loss narrowed in the second quarter to nearly half of what it was a year ago, but it was still far more than Wall Street expected as the chain was dragged down by sluggish sales.
The Cox Communications (COX:NYSE - news - research) board formed a special panel to consider a take-private bid from the company #39;s controlling shareholder.
NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - US stockpiles of crude oil fell by 1.3 million barrels last week, the government reported Wednesday, sending prices to another record high.
Banking group Barclays today took the first steps towards establishing its Barclaycard operation in the United States credit card market.
Ford has ditched Oracle #39;s online purchasing system eVEREST, because of flaws in the software. The car manufacturer has reportedly spent more than $200m trying to get the system to work since it bought it in 2000.
Reuters - OPEC oil producers and Chancellor Schroeder of Germany, which is a prominent consumer, agree that the remorseless rise in the price of crude has so far had little impact on global economic growth.
Reuters - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission barred U.S. mutual funds on Wednesday from channeling brokerage commissions toward Wall Street firms based on their promotion of the funds' shares.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc. slashed the size of its closely watched initial public offering nearly in half to less than $2 billion on Wednesday, splashing cold water on what has been touted as the hottest Internet IPO in years.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission barred U.S. mutual funds on Wednesday from channeling brokerage commissions toward Wall Street firms based on their promotion of the funds' shares.
Stock prices are lower in moderate trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 23 points in today #39;s early going. Losing issues on the New York Stock Exchange hold a 5-3 lead over gainers.
ATLANTA (AP)--Telecommunications firm BellSouth Corp. said Wednesday that the new terms of its tentative labor agreement will change how the company #39;s contribution to retiree medical benefits is calculated and will boost benefit expenses by $3.3 billion.
NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - McDonald #39;s Corp. announced Wednesday it would launch later this year a new quot;contactless quot; payment option called MasterCard PayPass, which lets customers simply wave or tap the card to complete a quick transaction.
BHP Billiton has delivered the biggest profit ever achieved by an Australian company - a $US3.38billion ( $4.73billion) whopper, up 78 per cent on last year.
AT amp;T, the US telecoms group, and a team of subcontractors have won a contract valued at up to $1bn to design, build and manage a secure IP-based global network for the US government
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries turned tail on Wednesday as recent hefty gains attracted a wave of profit-taking in an otherwise featureless market.
Shares in Africa's biggest steel producer surge to a record high on the back of strong interim profits
TORONTO - Aber Diamond Corp. said Tuesday that world-renowned retailer Tiffany amp; Co. has sold its 8 million shares of Aber, and the companies have ended their discount sales agreement .
Reuters - Intel Corp. will miss its 2004 product cost reduction targets because of a widely publicized string of product delays and problems, but those missteps are largely behind it now, the world's largest chip maker said on Tuesday.
The UK's Financial Services Authority launches a formal investigation into Citigroup's "unusual trading activity".
Raise prices. Ease production. For weeks ahead of this week #39;s OPEC meeting, hawks in the organization have been talking tough about the need to keep oil revenues high - and lowering output.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc. slashed the size of its closely watched initial public offering nearly in half to less than $2 billion on Wednesday, splashing cold water on what has been touted as the hottest Internet IPO in years.
China has agreed to step in and pay Russian rail fees to ensure that it continues to receive Yukos oil if the company is unable to cover the transport costs, officials at Russia #39;s rail transport monopoly said Wednesday.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to declare the initial public offering registration of Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.OQ target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.OQ&lt;/A&gt; effective after 4 p.m. (2000 GMT), sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were higher on Wednesday as investors bought beaten-down shares and oil prices eased from the new 21-year record high hit earlier in the session.
With big tractors, big sales, and big earnings, Deere's hoeing a profitable row.
Switzerland's EndressHauser (International) Holding AG, a global supplier of process control systems, has migrated all its business applications from SAP AG to a mainframe running the open-source Linux operating system.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to declare the initial public offering registration of Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.OQ target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.OQ&lt;/A&gt; effective after 4 p.m., sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The US Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to declare the initial public offering registration of Google Inc. (GOOG.OQ: Quote, Profile, Research) effective after 4 pm (2000 GMT), sources familiar with the matter said on ...
Real is in a running battle with Apple, whose iTunes download store dominates with about 70 percent of legal downloading and whose iPod device for music storage is hugely popular. The iPod and iTunes were designed to work exclusively ...
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) have launched a criminal investigation into the financial accounting practices of network gear maker Nortel Networks Corp. just days before the company is set to release some of its restated financial results.
HINGHAM, Mass. (AP) - Talbots Inc. said Wednesday its profit for the latest quarter edged up five per cent, boosted by higher sales and an income-tax gain.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc., the world #39;s biggest bank, is being investigated by the UK market regulator over unusual trading activity #39; #39; in European government bonds earlier this month.
WASHINGTON, August 18 (Xinhuanet) -- Fund managers this month boosted the proportion of assets held in cash to the highest level since March 2003 when a global stocks rebound began, said the Washington Post on Wednesday.
NEW YORK, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Insurer St. Paul Travelers Companies (STA.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday said a bankruptcy court approved a $502.5 million asbestos settlement for all pending asbestos court actions against its Travelers Property ...
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to declare the initial public offering registration of Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.OQ target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.OQ&lt;/A&gt; effective after 4 p.m. (2000 GMT), sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - BellSouth Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BLS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BLS.N&lt;/A&gt; said on Wednesday its new labor contract had triggered a $3.3 billion increase in its estimates of future retiree medical costs, reducing fourth-quarter earnings by 3 cents to 4 cents a share.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc. slashed the size of its closely watched initial public offering nearly in half to less than $2 billion on Wednesday, splashing cold water on what has been touted as the hottest Internet IPO in years.
Frances AMF market watchdog slapped a one million euro fine on Jean-Marie Messier, the disgraced former chairman of Vivendi Universal , on Tuesday following allegations the media firm had published misleading financial information.
Auto maker Toyota on Tuesday entered into separate deals with rival satellite radio service providers Sirius and XM. Under its agreement with Sirius, Toyota will offer Sirius satellite radio service--either
Sprint, the fourth-largest US cell phone operator, has started a $3 billion network upgrade, with $1 billion earmarked for a wireless broadband service to launch soon in selected cities, a Sprint executive said Tuesday.
European officials issued their harshest condemnation yet of the euro #39;s recent surge, in a joint statement after a monthly meeting yesterday.
Crude oil fell to a three-month low on speculation that warm weather and increased refinery production have bolstered US heating-oil stockpiles.
America Online Inc., the nation's biggest Internet service, today began cutting 750 jobs, more than half at the firm's Northern Virginia headquarters, company officials said. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-The Washington Post&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. health officials, taking another step to ease the season's flu shot shortage, approved the importation of up to 4 million flu shot doses from Europe on Tuesday for patients willing to sign a consent form.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Intel Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=INTC.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;INTC.O&lt;/A&gt; will miss its 2004 product cost reduction targets because of a widely publicized string of product delays and problems, but those missteps are largely behind it now, the world's largest chip maker said on Tuesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New applications for U.S. home loans rose last week while refinancings surged, as 30-year mortgage interest rates fell to their lowest level in over four months, an industry group said on Wednesday.
The company impresses the Street with strong earnings, an optimistic outlook, and a toehold abroad.
If you're going to spend a lot producing a slick annual report, go all in.
NEW YORK, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Insurance payments to victims of Hurricane Charley are expected to reach $7.4 billion, making it the second most costly hurricane to hit the United States, an insurance industry group said on Wednesday.
NEW YORK, Aug 18 (Reuters) - New applications for US home loans rose last week while refinancings surged, as 30-year mortgage interest rates fell to their lowest level in over four months, an industry group said on Wednesday.
SAN FRANCISCO -- A Colorado assistant store manager at Costco has filed a federal lawsuit, alleging she was passed over for a promotion because she is a woman.
AP - Janus Capital Group Inc. said Wednesday it has finalized a #36;226.2 million settlement with state and federal regulators over improper trading allegations, part of a scandal sweeping the #36;7 trillion mutual funds industry.
Parmalat issues proceedings against its ex-auditors over their dealings with the insolvent group before its near collapse
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pushed ahead on Wednesday with reforms of the $7.5-trillion mutual fund industry amid scandals that have shaken fund investors' confidence.
MONTREAL (Reuters) - Shares of Air Canada &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AC.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AC.TO&lt;/A&gt; fell by more than half on Wednesday, after the Toronto Stock Exchange said it was reviewing the company's stock to determine if it meets listing requirements.
MILAN (Reuters) - Parmalat sued its former auditors Deloitte Touche and Grant Thornton on Wednesday, broadening a legal battle to claw back billions of euros from ex-allies the food group says helped drive it into insolvency.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. airlines have agreed to limit flights into Chicago's O'Hare International Airport to 88 arrivals per hour between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. in an effort to cut congestion that has slowed the whole U.S. aviation system, federal officials said on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON Aug. 18, 2004 Federal officials have reached a temporary agreement to ease congestion at Chicago #39;s O #39;Hare International Airport that calls for a reduction of 37 daily arrivals by United Airlines and American Airlines, officials said ...
Italian food giant Parmalat is suing its former auditors over their dealings with the insolvent group before its near collapse last December.
Telecommunications companies Swisscom AG and Telekom Austria AG are in talks over a possible merger, Swisscom said.
Cox Communications Inc. is a step closer to going private, with the cable giant #39;s board of directors forming a special committee of independent directors to consider the Cox Enterprises Inc. proposal to take the company private in a $7.9 billion buyout.
Rivals XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio both have ventured again to the automotive industry in their latest efforts to land new subscribers, announcing separate distribution agreements Tuesday with Toyota Motor Corp.
VIENNA, Va. -- AT amp;T Government Solutions and its team of subcontractors have been chosen by the Treasury Department to build and deploy the largest civilian agency network, serving more than 1,000 domestic
US market regulators are looking into whether a Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF.N: Quote, Profile, Research) trader violated rules that prohibit expensive gift-giving in a bid to curry
Health care giant Johnson amp; Johnson is reportedly in advanced negotiations to acquire medical device maker Guidant Corp. for more than $24 billion.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc. slashed the size of its initial public offering nearly in half to less than $2 billion on Wednesday, splashing cold water on what has been touted as the hottest Internet IPO in years.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks made gains on Wednesday as investors bought beaten-down shares, while strength in oil prices pushed up energy companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=XOM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;XOM.N&lt;/A&gt;
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Hurricane Charley will probably cost insurers $7.4 billion, according to the first loss estimate based on insurance claims.
MILAN, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Parmalat sued its former auditors Deloitte amp; Touche and Grant Thornton on Wednesday, broadening a legal battle to claw back billions of euros from ex-allies the food group says helped drive it into ...
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Barclays Plc, the UK #39;s third-biggest lender by assets, agreed to buy the US credit card business of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce for $293 million to expand into the world #39;s biggest credit card market.
Forget quot;super-sized, quot; McDonald #39;s is going for quot;super-fast quot; service. The nation #39;s largest quick serve restaurant chain is getting ready to test a system that enables customers to tap or wave the new quot;PayPass MasterCard quot; on or near a specially equipped ...
Google drops its price and shares offered. Its magic: turning the hottest IPO in history into a disaster.
Former President Bill Clinton helped launch a new Internet search firm that claims better results for its engine than Google (nasdaq: GOOG - news - people ). The firm is called Accoona, from the Swahili phrase
SUPREME COURT The US Supreme Court is hearing arguments in a case that could lead to sweeping changes on how alcoholic beverages are regulated and sold.
Stocks inched higher Tuesday as investors saw the bright side of mixed economic data and rumors about big merger deals, including a report that consumer products giant Johnson amp; Johnson is in talks to purchase a leading medical device maker.
China #39;s biggest computer maker said it is in acquisition talks with a major international technology company, a disclosure that comes amid reports it might buy IBM #39;s personal computer business.
Three new stocks scheduled to begin trading this week - including Google Inc. #39;s highly anticipated initial public offering - slashed their expected price ranges Wednesday morning as the IPO market readies for a one-month break from trading debuts after ...
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices surged to a new high above $47 a barrel on Wednesday on evidence that energy costs are not substantially slowing the economic growth that fuels oil demand.
McDonald #39;s Corp. (NYSE: MCD) plans to expand a test market of five types of deli-style sandwiches to Louisville and three other cities, according to reports.
The Starbucks competitor will sell its international franchise business to battle at home.
ZURICH (Reuters) - Credit Suisse plans to focus its investment banking activities on high-margin business and float off insurer Winterthur in a long-awaited revamp aimed at boosting the earnings power of Europe's 10th-largest bank.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. economic outlook dimmed somewhat on Tuesday after reports said business productivity grew more slowly in the third quarter than first estimated, labor costs rose and other indicators signaled softening activity.
Bank of America Corp. laid off an unspecified number of employees Wednesday at hundreds of Fleet Bank branches, a byproduct of the merger of the two banks, a company spokeswoman said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The US Securities and Exchange Commission pushed ahead on Wednesday with reforms of the $7.5-trillion mutual fund industry amid scandals that have shaken fund investors #39; confidence.
LONDON (AP) British bank Barclays PLC gained its first toehold in the US consumer banking market Wednesday, saying it would buy credit-card company Juniper Financial Corp. from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce for $293 million in cash.
WASHINGTON : Bankrupt United Airlines has agreed to appoint an independent party to manage its employee pension funds prior to September 15 in an agreement with the US Labor Department.
VANCOUVER - A Vancouver-based firm won #39;t sell 1.2 million doses of influenza vaccine to the United States after all, announcing Tuesday that it will sell the doses within Canada instead.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks ended higher on Wednesday, as investors shrugged off record crude oil prices and bought beaten-down shares, pushing blue chips to close above 10,000 for the first time in 3 weeks.
UPDATED: Search engine darling Google (Quote, Chart) has slashed the price of its long-awaited public offering by about 30 percent to between $85 and $95 per share and plans to sell fewer shares.
The bad news just keeps pouring in for mutual fund manager Janus Capital Group (NYSE: JNS). Yesterday, the Denver-based firm reported that European banker ING Group (NYSE: ING) will pull $5 billion from its mutual funds, or ...
CHICAGO Italian dairy company Parmalat today filed a ten (B) billion dollar lawsuit against two auditors it accuses of overlooking fraud that nearly led to the company #39;s downfall.
Despite a strong third-quarter performance from Applied Materials (Nasdaq: AMAT), a weaker fourth-quarter outlook has the chip equipment maker #39;s shares treading water today.
TORONTO, Aug. 18 McDonald #39;s restaurants has announced an agreement to accept MasterCard PayPass, a new quot;contactless quot; payment option utilizing radio frequency technology at select McDonald #39;s restaurants in the United States. Participating McDonald #39;s ...
Vivendi Universal and its former chief Jean-Marie Messier have each been fined 1 million euros ( $1.35 million) for misleading financial information issued by the company when Messier was in charge, Messier #39;s lawyer said Tuesday.
TORONTO (CP) - US jewelry retailer Tiffany amp; Co. has sold its nearly 14 per cent stake in Aber Diamond Corp., part owner of Canada #39;s second diamond mine, Diavik.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said on Wednesday that it declared effective Google Inc.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; registration statement for its initial public offering.
The brokerage watchdog NASD on Tuesday censured Citigroup Inc. (CN: Quote, Profile, Research) and fined the financial services company $275,000 for violating rules regarding sales of risky investments.
Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) will cut about 4,400 jobs and close a third of its factories under a program aimed at fighting rising costs and focusing on higher-profit areas such as oral care, the company said on Tuesday.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. trade officials said on Tuesday that former European Union Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy would be a "strong candidate" to lead the World Trade Organization, but stopped short of formally endorsing him.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks ended higher on Wednesday, as investors shrugged off record crude oil prices and bought beaten-down shares, pushing blue chips to close above 10,000 for the first time in 2 weeks.
CHICAGO : United Airlines and American Airlines have agreed to temporary flight caps at Chicago #39;s O #39;Hare International Airport to ease congestion at one of the world #39;s busiest hubs, federal officials said.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - US stocks ended higher on Wednesday, as investors shrugged off record crude oil prices and bought beaten-down shares, pushing blue chips to close above 10,000 for the first time in 3 weeks.
EVERETT Fire investigators are still trying to determine what caused a two-alarm that destroyed a portion of a South Everett shopping center this morning.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Intuit Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=INTU.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;INTU.O&lt;/A&gt;, maker of the No. 1 U.S. tax presentation software TurboTax, on Wednesday posted a wider quarterly loss from a year earlier after taking a goodwill impairment charge during its seasonally weaker fourth quarter.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar was a little stronger against the main European currencies but weaker against the yen on Wednesday, with the Japanese currency rallying across the board as dealers adjusted positions.
The government of Buenos Aires, the richest province of Argentina, says it wants to seize the safety deposit boxes of 35,000 alleged tax debtors.
SAN JOSE, Calif. Aug. 18, 2004 The Securities and Exchange Commission granted final approval Wednesday to the paperwork required for Google Inc. #39;s initial public offering, paving the way for the Internet search giant to set a price for its shares and ...
Federal officials announced an agreement Wednesday to ease congestion at O #39;Hare International Airport by temporarily cutting 37 daily peak-hour arrivals by United Airlines and American Airlines, its two largest carriers.
NEW YORK, Aug 18 - Moody #39;s Investors Service said on Wednesday it raised the senior unsecured debt rating of Dell Inc. (DELL.O: Quote, Profile, Research) with a stable outlook citing the firm #39;s strong balance sheet and solid operating and financial ...
Jean-Marie Messier, the former chief of Vivendi Universal SA who is under investigation for alleged fraud and stock manipulation, was fined 1 million euros ( $1.3 million) by French regulator Autoritee des Marches Financiers.
HONG KONG - China #39;s biggest computer maker said Tuesday it is in acquisition talks with a major international technology company, a disclosure which comes amid reports it might buy IBM Corp.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.OQ target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.OQ&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday got the green light to go ahead with a downsized version of its much-hyped initial public offering, meaning its shares could debut on Nasdaq as soon as Thursday.
Reuters - Medtronic Inc. (MDT.N) on Wednesday said its quarterly earnings rose on brisk demand for devices that manage irregular heart beats and products used to treat the spine.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Google Inc. said on Wednesday that the auction has closed for its initial public offering.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The rules on what executives may and may not say during the run-up to launching a company onto the public markets need a quot;good, hard look, quot; the top US securities regulator said on Wednesday.
NEW YORK, August 18 (New Ratings) Crude oil prices reached new record high levels today, following the US Energy Department report regarding the expanded operations by the US refineries and increased gasoline demand for this year.
Hundreds of branch employees at Fleet Bank, one of the largest banks in Philadelphia and now part of Bank of America, are being laid off Wednesday across the Northeast.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Intuit Inc. (INTU.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , maker of the No. 1 US tax presentation software TurboTax, on Wednesday posted a wider quarterly loss from a year earlier after taking a goodwill impairment charge during its ...
The SEC hurdle had been closely watched after Google made some missteps after announcing its intention to go public, including possibly violating the quiet period regulations. At the market close, the Dow had climbed 110.32 ...
LONDON, August 18 (New Ratings) The insolvent Italian dairy food product company, Parmalat Finanziaria SpA (PAF.FSE), filed a lawsuit against its former auditors, Deloitte amp; Touche and Grant Thornton, today, seeking damages of at least $10 billion.
Volkswagen workers in Mexico have gone on strike after rejecting a wage increase offered by company management.
CHICAGO, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Shares of Synovis Life Technologies Inc.(SYNO.O: Quote, Profile, Research) tumbled 13 percent on Wednesday after the company reported a drop in quarterly net income and withdrew its annual and fourth-quarter outlook, citing ...
Speculation spreads that China's biggest computer maker will buy IBM's PC business. Also: Clinton attends launch of Chinese search engine powered by AI hellip;. A new DVD can play on old and new HD technology hellip;. and more.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices fell more than a dollar to a three-month low on Tuesday as mild winter weather sapped demand in the heavy energy consuming U.S. northeast.
US regulators approve documents relating to Google's flotation, clearing the way for its market debut.
Workers at a Volkswagen factory in Mexico, which manufactures VW's New Beetle model, have gone on strike over pay.
Sprint Corp. said Tuesday it reached multi-year agreements totaling $3 billion with Lucent Technologies Inc., Motorola Inc. and Nortel Networks Corp.
NEW YORK -- Hurricane Charley will likely cost insurers at least $7.4 billion, according to the Insurance Institute, an industry trade group that based its estimate on initial claims data from Florida residents and businesses.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Medtronic Inc. (MDT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday said its quarterly earnings rose on brisk demand for devices that manage irregular heart beats and products used to treat the spine.
Gone are the days when coyness ruled the marketing of the drug that helps the condition that men find hard to talk about. In a Madison Avenue dream situation, Viagra is facing some stiff competition in a three-way battle for ...
Los Angeles-based Ampco System Parking has received a multi-year contract renewal with Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Synopsys Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SNPS.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;SNPS.O&lt;/A&gt; tumbled on Wednesday after the semiconductor design software maker reported lower third-quarter net income and said fourth-quarter earnings and revenues would be below Wall Street estimates.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices dropped on Wednesday as the market succumbed to profit-taking after racking up sizable gains over the past month.
quot;We #39;ve worked hard to balance the need to provide vibrant air service and grow the economy with the need to clear the skies over O #39;Hare, quot; said Mineta. quot;The process worked, yielding substantial reductions that will produce results for the ...
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Synopsys Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SNPS.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;SNPS.O&lt;/A&gt; tumbled on Wednesday after the semiconductor design software maker reported lower third-quarter net income and said fourth-quarter earnings and revenues would be below Wall Street estimates.
news analysis Google #39;s decision to cut back its public offering by as much as 30 percent represents a stinging rebuke for a deal once heralded as a surefire windfall not only for the company but the technology industry at large.
ARIS, Aug. 18 - Oil prices climbed above $47 a barrel today, setting yet another record, after figures showed supplies in the United States were down for a third consecutive week while a report from OPEC highlighted the threat of high oil ...
CHICAGO, Aug 18 (Reuters) - US airlines have agreed to limit flights into Chicago #39;s O #39;Hare International Airport at peak periods to stem record delays that have slowed aviation nationwide, federal officials said on Wednesday.
NEW YORK, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines (DAL.N: Quote, Profile, Research) said on Wednesday it was asking permission to buy back debt from about 10 percent of its bondholders, in a first step toward the struggling company #39;s efforts to restructure its ...
Reuters - Mortgage finance company Freddie Mac (FRE.N) on Wednesday said it may face civil action from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of securities laws.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Mortgage finance company Freddie Mac &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;FRE.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday said it may face civil action from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of securities laws.
Earlier Wednesday, Google cut the range of its IPO price to $85- $95 per share from $108- $135 per share and the number of shares that will be sold from 25.7 million to 19.6 million. The cuts mean Google could raise about $1.8 billion in ...
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--News Corp. (NWS) Chairman Rupert Murdoch said there was quot;no choice quot; but to change the media giant #39;s domicile to the US as he attempts to win over crucial support from Australian investors for the move, the Australian Financial Review ...
CHICAGO, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines Chief Executive Gerald Grinstein presented his long-awaited plan for the airline #39;s future to board members on Wednesday, a strategy that could determine whether the struggling carrier ...
Italian-based Parmalat is suing its former auditors -- Grant Thornton International and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu -- for billions of dollars in damages. Parmalat blames its demise on the two companies #39; mismanagement of its finances.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Freddie Mac &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;FRE.N&lt;/A&gt;, the No. 2 U.S. mortgage finance company, on Wednesday said it may face civil action from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of securities laws.
PARIS Oil prices climbed to another high on Wednesday after figures showed US crude supplies were down for a third straight week while a report from OPEC highlighted the threat of high oil prices for world economies.
LONDON Barclays said Wednesday it would buy the US credit card company Juniper Financial for $293 million as part of its international expansion plan.
Bank of America acquired Boston-based Fleet Financial Corporation last Spring -- promising at the time there would be no job cuts from the merger.
LONDON Air France and its unit KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, as well as British Midland Airways, announced new fare surcharges on Wednesday as a result of higher fuel costs. They follow similar moves by British Airways and Deutsche Lufthansa.
BRUSSELS Inflation in the 12 countries sharing the euro slowed for a second month in July as faltering consumer demand deterred companies from passing on rising energy costs. But economists said higher oil prices may fuel a reversal of that trend as the ...
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Medtronic Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MDT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MDT.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday said its quarterly earnings rose on surprisingly brisk demand for devices that slow racing heartbeats, offsetting a weaker-than-expected performance in some of its other businesses.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were little changed on Tuesday, with oil prices dropping below $42 a barrel helping to support markets, but Johnson Johnson &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JNJ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JNJ.N&lt;/A&gt; put pressure on the Dow following a report of a possible $24 billion takeover of cardiovascular device maker Guidant Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GDT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GDT.N&lt;/A&gt;.
Aug. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Mohl (left), chief executive of AMP Ltd., talks with Bloomberg #39;s Kevin Foley in Sydney about first-half profit, investment fees and the strategy for its 10-percent stake in HHG Plc. AMP, Australia #39;s largest life insurer, ...
Nortel Networks is under investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police for irregularities in past accounting practices. Announcement of the investigation -- two days before its release of first- and second-quarter financials -- caused ...
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Freddie Mac, the No. 2 US mortgage finance company, said Wednesday it may face civil action from the Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of securities laws.
Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- It #39;s time for the Bank of England to take a breather, chill out and learn to stop worrying about the ghost of inflation past.
Delta Air Lines #39; much-awaited turnaround plan will include more job cuts at the ailing carrier, along with pay and benefits changes.
Reuters - Misconduct in the U.S. mutual fund industry is not limited to fund share trading; it's not even limited to funds, say market regulators.
The productivity of America #39;s workers grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the slowest pace in nearly two years, the government reported Tuesday.
Credit Suisse Group, Switzerland #39;s second-biggest bank, plans to combine its Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) securities unit with its banking business in the next two years to boost earnings.
Like the big oil companies, the world #39;s mining majors are experiencing an embarrassment of riches due to very high commodity prices. BHP Billiton is in the happiest position: it is both the world #39;s biggest miner and has a substantial oil production ...
Barclaycard, the UK #39;s largest credit card provider, moved closer to making its first steps in the US market yesterday as its parent group, Barclays, snapped up Juniper Financial Corporation, the North American consumer credit firm, for ...
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Medtronic Inc. (MDT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday said its quarterly earnings rose on surprisingly brisk demand for devices that slow racing heartbeats, offsetting a weaker-than-expected performance in some ...
Johnson and Johnson is in negotiations to acquire Guidant, one of the largest American makers of devices to treat heart and circulatory illnesses.
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet joined European finance ministers in appealing to the US to stem the decline of the dollar, warning that the currencys slide risks derailing global growth.
IBM may need to do some creative deal making in order to sell PC business to China #39;s Lenovo. By Robert Cyran, Breakingviews. LONDON (Breakingviews) - It #39;s no surprise IBM is in talks to sell its PC business
Reuters - Freddie Mac (FRE.N), the No. 2 U.S. mortgage finance company, on Wednesday said it may face civil action from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of securities laws.
VEVEY, Switzerland Aug. 18, 2004 Nestle SA posted a modest 2 percent increase in profits for the first half of the year as it faced such challenges as higher prices for raw materials like milk and coffee as well as cooler temperatures,which dampened ...
SAN JOSE, Calif. (CP) - Google Inc. says its initial public shares are priced at $85 each, at the low end of the Internet search giant #39;s downgraded estimates.
Reuters - Google Inc.'s GOOG.O initial public offering of 19.6 million shares priced at #36;85 each, the low end of their projected range, a source familiar with the auction said on Wednesday, raising #36;1.67 billion and making it the fourth-largest U.S. IPO this year.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc.'s GOOG.O initial public offering of 19.6 million shares priced at $85 each, the low end of their projected range, a source familiar with the auction said on Wednesday, raising $1.67 billion and making it the fourth-largest U.S. IPO this year.
China Mobile (Hong Kong), the world #39;s largest cellphone operator ranked by customers, said Wednesday that profit rose 7.8 percent in the first half of this year after the company enrolled more new subscribers by offering less-expensive services. Net ...
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Freddie Mac (FRE.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the No. 2 US mortgage finance company, on Wednesday said it may face civil action from the US Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of securities laws.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. (AP)--Intuit Inc. #39;s loss widened for the fourth quarter ended July 31, hurt by slower seasonal sales of the company #39;s tax and finance software and an impairment charge from its decision to sell one of its businesses, the company said ...
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average added 0.8 percent by midday on Thursday as tech issues got a lift from a rally on the Nasdaq, but gains were capped and trading choppy as high oil prices fueled concerns about the world economy.
If US Airways files for bankruptcy a second time, its chairman says, there will be no outside investor, other airline or government aid to rescue it.
Nortel Network Corp. #39;s board of directors was scheduled to meet last night to approve financial data that will be released this morning, giving the public its first look at the company #39;s 2004 performance.
Australia #39;s dominant airline, Qantas, has nearly doubled its annual profits after recovering from the previous year #39;s Iraq war and SARS induced downturn.
Reuters - Medtronic Inc. (MDT.N) on Wednesday said its quarterly earnings rose on surprisingly brisk demand for devices that slow racing heartbeats, offsetting a weaker-than-expected performance in some of its other businesses.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.OQ target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.OQ&lt;/A&gt;., the world's largest search engine, said on Wednesday it sold 19.6 million shares at $85 apiece in its long-awaited initial public offering, raising $1.67 billion for the company.
BHP Billiton, the world #39;s biggest mining company, has doubled its profits in the second half of the year on the back of booming global commodity prices.
HICAGO, Aug. 18 - The nation #39;s two largest airlines, American and United, announced on Wednesday that they would cut flights at O #39;Hare International Airport to ease congestion that has been delaying flights from coast to coast.
The nation #39;s factories cranked out more products in July, miners dug more minerals and builders broke ground on more homes, the government said yesterday in three reports that showed some rebound in economic activity last month.
Citigroup, the world #39;s biggest bond broking firm, could face disciplinary action from the Financial Services Authority following an unprecedented 7bn trade in European government bonds this month.
Oil prices climbed above $47 a barrel, setting yet another record, after figures showed that supplies in the United States were down for a third consecutive week.
Rivals XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. and Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. on Tuesday traded hits in the intensifying race for new subscribers, separately announcing distribution deals with Toyota Motor Corp.
Planned job cuts at US companies climbed during November, a report said on Tuesday, a further sign of sluggishness in the labor market.
US business productivity grew more slowly in the third-quarter than first thought, a government report showed on Tuesday, with other economic indicators also painting a mixed picture for growth.
Internet search giant Google has priced its long-awaited initial public offering (IPO) at just under $120 a share, far below initial expectations.
SYDNEY - Media mogul Rupert Murdoch said in a Thursday newspaper interview he would take a second stab at uprooting his News Corp Ltd empire from Australia to the United States if investors block the deal first time around.
TORONTO (CP) - Sprint Communications Co. has again split big wireless network equipment contracts between Nortel Networks Corp. and Lucent Technologies.
DECEMBER 07, 2004 (REUTERS) - China #39;s largest PC maker, Lenovo Group Ltd., could announce as early as today that it is buying control of IBM #39;s PC-making business for up to $2 billion, a source familiar with the situation said.
The initial public offering once touted as the hottest Internet IPO in years may have lost some of its momentum. Google Inc. announced Wednesday it has slashed the size of its IPO nearly in half and lowered its estimated price range.
A New York Jury ruled that the two planes that hit the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 were two separate events instead of one which increased the insurers liability by at least $140 million.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc., the most popular Internet search engine, raised $1.67 billion on Wednesday in its long-awaited IPO after slashing the price and size of an offer beset by missteps and poor market conditions.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The yen kept most gains against the dollar on Thursday after rallying to a four-week peak, but investors saw no reason to push it higher due to growing uncertainty about the outlook for the Japanese economy.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were little changed on Tuesday, with lower oil prices helping support markets, but Johnson Johnson &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JNJ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JNJ.N&lt;/A&gt; dragged on the Dow following a report of a possible $24 billion takeover of cardiovascular device maker Guidant Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GDT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GDT.N&lt;/A&gt;.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. shoppers have kept a tight grip on their wallets this holiday season with indices on Tuesday showing sluggish sales in the second week of the season.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Misconduct in the U.S. mutual fund industry is not limited to fund share trading; it's not even limited to funds, say market regulators.
AFP - Following embarrassing revelations over Greece's budget data, the European Union expressed alarm at the reliability of Italy's own deficit figures and called for urgent clarification.
Reuters - U.S. health officials on Tuesday approved the importation of up to 4 million doses of influenza vaccine made by GlaxoSmithKline , bringing the U.S. total to 65 million vaccines for this flu season.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. health officials on Tuesday approved the importation of up to 4 million doses of influenza vaccine made by GlaxoSmithKline &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.L target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GSK.L&lt;/A&gt; &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GSK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GSK.N&lt;/A&gt;, bringing the U.S. total to 65 million vaccines for this flu season.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines Inc., the number three U.S. carrier, plans more job cuts as it struggles to avoid bankruptcy, Chief Executive Gerald Grinstein said in a memo to employees on Wednesday.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc., the most popular Internet search engine, raised $1.67 billion on Wednesday in its long-awaited IPO after slashing the price and size of an offer beset by missteps and ...
READY TO FLY: The airline plans to emerge from court shelter on Sept. 30 -- if the justices overseeing its restructuring gives the OK at a hearing set for Monday ...
Google has received the green light for its initial stock offering -- but not without ruffling a few feathers at the Securities amp; Exchange Commission, which oversees share offerings. The SEC #39;s job is to make sure that companies disclose all the ...
The price of oil hit another high yesterday, closing above $47 a barrel as traders reacted to continuing concerns about supply disruptions from terrorism and instability in oil-producing countries.
Toronto (Aug. 19, 2004) -- Telecommunications equipment giant Nortel Networks Corp. announced this week that its past accounting practices, which are the subject of a criminal probe in the United States, are under scrutiny by Canadian authorities.
Like cicadas, debates about corporate governance pop up periodically with a great deal of whir and buzz. In 1992, for example, the business community protested Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Richard C. Breeden #39;s push for ...
CACI International Inc. said increased demand for its homeland security and intelligence services helped boost fourth-quarter profit by 56 percent over the same period a year earlier.
NESTLE SA, the world #39;s biggest food and drink company, posted a modest 2 per cent increase in profits for the first half of the year as it faced such challenges as higher prices for raw materials like milk and coffee as well as cooler temperatures, which ...
California sued Mirant Corp., a bankrupt US power producer, accusing it of rigging electricity markets during the 2000-2001 energy crisis that led to rolling blackouts and a tenfold increase in consumer energy prices.
Google's final share price was $85, far off the target range of $108 to $135 a share that the company projected last month.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Forget the fact that the new definition of the verb quot;to google quot; is: to blow an otherwise foolproof deal; or to miscalculate with extreme hubris.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Major North American airlines agreed to a voluntary limit of 88 arrivals per hour for flights serving Chicago #39;s O #39;Hare International Airport during peak traffic periods, the Transportation Department said ...
Freddie Mac, the government-chartered mortgage company that restated earnings by $5 billion, said yesterday that it might be the subject of a civil lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
DALLAS (CBS.MW) -- Halliburton #39;s shares closed higher Wednesday after the Army Materiel Command reversed its decision to withhold 15 percent of its future payments to the company under a contract to supply and support US troops in Iraq.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Delta Air Lines shares rose sharply Wednesday ahead of a Thursday meeting at which the carrier is expected to offer its pilots a stake in the struggling company.
Credit Suisse First Boston, the securities unit of the Credit Suisse Group of Zurich, replaced Adebayo O. Ogunlesi as head of investment banking with its president, Brian D. Finn, eight weeks after Brady W. Dougan was named chief executive.
Talbots, the clothing retailer, said yesterday that second-quarter profit rose 4.8 percent as sales increased and the company benefited from the resolution of an income tax issue.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average appeared headed for its third straight day of gains on Thursday and was up one percent by late afternoon as tech issues such as Shin-Etsu Chemical were lifted by a rally in New York.
Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc., the most-used Internet search engine, sold shares at $85 each in its initial public offering, the bottom of the range the company had suggested the stock would fetch in the biggest auction-style IPO.
Announcing record profit and revenue for the past year yesterday, global resources group BHP Billiton says it has decided to award a $2bn bonanza to its shareholders.
WASHINGTON - The US Army wants to know how a threatened plan to withhold $60 million a month in a billing dispute might affect Halliburton Co. #39;s ability to support US troops in Iraq.
ox Communications, the nation #39;s third-largest cable television operator, has formed a committee to consider the $7.9 billion bid by its parent, Cox Enterprises, to take the company private.
Hurricane Charley, the worst storm to hit the US in over a decade, will cost insurers $7.4bn (4bn;5.9bn euros).
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- The Blackstone Group agreed to buy Prime Hospitality Corp., which owns Wellesley Inn and AmeriSuites hotels, for $790 million, including the assumption of debt.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average climbed for a third straight day on Thursday, rising over one percent as a rally in New York boosted tech issues such as Toshiba Corp and Shin-Etsu Chemical
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices struck another record high on Thursday and remained supported above $47 by a fall in U.S. crude stockpiles and threats by insurgents in Iraq against oil facilities.
Bowing to pressure from the US Department of Transportation, airlines that serve Chicago have agreed to cut the number of flights they send to O #39;Hare International Airport. The two most affected airlines are the only two that fly nonstop between O #39;Hare ...
Reuters - Oil prices struck another record high on Thursday and remained supported above #36;47 by a fall in U.S. crude stockpiles and threats by insurgents in Iraq against oil facilities.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Asian shares rallied on Thursday, with Taiwan jumping more than 3 percent, as technology issues chased a rise in their U.S. peers and investors showed resilience to record oil prices.
Now Google-gawkers will start to discover if the much-hyped initial public offering was the great, equal-opportunity money maker for all mankind or one incredibly dopey deal.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices struck another record high on Thursday and remained supported above $47 by a fall in US crude stockpiles and threats by insurgents in Iraq against oil facilities.
The chairman of US Airways, David G. Bronner, said Wednesday that its employees must agree to a third round of wage and benefit cuts worth $800 million in the next 30 days or the airline could be liquidated.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia #39;s biggest airline Qantas has doubled its full-year profit on cost cuts and a pick-up in traffic, but the prospect of higher fuel costs has sent its shares down six percent.
Bank of America began cutting jobs Wednesday but officials would not confirm how many or where. But a spokeswoman said cuts were occurring, and would eventually reach 12,500, the same number given in spring when the merger became final.
The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday ordered mutual funds to stop paying higher commissions to brokers who promote the companies #39; funds. The agency also required portfolio managers to reveal investments in funds they ...
MONTREAL (Reuters) - Shares of Air Canada (AC.TO: Quote, Profile, Research) fell by more than half on Wednesday, after the Toronto Stock Exchange said it was reviewing the company #39;s stock to determine if it meets listing requirements.
MILAN (Reuters) - Parmalat is suing its former auditors Deloitte amp; Touche and Grant Thornton, claiming damages of quot;at least $10 billion quot; and broadening a legal battle to claw back funds from financial partners which it says ...
Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Japanese stocks rose for a third day, as Asahi Glass Co. and Nippon Mining Holdings Inc. raised their earnings forecasts, sparking optimism domestic economic growth will support profits.
A humbled Google Inc. makes its market debut on the Nasdaq exchange this morning after raising $1.67 billion in an initial public offering that fetched about half of what the Web search company had previously estimated.
This was supposed to be the people's IPO, an exercise in shareholder democracy that would serve as a model for other companies seeking to go public without the suffocating embrace of Wall Street.
The 2004 presidential race ended last week in a stunning defeat for Massachusetts Senator John F. Kerry, as incumbent President George W. Bush cruised to an easy victory.
More than a decade after thousands of construction workers began flocking to the Big Dig, Boston's $14.6 billion roadway project is winding down -- and so are the jobs.
Johnson amp; Johnson can't supply cardiac stents fast enough to capitalize on three recent recalls by archrival Boston Scientific Corp. , say cardiologists who use both companies' medical devices.
DENVER -- Janus Capital Group Inc. said yesterday it has finalized a $226.2 million settlement with state and federal regulators over allegations of improper market-timing trades.
The Securities and Exchange Commission ordered mutual funds to stop paying higher commissions to brokers who promote the companies' funds and required portfolio managers to reveal investments in funds they supervise.
ATLANTA -- Struggling Delta Air Lines Inc. plans additional job cuts as part of its effort to avoid bankruptcy, chief executive Gerald Grinstein said yesterday in a memo to employees.
WASHINGTON -- Flight reductions by 16 major airlines serving O'Hare International Airport -- the result of two weeks of talks with the Transportation Department to alleviate traffic at the overburdened Chicago airport -- are expected to improve on-time performance nationwide, including at Logan International Airport in Boston, where schedules have suffered because of O'Hare delays, according to aviation officials and ...
Verizon Wireless, the largest US mobile-phone operator, said a four-year agreement that would have made it easier for workers to join unions has expired.
As we watched television coverage of Hurricane Charley last weekend, my wife and I reminisced about a time nearly two decades ago when we lived in Florida and got the word to evacuate.
SAN DIEGO -- Software vendor Lindows Inc. formally postponed its initial public offering yesterday, citing adverse market conditions.
To Lynn Sand, the decision by 3Com Corp. to move its worldwide headquarters to Marlborough a year ago was a sure sign that Massachusetts can lure businesses with the best of them.
CHICAGO (CBS.MW) -- Shares of Rite Aid were hurting pretty good early Tuesday, falling about 5 percent after the drugstore chain warned that weak sales trends could bring its fiscal 2005 numbers in well below previous hopes.
WASHINGTON Google closed the unusual auction for its shares yesterday and prepared for its stock to begin trading at $85 per share, after weaker-than-expected demand from investors forced it to drastically slash the price and size of ...
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce sold its last retail banking operation in the United States yesterday, ending a brief, but tumultuous, foray south of the border.
Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- The founders of Google Inc. did it their way, and then they paid the price. Sergey Brin, 30, and Larry Page, 31, completed an initial public offering of the largest Internet search firm yesterday using an unorthodox Dutch auction ...
WASHINGTON -- Flight reductions by 16 major airlines serving O #39;Hare International Airport -- the result of two weeks of talks with the Transportation Department to alleviate traffic at the ...
The European Commission is backing its former trade commissioner Pascal Lamy to become the next head of the World Trade Organisation.
Reuters - Japanese shares rose for a third straight day on Thursday, advancing over one percent as a rally on Wall Street encouraged buying of technology issues such as Toshiba Corp. and Shin-Etsu Chemical
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese shares rose for a third straight day on Thursday, advancing over one percent as a rally on Wall Street encouraged buying of technology issues such as Toshiba Corp. and Shin-Etsu Chemical
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer will announce on Tuesday he will run for governor of the state in 2006, a spokeswoman said.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries faltered on Tuesday after a blistering two-session rally ran out of steam, though analysts still saw room to the upside given the large short-base in the market.
LONDON (Reuters) - The yen held close to the previous session's four-week high against the dollar on Thursday while the dollar held steady on the euro as investors awaited U.S. labor and manufacturing data due later. The Japanese currency rose to a high of 109.28 per dollar late on Wednesday, as cross currents in the market, mainly from a steep sterling fall, forced yen sellers to buy the Japanese currency back, pushing it higher against the dollar.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Google Inc. will make their Nasdaq stock market debut on Thursday after the year #39;s most anticipated initial public offering priced far below initial estimates, raising $1.67 billion.
SYDNEY, Australia (AP) - Qantas profits soared to a record 648.8 million Australian dollars (US $463.8 million, euro 376 million) in the past fiscal year, thanks to rising passenger numbers despite fears of Iraq war-related terrorism and the aftermath of ...
WASHINGTON - The Army has abruptly reversed itself and decided to pay all of Halliburton Co. #39;s fees to house and feed US troops in Iraq and Kuwait after the company threatened to legally challenge the effort to penalize it.
Give them credit, they #39;re starting the CEO search with plenty of lead time. Early in the day on Aug. 18, Thomas F. Chapman, chairman and CEO of Equifax, stated his intention to retire sometime in late 2005, according to a company statement. While such an ...
LONDON (Reuters) - The yen held close to the previous session's four-week high against the dollar on Thursday while the dollar held steady on the euro as investors awaited U.S. labor and manufacturing data due later.
BOSTON -- Although published reports yesterday claimed that Bank of America Corp. plans to layoff hundreds of employees at Fleet Banks throughout Massachusetts, Fall River area branches had not received official word by closing time Wednesday, according ...
Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Shares of JJB Sports Plc, Britain #39;s largest sporting-goods retailer, had their biggest decline in at least two years after the company said profit this fiscal year may be about 20 percent less than forecast amid declining sales.
THE LABOR Department #39;s trumpeting of its new regulations governing overtime, which go into effect next week, sounds a little tinny.
LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. crude prices rose to another new record on Thursday, rising 25 cents to $47.52 a barrel on evidence that high prices are not hurting world oil demand growth.
Home loan borrowing continued to surge in July, the Council of Mortgage Lenders says.
NEW YORK (CNN/Money) -- Internet search engine Google has announced it will go public at $85 a share, paving the way for the widely awaited but troubled stock offering to finally stumble to market on Thursday.
SAN FRANCISCO Google #39;s star-crossed stock offering is making high-tech history. But will its cash windfall help make it a permanent part of Silicon Valley lore despite mounting competition and a tepid market? ...
Third-generation mobile phone network 3 reports a rise in its UK customer base to 1.2 million - but its Hong Kong parent firm is hit by heavy 3G losses.
Reuters - U.S. crude prices rose to another new record on Thursday, rising 25 cents to #36;47.52 a barrel on evidence that high prices are not hurting world oil demand growth.
AFP - British retail sales fell in July for the first time in over a year, official figures showed, providing further evidence that higher borrowing costs are dampening consumer activity.
PARIS (Reuters) - Sky-high oil prices are likely to pressure Wall Street once again on Thursday, while earnings news from tech giants Ciena &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CIEN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;CIEN.N&lt;/A&gt; and Nortel &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.TO&lt;/A&gt; and Google's &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; awaited Nasdaq debut will also steer sentiment.
After months of missteps and fumbling with initial public offering via an unusual Web-based auction that bucked Wall Street conventions, the troubled pregnancy of Google, the search engine company, will finally be complete.
Instead of cramming as many as 132 arrivals into an hour, airlines at O #39;Hare Airport agreed Wednesday to limit themselves to just 88 an hour this fall, potentially slashing record delays but raising the prospect of higher prices.
News Item: quot;The US Army has threatened to partially withhold payments to Halliburton due to allegations of overcharges for food, shelter and services. quot; ...
Reuters - Sky-high oil prices are likely to pressure Wall Street once again on Thursday, while earnings news from tech giants Ciena (CIEN.N) and Nortel (NT.TO) and Google's (GOOG.O) awaited Nasdaq debut will also steer sentiment.
Reuters - US Airways Group Inc.'s (UAIR.O) chairman said employees must agree to #36;800 million in new wage and benefit cuts within 30 days or the airline might be liquidated, the New York Times said on Thursday, citing an interview with Chairman David Bronner.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's financial watchdog said on Thursday it was looking into recent trading by U.S. financial services group Citigroup &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=C.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;C.N&lt;/A&gt; in European government bond and derivative markets, but had not started a formal probe.
The Supreme Court is considering whether states may bar people from buying wine directly from out-of-state suppliers, a big-money question that could lead to sweeping changes
Sprint (Quote, Chart) has awarded wireless equipment contracts totaling $3 billion to Lucent (Quote, Chart), Motorola (Quote, Chart) and Nortel (Quote, Chart) to better compete in a sector reshaped by acquisitions and spectrum swaps.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Google Inc. will make their Nasdaq stock market debut on Thursday, with some market participants expecting a steady start or slight rise after the company #39;s initial public offering priced far below original estimates.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices struck a fresh record high above $47 a barrel on Thursday as fresh evidence of demand growth in China and India underlined how rising appetite for oil is straining the world #39;s supply system.
WEST PALM BEACH -- Hurricane Charley packed more punch than any storm not named Andrew, the Insurance Information Institute said Wednesday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - US Airways Group Inc. #39;s (UAIR.O: Quote, Profile, Research) chairman said employees must agree to $800 million in new wage and benefit cuts within 30 days or the airline might be liquidated, the New York Times said on Thursday, citing ...
Aug. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing #39;s biggest company, said first-half profit more than doubled on gains from asset sales. The company added users at unprofitable high-speed wireless networks in Europe at a ...
As reports FinanceGates.com, the largest Web search engine Google Inc. is going to reach $1.67 billion in its initial public offering on Thursday selling 19.6 million shares at $85 each. Still, analysts consider shares to be overpriced.
US mortgage applications climbed 12 percent last week as the lowest mortgage rates in four months prompted consumers to buy homes and refinance loans.
McDonald #39;s took further steps to jazz things up for its customers Wednesday, unveiling a new cashless payment service and expanding the test of deli-style sandwiches at US restaurants.
The 30-company Philippine Stock Exchange Index ended up 16.90 points, or 1.1 percent, at 1,573.27, after giving up 2.4 percent in the past two sessions, including Wednesday #39;s 0.7 percent loss.
BERLIN, Aug 19 (Reuters) - Germany #39;s financial watchdog said on Thursday it was looking into recent trading by US financial services group Citigroup (CN: Quote, Profile, Research) in European government bond and derivative markets, but had not started a ...
LONDON (Reuters) - Retail sales fell more than expected in July and for the first time in over a year as poor weather pushed down clothing sales sharply.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Crude prices near record highs will again mute any advance in U.S. stocks at the market's open on Thursday, but investors will get a diversion as Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; begins trading after its initial public offering.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices struck a fresh record high above $47.50 a barrel on Thursday as fresh evidence of demand growth in China and India underlined how rising appetite for oil is straining the world's supply system.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Grocer Winn-Dixie Stores Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WIN.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;WIN.N&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday reported a quarterly loss as restructuring costs weighed on results, but said its efforts to reverse a market share slide are gaining momentum.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Clothing retailer Limited Brands Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LTD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LTD.N&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday posted a sharply higher quarterly profit, lifted by a rise in sales at stores open at least a year.
New market set as demand in China, India intensifies supply worries, Iraq lends price support. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Oil prices blazed past $47.50 a barrel and set fresh highs early Thursday as demand growth in China and India exacerbated supply shortage ...
HONG KONG : Hutchison Whampoa, the ports-to-telecoms conglomerate owned by Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing, reported its first half net profit rose 106 percent to HK $12.5b (US $1.6b).
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices struck a fresh record high above $47.50 a barrel on Thursday as fresh evidence of demand growth in China and India underlined how rising appetite for oil is straining the world's supply system.
Reuters - Shares of Synopsys Inc. (SNPS.O), a semiconductor design software maker, tumbled before the bell on Thursday, a day after the company reported lower quarterly net income and said results in the current quarter would be below Wall Street estimates.
Governments around the region are warning that rising oil prices have started to hurt their economies.
Virgin Group today announced plans to expand its mobile phone services to China in a $300m (154m) joint venture with a Chinese company.
The Swedish company Gambro AB will sell a division to an El Segundo company for $3.05 billion in cash. Gambro Healthcare US, the division being sold, operates clinics for patients undergoing kidney dialysis and has 565 clinics and 43,200 patients.
Planned job cuts at US firms climbed during November, a report said on Tuesday, in a further sign of sluggishness in the labor market.
The retail sector overall may be reporting a sluggish start to the season, but holiday shoppers are scooping up iPods, DVDs, digital cameras and other tech goods at a brisk pace -- and they
Reuters - Nortel Networks Corp. (NT.TO) delivered long-awaited preliminary results for the first half of 2004 on Thursday that showed estimated first and second quarter earnings between nil and 1 cent per share, and North America's biggest telecom equipment supplier said it would cut about 3,500 jobs.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Clothing retailer Limited Brands Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LTD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LTD.N&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday posted sharply higher quarterly earnings on gains from the sale of its stake in Galyans Trading Co. and strong customer response to sales events early in the quarter.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Telecommunications equipment maker Ciena Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CIEN.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;CIEN.O&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday reported a wider loss for the fiscal third quarter due to slack demand and forecast sales in the current quarter would be little changed from the third quarter.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar traded near this week's four-week lows against the euro and yen on Thursday ahead of U.S. jobless claims and a key business survey that dealers expect to provide further clues about the interest rate outlook.
World Trade Center leaseholder Silverstein Properties Inc. could collect $4.68 billion in insurance payments after the jury in the second phase of the WTC property insurance litigation decided that the Sept.
On the cusp of its voyage into public trading, Google #39;s initial stock price was set at $85 and its market value calculated at $23 billion - less than originally expected, but still impressive for a 6-year-old dot-com dreamed up in a garage.
Jewelry and accessories retailer Claire #39;s Stores Inc. reported Thursday that second-quarter earnings rose 48 percent to beat Wall Street expectations, and guided above estimates for the fourth-quarter and fiscal year periods.
SAN JOSE, California - Initial shares of Google Inc. were priced late last night at $85 US each -- the low end of estimates that the company had revised downward hours earlier.
ZURICH, Aug 19 (Reuters) - Top Swiss telecoms group Swisscom (SCMN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research) confirmed takeover talks with neighbouring Telekom Austria (TELA.VI: Quote, Profile, Research) had ended without result, the group said on Thursday, crushing ...
AP - Shares of Japan's troubled supermarket chain Daiei Inc. soared 27 percent Thursday following reports that U.S. giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. planned to submit a proposal for turning the company around.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Nortel Networks Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.TO&lt;/A&gt; &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.TO&lt;/A&gt; posted long-awaited preliminary results for the first half of 2004 on Thursday, estimating first and second quarter earnings between nil and 1 cent per share.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices struck a fresh record on Thursday, spurred higher by renewed violence in Iraq and fresh evidence that strong demand growth in China and India has not been slowed yet by higher energy costs.
LONDON (Reuters) - European stocks shrugged off new peaks in crude oil prices and moved slightly higher on Thursday with technology firms leading the advance, while bonds and the dollar were steady.
Retail sales fell 0.4 in July - the first monthly decline in over a year - but the underlying trend remains strong, official figures showed today.
SAN JOSE, California (AP)--On the cusp of its voyage into public trading, Google #39;s initial stock price was set at $85 and its market value calculated at $23 billion--less than originally expected, but still impressive for a 6-year-old dot-com ...
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Commercial truck maker Navistar International Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NAV.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NAV.N&lt;/A&gt; said on Thursday quarterly earnings rose as it boosted sales and controlled costs.
Reuters - The number of Americans filing first claims for jobless pay fell 3,000 last week, the Labor Department said on Thursday in a report showing no impact from Hurricane Charley which struck Florida last Friday.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The number of Americans filing first claims for jobless pay fell 3,000 last week, the Labor Department said on Thursday in a report showing no impact from Hurricane Charley which struck Florida last Friday.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices struck a fresh record on Thursday, spurred higher by renewed violence in Iraq and fresh evidence that strong demand growth in China and India has not been slowed yet by higher energy costs.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of DeVry Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DV.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DV.N&lt;/A&gt;, a provider of business and technical education, fell before the bell on Thursday, a day after it reported fourth-quarter earnings that came in just shy of analysts' expectations.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices struck a fresh record on Thursday, spurred higher by renewed violence in Iraq and fresh evidence that strong demand growth in China and India has not been slowed yet by higher energy costs.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Nortel Networks Corp. (NT.TO: Quote, Profile, Research) posted long-awaited preliminary results for the first half of 2004 on Thursday, estimating first and second quarter earnings between nil and 1 cent per share.
Clothing retailer Limited Brands, whose chains include the Limited, Express, Victoria #39;s Secret and Bath amp; Body Works, posted a sharply higher quarterly profit on Thursday. The company saw a rise in sales at stores open at least a year. Its shares closed ...
HONG KONG Cheung Kong (Holdings), the holding company of the billionaire Li Ka-shing, said Thursday that first-half profit almost doubled, spurred by higher earnings from its Hutchison Whampoa unit and a surge in property sales.
PARMALAT, the bankrupt Italian food company, is suing outside auditors Grant Thornton and Deloitte amp; Touche, seeking 5.5 billion in damages.
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits edged down last week for a third consecutive time, signaling that the labor market may be improving after hitting a speed bump in June and July.
AP - Shares of Japan's troubled supermarket chain Daiei Inc. soared 27 percent Thursday following reports that U.S. giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. planned to submit a proposal for turning the company around.
Reuters - Shares of Google Inc. (GOOG.O) rose 15 percent to #36;98 in the first minutes of their Nasdaq stock market debut on Thursday after the year's most anticipated initial public offering priced far below initial estimates.
Reuters - Output at U.S. Mid-Atlantic factories slowed in August as new orders dropped sharply, suggesting recent weakness in the economy is likely to persist into coming months.
Reuters - Interest rates on U.S. 30-year mortgages stayed under 6 percent for a third straight week, mortgage finance company Freddie Mac said on Thursday, remaining at their lowest averages since early April.
AP - A closely watched measure of future economic activity fell in July for the second consecutive month, reinforcing evidence that the nation's financial recovery is slackening.
AP - The Securities and Exchange Commission announced Thursday that a top staffer overseeing the #36;7.6 trillion mutual-fund industry will step down for a private-sector position.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; rose 15 percent to $98 in the first minutes of their Nasdaq stock market debut on Thursday after the year's most anticipated initial public offering priced far below initial estimates.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Output at U.S. Mid-Atlantic factories slowed in August as new orders dropped sharply, suggesting recent weakness in the economy is likely to persist into coming months.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Thursday as investor worries about high energy costs hurting corporate profits kept indexes lower after oil prices broke through $48 a barrel.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A federal appeals court on Thursday delivered a stinging blow to the anti-piracy efforts of major movie studios and music companies by ruling several Internet file-sharing software companies are not liable for copyright infringement.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Nortel Networks Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.TO&lt;/A&gt; &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NT.TO target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NT.TO&lt;/A&gt; earned stock market applause on Thursday as it slashed more jobs, released on-target profit estimates, and took steps to clean up its accounting mess.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Commercial truck maker Navistar International Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NAV.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NAV.N&lt;/A&gt; reported higher quarterly earnings on Thursday, but its shares fell more than 5 percent as the market focused on lower-than-expected profit from its core manufacturing operations.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - United Airlines, which has said it plans to miss nearly $500 million in pension contributions this fall, said in bankruptcy court papers it likely will be necessary to cancel and replace all of its pension plans.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Shares of Medtronic Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MDT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MDT.N&lt;/A&gt; fell on Thursday as the company's fiscal first-quarter results, released after the market closed on Wednesday, failed to inspire investors.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Petsmart Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PETM.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PETM.O&lt;/A&gt;, the top U.S. pet supplies chain, on Thursday said quarterly earnings rose on improved pet services sales, but its stock sank as much as 12 percent as results lagged analysts' expectations.
Shortly before noon today, Google Inc. stock began trading under the ticker symbol GOOG on the Nasdaq stock market. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-The Washington Post&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
Crude futures climbed above $48 a barrel Thursday as market fears of sabotage against the Iraqi oil infrastructure outweighed assurances from Baghdad that exports would increase in coming days.
France and Germany's market watchdogs say they are looking into Citigroup bond trades already under scrutiny in the UK.
Ireland is poised to grow faster with a smaller deficit thanks to the global economic recovery, the government says.
US internet giant Amazon.com is buying China's largest web retailer Joyo.com, in a deal worth $75m (41m).
Europe's bigger economies register yet more productivity growth, while the UK starts to fall behind.
Apple is recalling 28,000 faulty batteries for its 15-inch Powerbook G4 laptops.
Irish airline Aer Lingus offers workers at least 40,000 euros each to take voluntary redundancy under cost cutting plans.
Indian conglomerate Tata is to invest $2bn in a power plant in Bangladesh, the country's single largest foreign investment ever.
Oil prices struck a fresh record today on violence in Iraq and evidence that strong demand growth in China and India has not slowed due to higher energy costs.
A closely watched measure of future economic activity fell in July for the second consecutive month, reinforcing evidence that the nation's financial recovery is slackening.
Google begins trading. Finally. Bill Mann's pretty tired of the navel-gazing.
Claire's Stores continue to crank up sales and get more profitable along the way.
Coca-Cola lets basketball star LeBron James create a new version of Powerade.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Kroger Co., the top U.S. grocer, on Tuesday posted a 29 percent rise in quarterly profit due to cost controls, but price cuts to lure shoppers caused earnings to miss Wall Street estimates and shares fell.
Seiko Epson hopes the tiny robot will help in security, disaster and rescue and space exploration. Also: Apple recalls batteries from its 15-inch PowerBook G4 laptops hellip;. Sony unveils eight new flat-screen TVs hellip;. and more.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were slightly higher on Tuesday, with lower oil prices helping support markets, but Johnson Johnson &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JNJ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JNJ.N&lt;/A&gt; dragged on the Dow following a report of a possible $24 billion takeover of cardiovascular device maker Guidant Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GDT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GDT.N&lt;/A&gt;.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar fell to a new record low against the euro on Tuesday as investors, tiring of tough talk on exchange rates by European officials, dismissed new warnings from euro zone officials.
Reuters - A federal appeals court on Thursday delivered a stinging blow to the anti-piracy efforts of major movie studios and music companies, ruling that several major online file-sharing software companies are not liable for copyright infringement.
NEW YORK/SEATTLE (Reuters) - Shares of Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; made their long-awaited stock market debut on Thursday, rising more than 20 percent to over $100 after an initial public offering marked by missteps and lackluster market conditions.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A federal appeals court on Thursday delivered a stinging blow to the anti-piracy efforts of major movie studios and music companies, ruling that several major online file-sharing software companies are not liable for copyright infringement.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks tumbled on Thursday as oil prices marched above $48 a barrel, but Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; provided some excitement after shares of the Internet search company surged on their debut.
The bookseller beats core earnings estimates and raises its full-year guidance.
Reuters - U.S. stocks ended lower on Thursday as oil prices climbed above #36;48 a barrel, prompting investor worry about the effect of high fuel costs on corporate profits and consumer demand.
Reuters - Most senior executives at large U.S. companies plan to increase hiring and investments over the next 12 months amid growing optimism about the economy, according to a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers released on Thursday.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A federal appeals court on Thursday delivered a stinging blow to the anti-piracy efforts of major movie studios and music companies, ruling that several online file-sharing software companies are not liable for copyright infringement.
MILAN (Reuters) - Parmalat on Thursday fired off the latest lawsuit in its bid to recover billions of euros from banks that did deals with the now insolvent dairy group, suing CSFB for about 250 million euros.
Italian food giant Parmalat is pushing ahead with plans to sue its former auditors by taking CSFB to task over a bond deal back in 2002.
