CanWest Global Communications Corp. has hired five top executives of US media companies including former vice-presidents of Time Warner, the New York Times and Playboy magazine in an apparent bid to boost its convergence play.
AP - Police arrested a man for allegedly throwing acid in a Pakistani courtroom on Monday, injuring his brother-in-law and four other people with burns, an official said.
A top Iranian cleric expressed optimism Friday that Iran #39;s nuclear case might not be referred to the United Nations Security Council, the official IRNA news agency reported.
A row over intellectual property claims from Microsoft Corp. has dealt a fatal blow to an ambitious effort by Internet engineers to create a technical standard for curbing junk e-mail.
Gov. Rod Blagojevich has taken an aggressive stand on exposure of Illinoiss minors to violent and sexually explicit video games, by proposing a ban on the sale of the video games.
Computer security giant Symantec Corp. has agreed to buy the storage and backup program maker Veritas Software Corp. for about $13.5 billion in stock in a deal that would create a massive software company that provides a wide range of programs to secure and protect networks and computers.
Cyber threats, chiefly viruses like NetSky and Sasser, make security an ongoing concern as it holds steady over software infrastructure as the third top priority.
SCOTTIE Pippen, one of the members of the legendary Chicago Bulls team which scooped six NBA titles in the 1990s, announced his retirement today.
Blaring disconnection melody in some Siemens phones could potentially cause ear damage.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Neither 12 years in the league nor nine trips to the Pro Bowl could prepare Willie Roaf for what he did, saw and felt on this history-making day.
North Korea says last week #39;s massive explosion in a remote area of the country #39;s north was the result of deliberate demolition work.
In the UEFA Cup, in Group A, Feyenoord assured it would progress to the final knock-out stages with a 2-1 home win against Schalke.
AP - Prime Minister Tony Blair said Monday the Sudanese government must end the violence in its western region of Darfur or face possible action by the United Nations.
Embracing a new gadget indubitably means parting with some hard earned dinero. But eMachines, purchased by Gateway Inc. , is offering next-generation technology at this-generation prices.
Computers built with Advanced Micro Devices' Opteron processor soon will be able to take advantage of the same power management technology the company has already built into its laptop and desktop microchips.
Looks like Martha Stewart #39;s time in the slammer will be something of a cakewalk. The homemaking maven, also known as inmate 55170-054, has been assigned to her third choice of prison, in Alderson
A battle over next-generation disc standards could create a rift in console game storage. Which side are you on? There are few who contest the fact that the acceptance of CD-ROM and then DVD-ROM standards
Bernie Ecclestone once said money did not make him happy. So it must have been a particularly miserable moment when the man who has been the dominant force behind Formula One motor racing for 30 years learned he was the third-richest person in Britain.
WASHINGTON, Washington, United States of America -- The first known lawsuit against instant-message spam, sometimes called spim, was announced by America Online as part of a campaign to stem unwanted computer messages.
Top seed and home favourite Marat Safin was bundled out of the Kremlin Cup in the second round 7-6, 4-6, 6-3 by unseeded Czech Radek Stepanek.
Microsoft released a quot;cumulative security update quot; for Internet Explorer (MS04-38) that plugs eight holes in the popular browser, as well as six other unique patches for vulnerabilities that the company rated as critical.
Reuters - New Orleans Hornets forward Jamal Mashburn will sit out the 2004-05 season due to a patella femoral irritation of his right knee.
Murdoch is battling Malone to keep a tight grip on News Corp. -- and benefit heirs, if not shareholders
Counting of ballots began in Afghanistan Thursday, five days after the country #39;s first direct elections for president, the BBC reported.
Union leaders today called for an inquiry into a massive computer crash which disabled the government #39;s benefits system, forcing civil servants to write out giro cheques by hand.
CRICKET Australia cannot rule out withdrawing the invitation for the West Indies to play in this summer #39;s one-day tournament if the players #39; contract dispute is not settled.
TORONTO -- Housing starts in Canada were up in August to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 241,500 according to Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp.
Online retailer Amazon and Microsoft have teamed up to sue a Canadian spamming operation the companies allege is responsible for sending millions of forged e-mails claiming to have come from Amazon.
TOKYO - Scientists from Fujitsu Ltd. and The University of Tokyo have developed a laser that is capable of maintaining a stable output over a wide temperature range at speeds and frequencies useful for optical communications, the research team said Friday. The device could enable the creation of optical networking equipment that is smaller, cheaper and consumes less power than current devices, the leader of the research team said.
Open-source developers attempting to reverse-engineer the mysteries of private networking software turn to genomics research. They're applying algorithms developed by biologists to decipher the secrets of closed networks. By Danny O'Brien.
warplanes criss-crossed the skies. Troops took up positions in empty buildings on the Sunni Muslim city #39;s southern perimeter. A civilian driver was shot dead near a US checkpoint on the highway, witnesses said.
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Nov. 14 - This late in the year, the direct sunlight leaves the field early at Giants Stadium, even on the brightest days.
BELFAST (Reuters) - Gerry Adams, leader of the Irish Republican Army's (IRA) political ally Sinn Fein, signaled on Sunday that the guerrilla group was ready to give up its arms, but only if a new Northern Ireland peace deal can be struck.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil extended its retreat from record highs on Thursday, taking two-day losses to six percent after an unexpectedly large rise in U.S. crude inventories spurred speculative funds to take profits.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Computer Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AAPL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AAPL.O&lt;/A&gt; on Friday said customers of its iTunes online music store can now use eBay Inc.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=EBAY.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;EBAY.O&lt;/A&gt; online payment service PayPal to buy songs and audio books, becoming the second major online music store to do so.
Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, cancelled a weekend visit to attend the closing ceremony of the Olympics, prompting Greek Communists to claim it as a victory for anti-American protests.
Hyperion Solutions, a vendor of business intelligence applications, will announce at its Solutions 2004 Hyperion International Conference in Paris this week, Essbase 7X, a greatly enhanced version of its analytic suite.
Major creditors holding billions in claims on Tuesday supported plans by US Airways (UAIRQ.OB: Quote, Profile, Research) to void labor contracts covering thousands
Reuters - Business software maker Oracle Corp. on Tuesday promised to do everything it can to keep PeopleSoft Inc.'s giant customer base, whose departure could threaten the financial success of its proposed #36;9.2 billion takeover of PeopleSoft.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Advanced Micro Devices Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMD.N&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday reported a $44 million third-quarter profit from a loss a year earlier, and predicted sales growth in the current quarter because of better-than-expected demand for its personal computers processors.
JOHANNESBURG : South Africa #39;s Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd. said it would bid for control of Gold Fields Ltd, valuing it at 8.1 billion dollars (6.
NEW YORK : Storms, skyrocketing fuel prices, cutthroat competition and labor costs have shaped turbulent times for US airlines, and the troubles are starting to trickle down to the low-cost carriers.
Atomic clocks may be headed into cell phones, thanks to a breakthrough by federal researchers. Scientists at the National Institute of Standards and Technology have demonstrated the heart of an atomic clock
Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL.O: Quote, Profile, Research) shares jumped as much as 16 percent on Monday, to their highest level in more than 4 years, after a Wall Street analyst nearly doubled his price target on the stock.
The luxury hotel manager doubles earnings for the second straight quarter.
Any suggestions the Czech Republic lacked the necessary commitment to advance in the World Cup of Hockey were erased yesterday when it stunned an overwhelmed Swedish team in Stockholm.
The first commercial flight from the United States to Vietnam since the war nearly 30 years ago has taken off from San Francisco. The new service to Ho Chi Minh City, run by United Airlines, will fly daily.
CHARLESTON, S.C. - Rain doused the South Carolina coast early Sunday as Tropical Storm Gaston, just under hurricane strength, picked up speed and pushed ashore...
WASHINGTON - A top Homeland Security official has apologized to Sen. Edward M...
AP - The bright green rocks jutting through the prairie soil were hard to miss, but Tom Charlton still couldn't believe his eyes.
At the SoftSummit conference, debate over subscription pricing, discounting and licensing practices comes alive.
NEW YORK - Time Warner Inc. and Comcast Corp. said they are exploring a potential joint bid for Adelphia Communications Corp., the troubled cable company that put itself on the block as part of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding.
US stock-index futures declined. Dow Jones Industrial Average shares including General Electric Co. slipped in Europe. Citigroup Inc.
Hi-tech criminals are stealing key business data and ransoming it back to the firms they stole it from, say police.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The price of a gallon of gasoline in the United States fell over the last two weeks during a seasonally slow consumption period, according to an industry analyst.
FORMULA Ones teams last night put on a united front to come to the rescue of the British Grand Prix with a 20 million package that should put the nations most important motor race back on the calendar next year.
Reuters - A man Al Arabiya television said was negotiating the release of two French journalists held hostage in Iraq said on Tuesday he met the two Frenchmen and that an agreement had been reached to free them soon.
Telecommunications equipment maker Motorola Inc. said Tuesday that it would cut 1,000 jobs and take charges of about $50 million for severance benefits as part of a drive to increase productivity.
Euphoria turned into shock and grief minutes after the Subway 500 yesterday, as members of the winning Hendrick Motorsports team were informed that one of the organization #39;s
NEW YORK - Cisco Systems Inc. said Monday it has agreed to acquire Sunnyvale, California, software developer P-Cube Inc. in a cash-and-options deal Cisco valued at $200 million.
At least five workers die as a site under construction at Dubai airport collapses, trapping workers.
The software company reveals details of update to its flagship Java development tool, JBuilder 2005, available next month.
SN30952 writes quot;An adult sex toy shut down a key regional airport for almost an hour today when it was mistaken for a bomb, Queensland police said.
England vice-captain Mike Tindall insists the world champions will be motivated by a sense of payback when they tackle Australia at Twickenham next Saturday.
Palestinian militant group Hamas vowed Tuesday to keep up its armed resistance against Israeli occupation in the West Bank and Gaza.
Secretary of State Colin Powell said on Sunday there was still time to resolve a nuclear crisis with North Korea through six-party talks despite Pyongyang #39;s refusal to resume the negotiations.
It #39;s getting very tight at the top of the Bundesliga with wins for Bayern Munich and Schalke 04 cutting Wolfsburg #39;s lead to just one point.
Dell continued to outpace the rest of the IT industry in the company #39;s third quarter with sizzling growth in shipments, revenue, and net income adding up to the best quarter yet for the hardware supplier.
High prices for commodities and agricultural goods on international markets helped Brazil post a $3.17 billion trade surplus in September, the trade and development ministry said Friday.
Doctors in Germany have rebuilt a man #39;s face after growing a new jaw on his back, it has been revealed. By the fourth week after receiving the pioneering transplant, the patient was able to enjoy his first solid meal for nine years.
SBC Communications said it will cut DSL prices to just $19.95 a month for people who sign up for its full unlimited local and long-distance phone plans. Broadband Blog
A ban on hunting critically endangered black rhinoceros has been lifted by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, The Telegraph reported.
Chicago Tribune - A Texas grand jury on Tuesday indicted three political fundraisers with ties to House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Texas) for allegedly funneling illegal corporate campaign donations to Republican candidates for state office.
About 5,000 people marched Monday from Wellington #39;s Civic Square to Parliament to protest against proposed legislation giving gay relationships legal recognition.
ATHENS, Greece - The Mississippian few thought would make the US Olympic team nearly won gold Monday in the 400 meters. Otis Harris of Edwards had the lead rounding the final turn of the one-lap sprint but
Peoplesoft, the software company under siege from a hostile $7.7bn (4.3bn) bid by its larger rival Oracle, yesterday sacked its chief executive, Craig Conway, increasing
The Israel Defense Forces moved out of the northern Gaza Strip yesterday, ending a four-day operation in which eight Palestinians were killed, including a 9-year-old boy, and about 50 Palestinians were wounded.
Bee Staff Writer. ALAMEDA - Raiders starting running back Tyrone Wheatley says he #39;ll be out up to a month - not that the team wants you to know.
SEATTLE - Seahawks cornerback Ken Lucas spent the night in a San Francisco hospital with a bruised lung. Coach Mike Holmgren says the injury was similar to what car accident victims experience when they are hit in the chest by the steering wheel.
AP - New England Patriots wide receiver Deion Branch will miss his sixth straight game because of a knee injury.
: Chinas freshly retired military leader Jiang Zemin threw his weight behind his successor Hu Jintao today and advised the armed forces never to renounce the use of force to reclaim Taiwan.
Shops and businesses have reopened in the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu, after the authorities lifted a curfew imposed last Wednesday.
Canadian Press - ABUJA, Nigeria (AP) - Plainclothes police detained a prominent Nigerian labour leader Saturday, bundling him into a car at an airport in an apparent effort to stop a threatened countrywide strike by oil-industry workers in Africa's largest petroleum exporter, his union said.
President George W Bush launched his first fence-mending mission since his re-election yesterday, flying to Canada to improve a distinctly prickly relationship with one of America #39;s oldest and most natural allies.
As expected, Intel has introduced a 3.8GHz Pentium 4 processor in what could represent the end of an era for the chip maker. The Pentium 4 570 processor at 3.8GHz will have the fastest clock speed of any processor
Software maker Oracle will soon start issuing security patches quarterly. This new patch schedule comes only months after the company said it would issue such security updates every month.
AP - Many states are facing legal challenges over possible voting problems Nov. 2. A look at some of the developments Monday:
roundup Plus: Yahoo launches local-search engine...Sybase links back office to mobile devices...Legal expert joins open-source screening firm...Cray signs two supercomputing customers.
AP - The top overall draft choice in the 1999 draft by Cleveland, Tim Couch was released by the Browns in June. He joined the Packers and was projected as Brett Favre's backup. But the quarterback never progressed, and the Packers cut him Sunday as teams got down to the 53-man roster limit for the regular season.
Site Offer Making applications secure has been one of the biggest priorities for Microsoft developers. However, very few books have been written for developers; most security books are aimed at administrators.
AP - Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards called for changes to prescription drug programs and praised running mate John Kerry's military and government service at an outdoor campaign rally here Saturday.
Walt Disney #39;s perennially slumping ABC Television Network is suddenly a champ again thanks to a couple of unexpected hit shows including a prime time soap called Desperate Housewives (coming to the UK in January).
2004-12-15 11:01:48 Oil - Brent higher on US cold snap ahead of this afternoon #39;s US inventories LONDON (AFX) - Oil prices were higher in pre-market deals ahead of this afternoon #39;s US weekly inventory data, with winter heating oil
The first wild condor chick to take flight in California in 22 years sailed into the skies over Ventura County last month. The young bird was hatched April 9 near Hopper Mountain National Wildlife Refuge.
SEOUL, South Korea - A large explosion occurred in the northern part of North Korea, sending a plume of smoke more than two miles wide into the air on an important anniversary of the communist regime, a South Korean news agency reported Sunday. Secretary of State Colin Powell said the explosion Thursday was not a nuclear test but that it was not known yet what caused it...
Sep. 15, 2004. Less than a month after its rival KDE rolled out its newest open-source desktop, the Gnome Project Wednesday debuted out Gnome 2.8, the latest iteration of its graphical interfaces for Linux.
NEW YORK - Internet marketer DoubleClick Inc., which is suffering from pricing pressures from online advertisers, said it had hired Lazard Freres amp; Co.
The online postage service offers a chance to put personal pictures on official stamps.
The large US current account deficit is a matter of concern, and policy changes are needed to address existing global imbalances, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Rodrigo de Rato said.
Generali Ladies Open: Top-seeded Amelie Mauresmo rallied past Jelena Jankovic 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 yesterday to advance to the final in Linz, Austria, against Elena Bovina.
ATHENS Cuba captured its third gold medal in Olympic baseball on Wednesday, beating Australia by 6-2 as Frederich Cepeda hit a two-run homer for the Cubans.
Does Your Copy Look "Fake" To the Search Engines? From the early days of search engine optimization, keywords and content have always been vital to achieving your goals. Starting back in the days when we used to shove every slightly relevant keyword into our Meta tags, it has been obvious that ...
CARACAS, Venezuela (Reuters) - Venezuela's left-wing President Hugo Chavez on Monday declared victory in a historic recall referendum on his rule, but his opponents vowed to challenge vote results they rejected as a "gigantic fraud."
Jon Gruden isn #39;t happy, and he admitted as much Monday morning. But at least the Bucs coach can look forward to something. Running back Michael
HAVANA -- At first glance, Havana's Chinatown seems a misnomer. Restaurants serve pizza, and actual Chinese are vastly outnumbered by tourists and Hispanics.
Brian McBride and debutant Eddie Johnson gave the United States a 2-0 victory over El Salvador in their World Cup qualifier on Saturday.
Reuters - India said on Wednesday that a proposed #36;4-billion gas pipeline from Iran via Pakistan could be built only if overall economic ties with Islamabad improved, but Pakistan said the project itself could boost relations.
Holder Tim Henman, beaten 7-5, 6-1 at the Paris Masters by Russian Mikhail Youzhny in the third round Friday, has turned his sights toward the Masters Cup.
Vitali Klitschko of Ukraine stopped Danny Williams of Britain in the eighth round to retain his World Boxing Council heavyweight crown in Las Vegas on Saturday.
Bee Staff Writer. Sean Harrigan, ousted from the board of the California Public Employees #39; Retirement System, is lobbying for a return to the powerful pension fund, but his campaign does
AP - It's been a few decades since anyone recorded my mile splits as I bounded over hill and dale, immersed in running's intoxicating rhythm.
CAIRO (Reuters) - Deposed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein is depressed and has begged the Iraqi government for mercy, Iraq's Prime Minister Iyad Allawi said in an interview published Monday.
I #39;ve received lots of e-mail from readers who disagreed with my dissing of the combination laptop and Tablet PC I reviewed Tuesday (catch up online at www.
Ingram Micro Inc. today announced during a conference call that it has entered into an agreement that will increase its reach in the Asia Pacific region.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Serena Williams came back from a set and two breaks down to beat Anastasia Myskina 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 on the opening night of group play at the WTA Championships Wednesday.
The 11th meeting of finance ministers of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC) concluded on Friday, highlighting the role of governments and financial institutions
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hong Kong's main pro-democracy party demanded on Monday a partial recount of the vote in the city's legislative elections, after officials had failed to announce a single result eight hours after polls closed.
The chances of another rise in interest rates faded today as mortgage lending slowed to its lowest level for a year during August.
Svetlozar Nestorov #39;s Mobissimo aims to make the Web #39;s massive travel deals and info much more accessible. He #39;s off to a good start.
A Houston jury has reached a verdict Wednesday in the conspiracy and fraud trial of six defendants connected to a sham deal to illicitly boost Enron Corp.
Company, one of the core backers of Blu-ray, will also support its rival format. Thomson, one of the core backers of the Blu-ray Disc format for high-definition video discs, plans to offer players supporting
Jose Mourinho will relish the hostile reception he will receive from the fans who used to adore him when he takes his place in the dug-out at the Estadio Do Dragao.
AP - Congressional Democrats and dissident groups asked the Ohio Supreme Court on Monday to review the outcome of the state's presidential race, hours before the Ohio delegation to the Electoral College was to cast ballots for president and vice president.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - American International Group Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AIG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AIG.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's largest insurer by market value, on Monday said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may take civil action against it for issuing "false and misleading" statements to investors.
LONDON (Reuters) - A top Merrill Lynch official is due to testify on Wednesday over a 7.5 million pound ( $13.4 million) sex discrimination lawsuit brought against the U.S.-based investment bank by former executive Stephanie Villalba.
Hurricane Frances sends commodity prices soaring and depresses insurance stocks as it heads for the Florida coast.
Canadian Press - GAUHATI, India (AP) - Residents of northeastern India were bracing for more violence Friday, a day after bombs ripped through two buses and a grenade was hurled into a crowded market in attacks that killed four people and wounded 54.
Jacques Villeneuve will almost certainly race the final three grands prix of the season in a blue and yellow Renault. The out-of-work #39;97 world champion, dumped by BAR late last year, is at Silverstone on Wednesday to test Jarno Trulli #39;s R24 car.
AP - Republican House leaders expressed confidence Wednesday that they will be able to extend three popular tax cuts that are set to expire at the end of this year.
A deal to dismantle the IRA and revive Northern Irelands power-sharing administration is taking shape, SDLP leader Mark Durkan claimed today.
NEW YORK , Nov. 26 -- Stocks finished mixed Friday in a shortened session. The major indicators ended the week higher as investors looked forward to the results of the first weekend of holiday shopping and a jobs report next week.
IBM (Quote, Chart) is easing restrictions on its ISV (define) membership program, opening the door for more marketing and sales help for companies that make software based on IBM #39;s middleware platform.
Olympic 110 metres hurdles champion Liu Xiang of China and American Marion Jones have pulled out of Sunday #39;s Golden League meeting in Berlin, organisers said on Friday.
Description: The scramjet is a new plane that can fly at nearly 10 times the speed of sound. NASA conducted a successful test-flight Tuesday.
Secrecy shrouded a meeting of China #39;s Communist Party for a third day Saturday, but a Hong Kong newspaper added to speculation that military chief Jiang Zemin would
Japan #39;s ruling party is considering proposals to revise the constitution to let women take the throne, according to a draft seen by local media.
An Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Thursday night killed a leading weapons maker of Hamas who was responsible for some of the group #39;s most powerful bombs and its homemade rockets, Israel #39;s military said.
Those of you who try to follow the Bundesliga by checking the German media will come off a confusing week, as there was very little talk of football.
General Motors Corp and the Ford Motor Co will offer anti-rollover technology as standard equipment on 1.8 million of their SUVs next year, in a sweeping adoption of the safety technology.
CHARLOTTE - The storyline couldnt had been written any better for the Charlotte Bobcats Tuesday night in their first meeting with the New Orleans Hornets.
AP - Iraq can learn from the recent history of El Salvador, a country wrecked by civil war that has developed into stable democracy and close U.S. ally, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Thursday.
The education policy of the Bush administration is founded on two pillars: standardized testing and charter schools. However, as reported in this New York Times article (see also the audio archive at NPR or nonsubscription coverage at the Boston Globe) , the US Department of Education's own testing data show that nationwide, charter schools are, in aggregate, lagging their public counterparts.
PlanetOut Inc. showed a small gain in morning activity before shooting up more than 15 percent in recent trading, marking a successful initial public offering for the Web site operator while Thursday #39;s second deal fell flat in its debut.
A bankruptcy court judge on Friday granted United Airlines (UALAQ.OB: Quote, Profile, Research) another 30-day extension to file its reorganization plan.
KUALA LUMPUR - Malaysia Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi promised on Thursday to implement a moderate Islamic administration, undercutting the fundamentalist opposition, and took a swipe at his one-time rival, former deputy leader Anwar Ibrahim.
An apparent whistleblower is generating buzz by saying a Florida official sought vote-changing software, but cautious observers say there's plenty of room for doubt. By Kim Zetter.
Magnus Hedman admitted he was lucky not to hand Hibs a point on a day when nerves got the better of the Celtic goalkeeper. In the end he had two-goal hero John Hartson to thank for putting Celtic back on top
AP - Olli Jokinen of the Florida Panthers scored twice and teammate Ville Peltonen added two goals and an assist, leading Finland to a 4-2 victory over Germany in a World Cup of Hockey exhibition game Thursday.
AP - Demonstrating he retains firm control over Cuba after fracturing his knee and arm in a fall at a public event, President Fidel Castro told of conducting government business by cellular phone during an ambulance ride and later refusing general anesthesia.
The last time they saw each other, John Kerry was sitting in the Red Sox owner #39;s box on the eve of the Democratic National Convention and the front
Several thousand Israeli settlers and supporters demonstrate, during a rally against Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon #39;s planned pullout and evacuation of Gaza Strip Jewish settlements, near Sharon #39;s residence, in Jerusalem, Thursday, Oct. 14, 2004.
AP - After Red Herring sank into the dot-com morass last year, Tony Perkins considered resurrecting the magazine that helped establish him as a Silicon Valley sage. He changed his mind when his college-age daughter scoffed and told him "Red Herring is so 1990s."
U.S. sprinter Torri Edwards is knocked out of the Olympics for good Tuesday when an arbitration panel upholds her two-year drug suspension.
Los Angeles, CA (Sports Network) - Rick Majerus accepted an offer to become the head basketball coach at Southern California and was introduced Wednesday afternoon.
Yahoo Local Out of Beta This morning, while driving to work, I heard a radio commercial for Yahoo! Local. They simply said, go to Yahoo and click on the local link. Unfortunately, it took me several seconds to scan the Yahoo home page to locate the Local link, buried with the ...
A man died from asthma after being bitten several times by his pet hamster in a city north of Tokyo, the Mainichi Shimbun reported Tuesday.
Barry Bonds hits his 700th home run Friday night, toppling another milestone and edging closer to Babe Ruth and Hank Aaron with a blast off of San Diego's Jake Peavy.
Some web logs were swift to provide dark theories about the presidential election, but others were just as quick to debunk them.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Leading wireless carriers and telecoms equipment makers have agreed to develop an advanced mobile phone standard capable of sending high-resolution video in an instant, Japan's NTT DoCoMo said on Friday.
The AFL-CIO and a Boston-based consumer advocacy group sued AstraZeneca yesterday, accusing the drug manufacturer of deceptively selling doctors and patients on the idea that Nexium, the nation's most heavily advertised prescription drug, is an improved purple pill.
Rising sea levels could put many of Northern Irelands most vulnerable coastal areas under threat if carbon dioxide emissions are not cut immediately, a new report has claimed.
Computer Associates International Inc. will acquire Netegrity Inc. in a $430 million cash deal that will merge the computer security software makers, the companies said Wednesday.
The European Union closed antitrust cases Tuesday against six major Hollywood studios after they agreed to drop clauses in contracts with pay television operators that the EU said keeps the price of films artificially high in Europe.
SAN FRANCISCO - Google looks set to start trading on the Nasdaq today after the web #39;s No 1 search engine asked regulators for final approval to price its closely watched initial public offering.
washingtonpost.com - After 18 months of lawsuits and very public wrangling, Oracle Corp. finally roped software rival PeopleSoft Inc., proof positive that Larry Ellison's hardball tactics would get his company just what it put at the top of its Christmas list.
KUALA LUMPUR (AFP) - Malaysia #39;s former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim has reiterated that there was no political deal to secure his freedom from prison but has promised to work for unity in Malaysia.
Reuters - Toronto Raptors All-Star swingman Vince Carter was placed on the injured list Friday after tests revealed a mild strain of his left Achilles' tendon.
Michael Vaughan has toasted England #39;s latest strategic plan after two of the new components starred in the win over India in the NatWest Challenge.
KABUL, Afghanistan - Three Americans - led by a former Green Beret who boasted he had Pentagon support - were found guilty Wednesday of torturing Afghans in a private jail and were sentenced to prison. After a 7 1/2-hour session in a stuffy Kabul courtroom, the three-judge panel was unanimous in convicting the former soldier, Jonathan Idema, and his right-hand man, Brent Bennett, on charges of entering Afghanistan illegally, making illegal arrests, establishing a private jail and torturing their captives...
BAGHDAD, Oct. 21 -- Two attacks on vehicles carrying Iraqi women to their jobs Thursday morning claimed the lives of six women and one man and severely wounded more than a dozen people, witnesses and government officials said.
Washington -- All of the human embryonic stem cells available to federally funded scientists under President Bush #39;s 3-year-old research policy share a previously unrecognized trait that fosters rejection by the immune systems, diminishing their potential
Chelsea moved into the fourth round of the Carling Cup thanks to Mateja Kezman #39;s first goal for the club. But there were unpleasant scenes towards the end of this closely fought contest when the
Pro baseball: AL Championship Series -- New York Yankees vs. Red Sox (Game 3) at Fenway Park, 8 p.m.
Robot Mars rover Spirit has so far been eclipsed in its mission by its quot;twin quot; Opportunity, which found rich evidence of a wet history at its landing site.
Company hopes to woo makers of music players and other devices with easy integration and trimmer drive.
US manufacturer Honeywell International Inc. (HON.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday bid $1.5 billion in cash for Britain #39;s Novar Plc
Search Engine Watch editor Danny Sullivan's recap of top search engine stories from October 2004.
A federal bankruptcy judge on Friday agreed to consider a motion by United Airlines to cancel its union contracts to save $725 million annually.
com senior editor. The family trees of NFL coaching staffs are often fascinating and worthy of deep study that usually reveals a lot about the head coach #39;s fundamental philosophies of offense, defense, drafting, etc.
SPACE.com - Flip a coin. Heads, Earth is a common sort of planet. Tails, and ours is as unusual as a coin landing on edge. That's about the state of knowledge for scientists who ponder the question of our planet's rarity.
AP - Spaniards used to say they lived in one of Europe's most racially tolerant countries. Soccer has shattered that myth. In Madrid's Santiago Bernabeu stadium #151; the Yankee Stadium of soccer #151; Spanish fans bellowed out monkey noises last week each time a black English player touched the ball in a match between England and Spain.
Toy company Marvel Enterprises Inc. on Thursday blamed a sharp drop in third-quarter profit on a tax swing in the period, but the company still beat Wall Street expectations as sales and license fees soared from sales of Spider-Man merchandise.
LONDON (Reuters) - World oil prices surged almost a dollar on Friday on worries that the ongoing storm season in the U.S. Gulf would continue to hamper energy production and imports, delaying vital pre-winter stock building.
France coach Raymond Domenech called up Juventus defender Jonathan Zebina for the first time to his squad for next month #39;s World Cup Group Four qualifiers against Ireland and Cyprus.
FPD (flat-panel display) makers from Taiwan, Japan and South Korea are competing for the spotlight at FPD International 2004 in Yokohama Japan (October 20-22).
AP - IN AN OCTOPUS'S NURSERY: Aurora, a female giant octopus who hit it off with an elderly male of the species at the Alaska Sealife Center in May, had been tending thousands of eggs ever since. Her sweetheart, J-1, died in September.
OSLO (Reuters) - An Algerian-born man attacked two pilots and a passenger with an axe on a domestic Norwegian flight Wednesday in an unexplained assault that police said could be linked to his asylum status.
BESLAN, Russia - A numb Russia observed the first national day of mourning for the hundreds of victims of the terrorist school seizure on Monday, while desperate families searched for the missing and foreign planes delivered medical supplies to this grief-stricken southern region neighboring Chechnya. In Beslan, townspeople crowded around the coffins of children, parents, grandparents and teachers ahead of the 120 burials scheduled in the town cemetery and adjoining fields...
The Toronto stock market was on positive ground this morning as energy stocks continued to benefit from record high oil prices that hit $53 (US) a barrel.
For the purist, watching basketball played at the Olympic level is a nice break from what #39;s become of the game in this country.
The Myanmar government released about 500 prisoners from the notorious Insein Prison Friday, witnesses said. There was no immediate word, however, on whether political detainees were among them.
Lewis Urry, the man who put the power in the Energizer Bunny #39;s long-lasting alkaline battery, died in Middleburg Heights, Ohio, after a short illness.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Most Americans are planning to curb their holiday spending this year, making it a challenging shopping season for U.S. retailers, according to a holiday buying survey by The NPD Group.
Chelsea were dead right - it #39;s bad enough that most of these lads are overpaid anyhow but when they abuse their position to, if you #39;ll pardon the pun, #39;rub our noses in it #39;, i #39;s out of order.
SIR Alex Ferguson has predicted Paul Scholes will end the season in double figures after finally breaking a 20-game goal drought at Old Trafford this afternoon.
They lined up hours before the game's release outside EB Games in San Francisco. "I want it as soon as possible," said one gamer. &lt;br /&gt; Photos: Halo 2 adventure begins
By LAURAN NEERGAARD WASHINGTON (AP) -- Half of Americans older than 50 will be at risk of fractures from too-thin bones by 2020, the surgeon general warned Thursday, urging people to get more calcium, vitamin D and exercise to avoid crippling osteoporosis. The bone-thinning disease is on the rise as the population grays - but weak bones aren't a natural consequence of aging, Surgeon General Richard Carmona stressed...
The dispute between the Prince of Wales and the Government over education intensified last night when a second Cabinet minister rebuked the prince for claiming the current system fuelled unrealistic ambitions.
between Thanksgiving and Christmas Eve last year, The Salvation Army raised nearly $40,000 from its signature Christmas kettles at five local Target stores.
Shares in the oil giant Yukos today continued to slide amid concerns that the Russian government would sell part of a key subsidiary cheaply in order to finance the company #39;s huge tax debt.
ATHENS - Kelly Holmes was not meant to win an Olympic title in Athens and Paula Radcliffe was. Holmes, try as she might, could still not grasp the way things had turned out on Monday for the two British team mates.
Two score and one year ago, Navy defeated Notre Dame on the football field. It hasn #39;t happened since. Today at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, NJ, an undefeated Navy squad seeks to break that
Dhaka, Aug 22. (PTI, UNI, AP): Angry opposition protestors set fire to a passenger train and clashed with police in southern Bangladesh today amid general strikes in several cities to protest the series of
Antivirus software company McAfee Inc. said on Monday that a new version of its VirusScan Enterprise software contains so-called "intrusion prevention" features that can protect computers from attacks such as buffer overflows, which are often used by viruses, worms and malicious hackers to compromise vulnerable Microsoft Corp. Windows machines.
Tackling climate change will cost far less than the pessimists suggest, a British scientist says.
PARIS, Nov 16 (AFP) - Peace must be quot;imposed quot; on Ivory Coast if the warring sides there refuse to abide by a ceasefire, French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier said Tuesday, hailing sanctions voted by the UN Security Council against the west African state.
Amazon.com says it has reached an agreement to buy Joyo.com, the largest Internet retailer of books, music and videos in China, in a deal worth $75 million. The rapid growth of broadband access in the region makes Asia a particularly ...
Islamabad, Nov 14 (UNI) A day after External Affairs Minister K Natwar Singh expressed India #39;s readiness to look at President Pervez Musharraf #39;s radical formula for resolving the Kashmir issue if mooted formally, Pakistan Foreign Minister Khurshid Mehmood
DAVIE, Fla. (Sports Network) - Dave Wannstedt resigned Tuesday as head coach of the Miami Dolphins after the team sunk to an NFL-worst 1-8 record. Defensive coordinator Jim Bates will take over as interim coach for the remainder of the season.
In an attempt to increase its share of the business market, the mobile phone maker Nokia on Tuesday announced a sleeker version of its Communicator smart phone and expanded the number of mobile phones equipped with the BlackBerry e-mail application, a
NEW YORK - If there #39;s one thing that makes Sony #39;s Network Walkman seem superior to Apple Computer #39;s iPod, at least at first glance, it #39;s the issue of size versus storage capacity.
Reuters - A key Iranian nuclear facility which the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog has urged Tehran to shut down is nearing completion, a senior Iranian nuclear official said on Sunday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks surged on Tuesday, as battered insurers rose on confidence a probe of the industry would end quickly, helping blue chips snap a 5-day streak of losses.
Adolph Coors Co. and Montreal-based brewer Molson Inc. said Friday that they will pay a special dividend to Molson shareholders in connection with the companies #39; merger.
General Motors aims to restructure its loss-making European operations without resorting to involuntary redundancies or shuttering any
There is a 35 percent rise in the number of people killed in road accidents three days after a terror attack, compared to an average day.
The 7100t has a mobile phone, e-mail, instant messaging, Web browsing and functions as an organiser. The device looks like a mobile phone and has the features of the other BlackBerry models, with a large screen
AFP - From the remote jungles of Papua to the sky-scrapers of Jakarta, Indonesia is staging landmark elections which will see the vast Southeast Asian archipelago choose its president for the first time.
KENT, Wash. -- Investigators are trying to identify the source of chunks of ice that smashed through the roof of a house in this Seattle suburb last week, landing on the bed of a 7-year-old girl.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Michael Finley had 26 points and Dirk Nowitzki added 22 points and 14 rebounds as the Dallas Mavericks crushed their state rivals, the Houston Rockets, 102-78 in National Basketball Association play Saturday.
The European Union says it will contribute $100 million to an African force in Sudan #39;s troubled Darfur region. EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said during a visit to Ethiopia Saturday the
Reuters - Blockbuster Inc. on Wednesday posted a #36;1.42 billion quarterly loss due to a charge, while profit from its operations slid due to higher marketing costs, falling rental demand and escalating competition.
The International Football Federation has announced new dates for Kenya #39;s three qualifying matches for the 2006 World Cup tournament in Germany.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Illinois residents will soon be able to buy lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, sidestepping U.S. regulators' objections to imported drugs, Gov. Rod Blagojevich said on Tuesday.
After years of preparation and US $325 million of investment, Shanghai is ready to host the Formula One Grand Prix for the first time this weekend, on September 26.
AP - Mike Mularkey is shrugging off St. Louis coach Mike Martz's accusations that Buffalo players took cheap shots during their win over the Rams.
SPACE.com - quot;My heart stopped here on the ground. quot; -- Erik Lindbergh
The Mets made the expected changes to Art Howe #39;s former staff in announcing yesterday that only pitching coach Rick Peterson would be retained.
AP - This November, Eileen Rivera Ley, 41, will vote by herself for the first time. Blind voters in Maryland and several other states will use electronic voting machines equipped with technology that allows the disabled to vote independently.
Beleaguered Russian oil company Yukos said yesterday that it had reduced its crude output forecast for the year as bailiffs continued to collect cash against
Reuters - Software giant Microsoft is casting its sights on the digital media marketplace by positioning itself as pro-consumer-choice.
Irving, TX (Sports Network) - Tiki Barber ran for 122 yards and a touchdown and the New York Giants scored 20 unanswered points in the second half to post a 26-10 victory over Dallas in a showdown between NFC East rivals at Texas Stadium.
The Yankees had a chance to throw a party in their own home Thursday night, the kind where the champagne flows into everything but a glass.
Google Inc.'s initial public offering took a major step forward as the company notified investors that Tuesday may be their last chance to submit, withdraw or change bids in the unusual $3 billion electronic auction for stock in the Internet giant. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-The Washington Post&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
(Associated Press) The Securities and Exchange Commission will propose soon a plan to tighten governance at the nation #39;s stock exchanges to ensure they are serving the public interest, SEC Chairman William Donaldson said Friday.
NIGERIAN workers would disrupt their country #39;s key oil exports of 2.5 million barrels per day with an indefinite general strike from November 16, the country #39;s top labour leader warned today.
EUROPEAN FOOTBALL: Newcastle climbed just one place to eighth instead of five spots to fourth because of a 1-1 tie with Charlton. Rangers beat Motherwell 2-0.
A smart investor pays $1.25 billion for Orbitz. So what's Travelzoo worth?
FOXBOROUGH -- If you listened to Patriots coach Bill Belichick and others speaking about the Bills last week, Drew Bledsoe was playing like the second coming of Johnny Unitas and Willis McGahee was running like Walter Payton.
WASHINGTON -- Pakistan's military has been so effective in pressuring Al Qaeda leaders hiding in the tribal region of western Pakistan that Osama bin Laden and his top deputies no longer are able to direct terrorist operations, a senior American commander said yesterday.
Butch Davis resigned as coach of the Cleveland Browns after a five-game losing streak dropped the team into last place. Davis, 53, compiled a 24-36 record in almost four seasons with the Browns.
Bank customers may soon be able to check their balances on mobile phone screens in an initiative from the Link cash machine network and Morse.
AP - A Swedish geologist has found what appears to be the oldest known fossil from a mammal ever found in Scandinavia #151; a 145-million-year-old tooth from a prehistoric rodent, a Swedish university said Thursday.
ST. LOUIS - Utility holding company Ameren Corp. announced plans Wednesday to reduce its payroll by offering 950 union and management employees financial incentives to leave.
STAT LINE: Shaquille O #39;Neal had 24 points, 17 rebounds and four blocked shots in 38 minutes Friday against the Pistons. POWER PLAY: The crowd buzzed with anticipation when fan favorite Darko Milicic caught the ball on the block with O #39;Neal on his back.
Sun Microsystems and Microsoft next month plan to reveal the work they have been doing to make their products interoperable, a Sun executive said yesterday.
AP - In the latest change to its product lineup, Intel Corp. canceled plans Thursday to release a 4-gigahertz computer microprocessor, saying it would rely approaches besides faster clock speed to improve the performance of chips.
AFP - Cambodia's new monarch King Norodom Sihamoni received blessings from top Buddhist monks and his parents ahead of his formal coronation ceremony, as Phnom Penh slipped into celebratory mode.
AP - Taliban-linked militants holding three U.N. hostages claimed Wednesday the Afghan government has agreed to free some of their jailed comrades to prevent the killing of the foreign captives.
It was overcast and chilly at the Westside Tennis Club here yesterday morning when Tim Henman went out to practice for the Masters Cup.
Hong Kong's pro-democracy parties are on course to net fewer seats than expected in legislative elections.
Former Computer Associates International Inc. Chief Executive Sanjay Kumar was charged with directing a $2.2 billion accounting fraud, and the company agreed to pay $225 million to avoid prosecution and settle a regulatory suit.
Apple Computer is the undisputed champion of the hard-drive music market, but competitors are gearing up for a shot at the title. The various versions of the iPod account for 92.
The US-European spacecraft Cassini has begun beaming close-up images of Saturn #39;s giant moon Titan to Earth. Cassini reached the point of closest approach, 1,198 km, at 10.
Recruiters working for U.S. contractors are hiring former Colombian soldiers - and even luring some active-duty ones - for security jobs in Iraq, says a former army officer who met with the recruiters.
BEFORE ARRIVING in London this morning for his state visit, President Chirac took pains to ridicule Tony Blairs vision of building a bridge between Europe and America.
David Beckham could be sidelined up to six weeks after cracking a rib during England's 2-0 World Cup qualifying victory over Wales in which he scored a goal and drew a suspension for the next game.
Jalen Rose scored 24 points, including the decisive free throws with 15.6 seconds left, to help the Toronto Raptors snap a six-game road losing streak with a 94-92 victory over the Miami Heat on Tuesday night.
Windows XP Service Pack 2 gets a 'hotfix' for VPNs, part the never-ending process of software development.
AP - NASA's spaceflight leadership council decided Friday to delay the spring 2005 launch date for the first shuttle scheduled to return to space since last year's Columbia tragedy, citing hurricane damage and more work needed to meet a panel's recommendations.
Hundreds of mourners marched in a funeral procession Wednesday for two teenage victims of Argentina #39;s worst school shooting on record, a day after a fellow student #39;s classroom rampage.
IBM Corp. next week will begin shipping the second generation of its rack-mounted dual processor servers based on Advanced Micro Devices Inc.'s (AMD) Opteron microprocessor. The new server, called the eServer 326, will be IBM's first product specifically designed to support the upcoming dual-core Opteron processors that AMD is expected to ship next year.
AP - Sixth-seeded Gisela Dulko of Argentina beat Aniko Kapros of Hungary 6-4, 6-1 Monday in the first round of the China Open.
The European Commission is expected today to approve US-based enterprise software firm Oracle #39;s hostile take-over of rival PeopleSoft.
The Houston Astros capped a remarkable late-season turnaround by capturing the National League wild card playoff berth on Sunday with a 5-3 win over the Colorado Rockies.
By Amanda Gardner, HealthDay Reporter HealthDayNews -- Contrary to popular belief, not all kids who are allergic to insect stings outgrow their sensitivity. Some people whose allergies left them in fear of bees, wasps, and the like as children still react to their stings as adults, but a new study offers relief: Allergy shots given in childhood can protect them for up to 20 years...
Good growth plus an unappreciative investing public finally make Red Hat's stock look cheap.
Software company Adobe issued a updated version of Acrobat for the Windows and the Macintosh OS X platforms this week, fixing three security holes that could be used to compromise a user #39;s system.
Area companies may not have the budget to buy premium sports tickets or lease luxury suites to Washington's new baseball team.
While creative, Blockbuster's latest policy change will have little impact on Netflix.
&lt;strong&gt;Analysis&lt;/strong&gt; Redefining voluntary again...
Nashville, TN (Sports Network) - Chris Brown rushed for 98 yards on eight carries, leading the Tennessee Titans to a 27-7 romp over the Green Bay Packers in the preseason finale for both teams at the Coliseum.
NEW YORK - Eddie Adams, a photojournalist whose half-century of arresting work was defined by a single frame - a Pulitzer Prize-winning Associated Press photo of a communist guerrilla being executed in a Saigon street during the Vietnam War - died Sunday. He was 71...
BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 15 - Iraq #39;s election campaign season opened on a violent note when a bomb exploded Wednesday near the gate of one of Iraq #39;s holiest Shiite shrines in the pilgrim city of Karbala, killing
Cassini-Huygens, a joint US-European mission to Saturn, has had its closest encounter yet with Titan, one of Saturn #39;s moons. It flew to within 745 miles and beamed back the first images of the only moon in the solar system with an atmosphere.
Top-seeded Roger Federer overcame a second-set lapse and remained unbeaten in the ATP Masters Cup Championships with a victory Thursday night over Carlos Moya.
HAVANA -- Cuba on Monday signed contracts to buy $10 million of US wheat and meat products, and $300,000 of American dairy cattle, launching a new round of deals for US farm products projected to reach $150 million.
Open-source software advocates got a potential boost from a report by the U.K.'s Office of Government Commerce, which cited advantages on the server side and a growing maturity on the desktop front.
A new service will measure radio audiences in cars, combining global positioning technology and tracking of the radio dial to challenge Arbitron, the dominant radio ratings provider.
NHL veterans Chris Pronger and Jim McKenzie think this lockout is far worse than the one that wiped out half a season 10 years ago.
Verizon Wireless lets you choose "ringback tones" from a catalog of more than 2,200 songs in 13 different music genres.
AP - House-Senate bargainers neared agreement Friday on an election-season #36;14.7 billion package of aid for East Coast hurricane victims and drought-stricken farmers, participants said.
Fallujah is not the only flashpoint. Violence continues to sweep the rest of Iraq. A car bomb exploded near a police checkpoint in Eastern Baghdad, killing at least seven people.
Birdstone won the Travers Stakes on Saturday and solidified his credentials as the top 3-year-old in training.
IBM Global Services has agreed to sell its Electronic Data Interchange and Business Exchange Services businesses to Francisco Partners, the majority owner of electronic data transmission vendor Global eXchange Services Inc.
AFP - Supporters of fox hunting stormed Britain's parliament and scuffled with police at a mass rally, but failed to prevent lawmakers from moving closer to a ban of the blood sport.
Cambodia races to pass laws to decide the sucession after King Sihanouk's abdication announcement.
AFP - An Australian mechanic will stand trial next April over the outback murder three years ago of British tourist Peter Falconio, court officials said.
Three major recording companies have agreed to make their music available to be shared and sold over a new online file-swapping service that aims to lure music fans away from rival
Apple #39;s announcement last week of the iTunes Affiliate Program, iTunes on Campus, and the iTunes Volume Discount program represents the next escalation in what is turning into a heated battle for control of the Internet music services (which is somewhat
Despite rapid growth in recent years, China #39;s leather industry still needs to improve the competitiveness to better weather possible impacts from growing international trade barriers, senior industry officials said.
Updated NASCAR team reports as the Nextel Cup #39;s championship chase turns to Dover (Del.) International Speedway, site of the second race in the 10-race shootout series.
Reuters - Hundreds of thousands of poisonous baby cane toads invaded an Australian national park on Friday, hopping around in such numbers that the ground seemed to move, an ecologist said.
European aerospace giant EADS more than doubled its profit in the first nine months of the year, topping market expectations as a rebound in civil
MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Computershare Ltd., the world's largest share registry, said on Thursday a New York division subpoenaed by U.S. market regulators investigating stock surveillance firms had not broken any laws.
BANGKOK, Thailand Sept. 28, 2004 - A woman who died earlier this month of bird flu probably got the disease from her daughter, a Thai official said Tuesday, increasing concern the case is the first known human-to-human transmission of the disease.
A US economic barometer weakened for the fourth straight month in September as oil prices surged, showing a loss of momentum heading to 2005, the Conference Board said today.
AP - At least three of the original 75 dissidents arrested in a broad crackdown last year were released for health reasons Monday, according to friends, relatives and local rights activists. The surprise move raised hopes for additional releases in the coming days.
US OPEN fifth seed Tim Henman hopes to put a back problem behind him as he looks to progress in the final grand slam event of the year, the US Open at Flushing Meadow in New York.
A series of bombs targeting US forces were detonated in a western Baghdad neighbourhood, leaving scores of dead and wounded. Interior Ministry spokesman Colonel Adnan Abd al-Rahman said two car bombs and a
Peru's President Toledo faces a backlash after TV audiences hear him harangue and insult a presenter by telephone.
When my 17-year-old son said he might want to apply to colleges on the West Coast, my wife had a flashback. When she was thinking about schools in the fall of 1970, she considered Stanford. Her father told her to forget it. His rationale: the cost of flying coast-to-coast, on top of tuition costs, would have made Stanford prohibitively expensive.
Adelaide - New Zealand lost both their opening batsmen in the final session as Australia, led by Justin Langer #39;s third career double century, held a 519-run lead after the second day of the second cricket Test on Saturday.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The head of UAL Corp.'s United Airlines said on Thursday the airline's restructuring plan would lead to a significant number of job losses, but it was not clear how many.
Japan #39;s littlest princess turned three on Wednesday as authorities grappled with the issue of whether to make legal changes that would one day allow her ascend the Chrysanthemum Throne.
AFP - An Indian tree with poisonous fruit is used by more people to commit suicide than any other plant in the world and has a barely-investigated role in murder, French and Indian scientists say.
Sonic's latest version of its DVD burning software improves on its predecessor but still trails the latest offerings from Ahead Software and Roxio.
LAKE LOUISE, Alta. (CP) - The Austrian women claimed their first victory of the season, finishing one-two in the year #39;s opening World Cup super-giant slalom race Sunday, while three Canadians finished in the top 20.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Dow Jones industrial average fell to an intraday low for the year on Friday as oil prices surged to another record and Microsoft Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MSFT.O&lt;/A&gt; dragged on stocks after the software maker's revenue forecast lagged analysts' expectations.
On a gloriously sunny San Francisco day last April, a friend and I paid $150 for tickets worth less than $80 to see the San Francisco Giants play the Milwaukee Brewers at SBC Park. Of course, like thousands of others on that chilly Monday afternoon, we weren't there so much to see the game as to get a chance to ...
Credit investors found it difficult to muster much joy over Kmart Holding Corp. #39;s (KMRT.O: Quote, Profile, Research) plan to buy Sears, Roebuck amp; Co.
Reuters - Microsoft Corp. and cable television provider Comcast Corp. said on Monday they would begin deploying set-top boxes powered by Microsoft software starting next week.
Upon hearing the news that Steve Spurrier turned down the chance to return to the University of Florida, Southwest Florida Gator Club president-elect Corbyn Hightower exchanged a few calls and e-mails with fellow Gators.
MacCentral - After Apple unveiled the iMac G5 in Paris this week, Vice President of Hardware Product Marketing Greg Joswiak gave Macworld editors a guided tour of the desktop's new design. Among the topics of conversation: the iMac's cooling system, why pre-installed Bluetooth functionality and FireWire 800 were left out, and how this new model fits in with Apple's objectives.
Verizon Communications Inc. #39;s third-quarter profit held steady at about $1.80 billion as declining revenues from traditional phone services at the nation #39;s biggest telephone company were offset by another blockbuster quarter for Verizon Wireless, which
LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury prices were higher on Friday, cementing gains made the previous day, in the face of growing speculation that the pace of U.S. interest rate hikes could slow.
Overriding the defendant #39;s objections, the UN war crimes tribunal appointed two lawyers to represent Slobodan Milosevic yesterday, hoping
NASA will test its latest jet-powered aircraft for the final time next week, aiming to set a world record by flying at 10 times the speed of sound.
After months on the Wall Street diet, Vivendi shows off its slimmer self.
Veteran offensive lineman Mike Compton and rookie defensive tackle Anthony Maddox were among the 12 players cut by the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sunday.
The talk in the computer world seems to be whether or not to get Microsoft #39;s Windows XP Service Pack 2. Both sides of the argument offer pros and cons as to whether or not computer users should proceed with this upgrade.
Serginho, a 30-year-old defender with So Caetano, collapsed and died of what appeared to be a heart attack during a Brazilian league match on Wednesday night.
New federal rules governing overtime pay went into effect Monday. USA TODAY workplace reporter Stephanie Armour explains how the rules will affect some workers.
BRISBANE: Brendon McCullum and Scott Styris were last night forgiven for expressing pent-up frustration at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Wednesday night and cleared to play the Chappell-Hadlee
Ziff Davis - Enterprise application vendors should be lauded for offering evaluation versions.
Diplomats from several countries have expressed support for the United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, after a call for his resignation over the UN role in the Iraq Oil-for-Food programme.
VIENNA, Austria - A U.S. official expressed alarm Thursday about a possible nuclear-weapons related test site in Iran and accused the U.N...
The launch of a Soyuz spacecraft with new astronauts for the international space station could face a delay of several days so experts can examine a potential docking system problem, the Russian Federal Space Agency said Wednesday.
In a regular-season finale that resembled an exhibition game and was about as meaningful, Jason Schmidt pitched six dominant innings, Ray Durham and Pedro Feliz hit first-inning homers and the San Francisco Giants beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 10-0 on
MANCHESTER City boss Kevin Keegan has hailed Premiership record-breakers Arsenal as the best-ever English club side. Keegan was part of the legendary Liverpool side that was just an FA Cup final defeat by
A third of people trying to lose weight find they actually end up piling on the pounds, a survey finds.
WASHINGTON -- On a sun-drenched morning in Sadr City, an Army officer and his patrol may first have to size up an Iraqi civilian bearing an automatic rifle: Is he friend or foe? A few hours later, the same patrol leader might shift his focus from the dangers of stealth enemies to the status of the town's new sewage project. ...
Forbes magazine, which once adapted the old Marxist taunt quot;capitalist tool quot; as a slogan, has compiled a list of the 400 richest Americans that, in a curious way, is an encouragement to the rest of us.
NASA scientists are poring over the latest pictures unveiling Saturn #39;s mysterious moon Titan. The images show distinct dark and bright surface areas.
The Transportation Security Administration yesterday said it would resume plans to seek bids for a large technology maintenance contract, ending consideration of a proposal to give the work to an Alaska Native Corporation without competition.
Frank Gore - the Miami Hurricanes junior running back who has had two college seasons torn apart by tearing apart two knees -ent rambling 18 yards into an Orange Bowl end zone sometime near midnight Friday to complete a 16-10 overtime win against
AP - Google, the Internet search engine, has done something that law enforcement officials and their computer tools could not: Identify a man who died in an apparent hit-and-run accident 11 years ago in this small town outside Yakima.
AFP - The captors of two French journalists allegedly put forward new demands for their release, but French officials cast doubt on the authenticity of the demands and remained cautiously optimistic about securing their release.
Worries about job prospects sent consumer confidence in the United States to a seven-month low in October, its third consecutive monthly decline.
The United States, the European Union and Russia urged Iran Monday to comply with the UN nuclear watchdog #39;s demand that it halt all activities linked to uranium enrichment, after Tehran rejected the call.
Ecuador's opposition parties fail in efforts to begin impeachment proceedings against President Lucio Gutierrez.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece was plunged in national self-satisfaction on Tuesday after its synchronized divers won the host nation's first gold medal of the Athens Olympics.
VIENNA (Reuters) - Iran said Monday it was losing patience with U.N. inspections of its nuclear program and announced that its agreement with the Europeans to halt uranium enrichment would soon come to an end.
TRENTON, N.J. - Flesh-eating bacteria cases, fatal pneumonia and life-threatening heart infections suddenly are popping up around the country, striking healthy people and stunning their doctors...
Prime Minister Tony Blair is due to hold talks with Iraqi Prime Minister Iyad Allawi at Downing Street. Their meeting comes after Mr Blair played down claims that he had been warned a year before the war to
The US has closed its embassy in Damascus on Thursday for security reasons, the mission said in a website statement. The embassy will be closed to the public on Thursday, November 4, 2004 to enable it to reassess its security posture, it said.
quot;There will be a South African Grand Prix hosted by Cape Town within five years, quot; Ecclestone told South African newspaper Die Burger.
Royal Dutch/Shell, one of the world #39;s largest oil companies, agreed yesterday to pay $120 million in penalties to settle charges of corporate fraud with the Securities and Exchange Commission for overstating its oil reserves.
Since President Bush signed No Child Left Behind, the law has imposed undeniable changes on public education, but it has also faced a backlash.
WOLVERHAMPTON, Dec 7 (SW) - Former Tottenham Hotspur boss Glenn Hoddle has been named the new manager of Wolverhampton Wanderers, succeeding Dave Jones, who was sacked in November.
Lauren Jackson returns from a three-game absence to score 15 points, helping Seattle get an 86-67 victory over the Shock.
BAGHDAD Three powerful car bombs exploded in Baghdad and northern Iraq on Monday morning, killing at least 26 people and wounding more than 100 in a day of carnage that demonstrated the relative ease with which insurgents are striking in the hearts of
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The first U.S. passenger flight to Vietnam since 1975 shows bilateral ties are "right on track" between old battlefield foes who still spar over human rights and trade, a Vietnamese spokeswoman said on Thursday.
AP - Yasser Arafat's wife accused his top lieutenants of seeking to grab power from her ailing husband, prompting three top Palestinian officials to abruptly cancel a visit to Paris #151; at least for a day #151; the first sign of an open power struggle while Arafat clings to life.
Tuesday, in the computing community, is now known as patch Tuesday. That #39;s because Microsoft has taken to releasing operating system and browser fixes on Tuesdays.
Millions of Muslims across the world begin observing the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
AFP - The brother of a British engineer held hostage in Iraq said there was a quot;glimmer of hope quot; after the Iraqi justice ministry pledged to release a female Iraqi scientist, one of two women whose freedom had been demanded by the kidnappers.
San Diego, CA (Sports Network) - The San Diego Padres requested unconditional release waivers for righthanded reliever Rod Beck on Tuesday, ending the 36- year-old #39;s run in Southern California.
Consumer confidence fell sharply in both Massachusetts and the nation in October, weighed down by concerns about jobs, rising energy costs, and the strength of the economic recovery.
Major League Baseball's Washington, D.C. franchise finally got a name Monday, nearly two months after the team relocated from Montreal. Team officials, including president Tony Tavares, also unveiled a color scheme for the team, which is red, white and blue.
Shares in the Russian oil giant Yukos lose more than a fifth of their value, as the company faces a tax fine of $2.5bn.
It adds CRM functionality but faces competition from hosted services.
MANILA, Philippines -- As the confirmed death toll from devastating storms in the Philippines rises to more than 840, rescuers have pulled at least four survivors from a building that collapsed in mudslides 10 days ago.
Nokia (NYSE: NOK) announced that it has shipped its one millionth game deck globally since the sales of the N-Gage platform started eleven months ago.
AP - Chased out of Florida by Hurricane Ivan, the Marlins were forced to play a home game on the road and still cut their gap in the NL wild-card race. Florida rallied with six runs in the bottom of the eighth inning, taking advantage of four Montreal errors to beat the Expos 6-3 Monday at U.S. Cellular Field.
WASHINGTON (Sports Network) - Roger Powell Jr. netted 19 points on 8-of-11 shooting to lead top-ranked Illinois to a 74-59 victory over Georgetown at the MCI Center.
FALLUJA, Iraq (Reuters) - U.S. troops fought to crush resistance in the Iraqi city of Falluja on Thursday, but rebels hit back with an armed rampage in Mosul and a car bomb that killed 17 people in a crowded Baghdad street.
Thermal printer produces great-looking snapshots, but they don't come cheap.
A criminal probe of Boeing Co. #39;s dealings with the US Air Force is widening to include a $100 billion Army program it oversees, the Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.
In a move that was anticipated for several days, Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chief executive and chairman and Marsh amp; McLennan (MMC ), resigned on Oct. 25.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Revenues in key sectors of the U.S. services industry grew in the second quarter, the government said on Monday in a new survey aimed at measuring growth in the giant tranche of the economy.
The London Stock Exchange plans to set up an Asia headquarters in Hong Kong to tap the growing number of mainland corporates eyeing listings abroad, a local newspaper reports.
AFP - Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf travels to the Brazilian capital for talks with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva as he seeks to strengthen his country's international ties and open new commercial markets.
Celtic manager Martin O #39;Neill lost no time in re-igniting the flames of an explosive Old Firm derby by condemning the actions of Rangers striker Nacho Novo during his side #39;s 2-0 defeat.
Sun Microsystems will create an open-source project around its Solaris 10 operating system by the end of the year, company executives said Monday.
Top-ranked shock jock Howard Stern says he is leaving Infinity Broadcasting Corp. to join Sirius satellite radio, beginning in January 2006, where he'll get the national audience he has coveted.
NEWARK, NJ - Two-time All Big East senior guard Cappie Pondexter is going to miss the first half of Rutgers women #39;s basketball season.
Iraq #39;s stagnant economy and lack of employment opportunities are feeding instability in the violence-torn country, hindering prospects for prosperity, Prime Minister Iyad Allawi said on Monday.
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Rodriguez Zapatero on Monday thanked the French government for the recent capture in the country of a top leader of the separatist organization Basque Homeland and Freedom (ETA).
A powerful explosion rocked the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, Pakistan, Thursday, the BBC reported. The number of casualties was not yet known, but a BBC correspondent
Chauncey Billups tied his season high with 24 points and Richard Hamilton scored 13 of his 19 in the third quarter, helping the Detroit Pistons pull away from the Mavericks and post a 101-85 victory last night in Dallas.
BEIJING (Reuters) - A group of foreign diplomats left Pyongyang on Thursday to visit the scene of a mysterious explosion in North Korea, an embassy official said.
Internet consultant Mary Hodder spends most of her life online. She has gone almost entirely digital. It may not be long before you do, too. Commentary by Adam L. Penenberg.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. House of Representatives will vote as soon as next week on a measure to crack down on deceptive "spyware" that hides in users' computers and secretly monitors their activities, key lawmakers said on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON Sept. 16, 2004 - Consumer prices rose just 0.1 percent in August, a sign that inflation poses no immediate risk to the economy.
com September 15, 2004, 9:01 PM PT. Most IT Managers won #39;t question the importance of security, but this priority has been sliding between the third and fourth most important focus for companies.
Typhoon Meari, the eighth tropical cyclone to reach Japan this year, is moving over the southwestern main island of Kyushu, disrupting flights and cutting power.
AP - In setting limits on chemicals in food and water, the Environmental Protection Agency may rely on industry tests that expose people to poisons and raise ethical questions.
IBM is trying to use SCO as a punching bag this week as Big Blue fires off another motion for partial summary judgment in its legal slugfest over Linux and Unix copyright issues.
The tools are aimed at giving developers succinct representations of various Web applications, using detailed graphics that represent software components and helping developers to build better
Somebody named Larry Donald slapped Evander Holyfield silly Saturday night, making us all wonder why the former champ still has a boxing license.
The U.S. military presence in Iraq will grow to 150,000 troops by next month, the highest level since the invasion last year.
AP - Jose Lima pitched into the seventh inning, Jayson Werth homered for the third game in a row and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the San Diego Padres 6-3 Tuesday night.
England reach the Champions Trophy semi-finals as Andrew Flintoff's 104 earns victory over Sri Lanka.
The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in the summer as a big rebound in auto sales offset weakness from an exploding trade deficit, soaring oil prices and the Florida hurricanes, the government reported Friday.
Martha Stewart has had some good news just before she heads off to jail - a new contract from her company worth more than $2ma year.
Rockets struck a Baghdad hotel housing foreign contractors and journalists late Thursday, drawing return fire and underscoring the insecurity even in the heart of the capital.
New York Giants Coach Tom Coughlin Sunday named Kurt Warner the team #39;s starting quarterback for the season opener at Philadelphia Sept.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks to watch on Monday include Family Dollar Stores Inc., Staples Inc., Microsoft Corp., and General Electric Co.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Torii Hunter and Corey Koskie belted two-run homers in the first inning to help the Minnesota Twins clinch their third straight American League Central Division title with an 8-2 victory over the Chicago White Sox Monday.
The Justice Department is being asked to investigate new Northwest Airlines fees that added $7.50 to the cost of a round-trip ticket purchased through systems used by travel agents.
Spains midweek international friendly victory over England was marred by some disgraceful scenes of racism directed at Englands black players, but further sad events which have been so far largely unreported occurred in Madrid on Wednesday evening.
On Monday, billionaire Kirk Kerkorian sold Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. for the third time. As a Hollywood reconciliation story, that means Kerkorian has bought and sold the venerable movie studio more times than Elizabeth Taylor married Richard Burton.
By abc12, Associated Press. Brett Favre threw two touchdown passes and led the Packers to a 38-10 win over the Detroit Lions. Green Bay is2-4 and lost four straight before today.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Freddie Mac &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FRE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;FRE.N&lt;/A&gt;, the second-largest U.S. home financing company, on Friday revised its 2003 net income downward by $75 million to provide for a reserve for legal expenses, according to its annual report.
NEW YORK - Now that digital music players have evolved beyond the ability to store 20 gigabytes worth of music, storage capacity memory is no longer the only factor to consider before buying.
After losing 14 straight in Miami, the Phils, led by Cory Lidle #39;s stellar pitching, triumphed over the Marlins. By Todd Zolecki.
CLEVELAND -- Rookie quarterback Ben Roethlisberger could face some tough pressure when the Steelers visit the Cleveland Browns Sunday.
nited Airlines said today that it was likely to terminate and replace its four employee pension plans with less-generous benefits, a drastic move that the airline said was necessary to attract the financing that would allow it to ...
Babies older than 3 months who cry uncontrollably without reason are at greater risk of suffering from lower IQ, hyperactivity and discipline problems in childhood, new research has found.
Description: This week, the search engine Google announced plans to digitize millions of library books and make them searchable online.
Here is the list of longest suspensions in NBA history for on-court incidents. Note: does not include the immediate suspension (one game) handed down today: 72 games-x - Ron Artest, Indiana Pacers, (for the
India #39;s most wanted fugitive, accused of more than 100 murders and on the run for decades, has been shot dead after driving into an elaborate police trap.
It #39;s about time that someone addressed the inherent lack of integrity in the failure of the University of Alabama to play UAB in football.
Baghdad, Oct. 24 (NNN): Barely hours after two suicide car bombings near Ramadi and Samarra killed at least 22 Iraqi security officers, the bodies of 49 Iraqi army recruits were found near the town of Baquba
Reuters - Voters in Ghana queued on Tuesday to choose a new leader for their West African country in what was expected to be a race between incumbent John Kufuor and long-standing rival John Atta Mills.
LEESBURG, Va. A North Carolina man convicted of illegally sending (m) millions of pieces of junk e-mail to America Online subscribers was granted bond today while he awaits sentencing.
One of the largest financial institutions in Texas has drawn the attention of a New York banking giant. Bryan-based First American Bank SSB will be acquired by New York-based Citigroup Inc.
Google has won a trade mark dispute, with a District Court judge finding that the search engines sale of sponsored search terms Geico and Geico Direct did not breach car insurance firm GEICOs rights in the trade marked terms.
The consumer electronics giant is finally ready to build MP3 players that play MP3s. What does that mean to the industry?
The United States on Monday lodged a formal appeal against a ruling that ordered it to withdraw some of its subsidies for producers of cotton and other commodities, trade officials said.
Barcelona, Spain (Sports Network) - A late strike from Brazilian superstar Ronaldinho propelled Barcelona to a 2-1 Champions League win over AC Milan Tuesday at Camp Nou.
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Retailers expected Apple Computer Inc. #39;s iPod music player to be a hot item this holiday season but are still struggling to keep up with demand.
Anaheim, CA (Sports Network) - The Seattle Mariners have reportedly found their slugging first baseman for the 2005 season and beyond by coming to terms with free agent Richie Sexson.
Many around the NFL say they are surprised by the team's poor performance and question whether the problem lies with the Redskins' system, players or Joe Gibbs.
Reuters - Separatist rebels ambushed an army patrol in Indian Kashmir on Tuesday, killing three soldiers and wounding another two, police said.
Research: Businesses are going open source, but OS may still be too technical for most users. The open-source operating system Linux may be gaining a lot of ground in the enterprise space, but Windows will
Mozilla Foundation releases new versions of two browsers and an e-mail reader, addressing vulnerabilities that could allow attackers to run malicious code on a user's PC.
HARTFORD, Conn. -- Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal is expanding his investigation into allegations that insurance bids were rigged by examining whether unlawful practices have affected municipalities in the state.
RALEIGH - Its about to strike midnight on North Carolina States football team unless it can deliver tonight. The Wolfpack is one loss away from elimination from bowl consideration when it plays its home finale against No.
Oil prices have surged past a record $55 per a barrel in Asian trade, amid concerns over winter fuel supplies. The price of crude for November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange hit $55.
AFP - India's opposition leader and Hindu hardliner Lal Krishna Advani vowed his defeated BJP party would return and launched a blistering attack on the new government.
Cleveland Browns quarterback Jeff Garcia said Wednesday that he does not consider Terrell Owens an quot;enemy of mine quot; even though the Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver repeatedly has criticized his former teammate.
Wood paneling and chrome dominate one of two sample designs for a new style of Media Center PC, commissioned by Microsoft's eHome division from One Co.
India reach 48-1 at tea in reply to South Africa's 305 on day two of the second Test.
WASHINGTONCrude futures prices surged above $48 (US) per barrel yesterday as oil production and shipping disruptions caused by Hurricane Ivan prompted domestic supplies to shrink more than expected.
AP - The Israeli parliament gave a symbolic slap to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, voting against a statement defending his Gaza pullout plan, but he survived two no-confidence motions and pledged to bring the withdrawal itself to a vote in two weeks.
TOKYO (Reuters) - An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.6 shook northern Japan on Monday in the same area where the country's deadliest quake in nine years killed 23 people and injured more than 2,000 two days ago, media reported.
GENEVA : International air passenger traffic should record its strongest growth in 12 years in 2004, climbing by 11 percent for the year as a whole, the International Air Transport Association said Tuesday.
TOKYO (CBS.MW) - South Korea #39;s anti-monopoly watchdog said Monday it has expanded investigations into Microsoft Corp. after RealNetworks Inc.
Nearly 70 percent of Massachusetts hospitals have failed to install special computer systems for ordering drugs for patients, mostly because they carry big price tags. But a new report from the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative says the state's hospitals would end up saving money if they install these sophisticated systems to reduce medical errors.
Apple Store customers in San Francisco test the iPod Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2004. The iPod is one of the hot electronic items on the Christmas list of many a holiday shopper.
Apple, which opened the virtual doors on the Canadian store late on Wednesday, is selling songs for 99 Canadian cents, which translates to about 83 US cents, 16 per cent less than those in the United States pay for their iTunes.
SANTIAGO, 21 November 2004 - The US-led war on terror must include a resolution to the Palestinian question and involve a broader coalition, Washingtons Asia-Pacific partners warned yesterday as leaders of 21 Pacific Rim economies opened a two
American Express Co said it will cut 2,000 jobs, or 2.5 per cent of its work force, in a restructuring designed to save more than USD 75 million a year before taxes.
Mark Hughes farewell as Wales manager turned into a wake as their World Cup dreams were shattered by a remarkable Polish comeback.
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. - Former Olympic gold medalist Alvin Harrison accepted a four-year suspension from the US Anti-Doping Agency on Tuesday for drug violations uncovered in the BALCO case.
WILMINGTON (DELAWARE): An attorney for Oracle says the company will abandon its legal challenge to PeopleSoft #39;s anti-takeover protection if shareholders fail to tender a majority of their shares by November 19.
WASHINGTON -- The first inspections of the Big Four accounting firms by the board overseeing the industry turned up significant problems in their audits of companies' books and quality control, but the findings don't constitute a quot;broad negative assessment, quot; an official said yesterday. .
THESSALONIKI, GreeceSaying their quot;occupied quot; country should not be held up as a symbol of freedom, the coach and several players of Iraq #39;s celebrated soccer team are furious over a campaign commercial for US President George W. Bush.
Shopping around shopping guides shows a new level of sophistication to buying online, a report suggests.
Midway Games Inc. said Tuesday that it acquired Paradox Development, the studio now developing Midway #39;s upcoming Mortal Kombat:Shaolin Monks videogame, for 333,334 Midway common shares.
ATHENS, Greece -- American Michael Phelps won the gold medal Friday in the 100-meter butterfly with an Olympic-record time of 51.25 seconds.
Unemployment in Australia sinks to the lowest level since 1978, giving a further boost to the re-elected government of John Howard.
A spectacular second-innings collapse by Canada enabled Scotland to win the inaugural ICC Intercontinental Cup final at Sharjah by an innings and 84 runs with more than a day to spare.
Forrester Research analyst Jonathan Penn said that even if competing standards emerge, the rise of more advanced e-mail validation technology will likely be one of the most powerful tools against spam.
Top-ranked Roger Federer reached the second round of the Thailand Open on Tuesday in a bid for his 10th title this season, winning 6-4, 7-6 (4) against France #39;s Nicolas Thomann, who is ranked 507th.
PC World - MP3 Photo Jukebox features 1.6-inch color LCD and 4GB of storage.
NEW YORK, September 27 (newratings.com) - Mexican cement giant, Cemex SA (CX.NYS), has agreed to buy RMC Group Plc, a leading British ready-mix concrete company, in a deal valued at about $5.
Olympic swimming champion, Michael Phelps, withdrew from the quot; World Short Course Championships quot; in Indianapolis last night because of tightness in his back.
DENVER (Reuters) - Attorneys for the Colorado woman who accused Kobe Bryant of rape are considering suing the basketball star in his home state of California because of a strict cap on damages in Colorado, they said on Wednesday.
WPP, one of the worlds biggest advertising agencies, today cast doubt on prospects for the industrys fortunes next year, saying the quot;jury remains out quot;.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - J.P. Morgan Chase Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JPM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JPM.N&lt;/A&gt; posted lower third-quarter earnings on Wednesday, missing analyst expectations, as costs from its July merger with Bank One Corp. and anemic fixed-income trading revenue hurt profits.
UNITED NATIONSThe United States will stick to its guns in Iraq, despite increasing violence, US President George W. Bush vowed yesterday.
Hotmail users will have to start paying in order to access their hotmail e-mail messages via the Outlook and Outlook Express desktop e-mail programmes.
NEW YORK - For most tennis players, having about the same number of clean winners as unforced errors translates into a pretty good performance. Roger Federer is not like most tennis players...
Yukos chief financial officer Bruce Mismore on Thursday testified that Russian authorities were threatening him with legal action and possible extradition
Amnesty calls on Indonesia's president-elect Yudhoyono to investigate human rights abuses in Aceh province.
US trade negotiators will deliver a firm message to their European counterparts this morning in Brussels, Belgium: The Bush administration wants to scrap a 12-year-old aerospace trade pact and craft a wholly new accord that bars government loans, two
MADRID (Reuters) - Spanish police on Wednesday arrested five suspected members of the Basque separatist ETA guerrilla group who appeared primed to stage attacks, Interior Minister Jose Antonio Alonso said.
AP - Two judges known for supporting same-sex unions were nominated Tuesday to fill vacancies on Canada's Supreme Court, and they will be assessed in the country's first-ever public screening of such appointments.
MALELANE, South Africa (Reuters) - A faultless 67 left South Africa's Ernie Els one shot off the pace after the first round of the Dunhill Championship at the Leopard Creek Country Club on Thursday.
Violence in Mosul is damaging efforts to hold elections in the city, the US commander in north Iraq tells the BBC.
JFK Reloaded, after all, is an online game that deals with the John F. Kennedy assassination and was made available yesterday -- the 41st anniversary of the president #39;s death.
UCLA is placed third in the Pac-10 preseason women #39;s basketball media poll; Quinn a preseason all-conference pick. By Janie McCauley.
THOMASTOWN, Ireland -- Ernie Els held off a strong challenge from playing partner Thomas Bjorn to win the American Express Championship by one shot Sunday.
WASHINGTON (CBS.MW) - A strong euro and a strong hurricane helped cut the US trade deficit by 3.7 percent to $51.6 billion in September.
washingtonpost.com - Internet photo sites are scrambling to exploit the digital camera boom with new products and -- in some cases -- lower prices.
Allawi #39;s office confirms that his cousin #39;s wife and his cousin #39;s pregnant daughter-in-law were released Sunday. There #39;s no word on the cousin, 75-year-old Ghazi Allawi.
TAIPEI, TAIWAN -- More than two years after completing its buyout of rival Compaq Computer Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. (HP) has not done enough to take full advantage of the acquisition, according to HP's chairman and chief executive officer (CEO).
XM Satellite Radio will carry major league baseball games under a $650 million, 11-year deal announced Wednesday, the latest move in a costly race with rival Sirius Satellite Radio to sign personalities and sports leagues as a way of winning customers. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-AP&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/font&gt;
Former crematory operator Ray Brent Marsh says he #39;s guilty of dumping hundreds of bodies he was supposed to cremate. Marsh stopped performing cremations not long after he took over the family business in 1997.
MILAN The Two Simonas, as they are called in the Italian press, thought their dedication to helping Iraqis overcome the effects of war and their opposition to the US occupation protected them from the lawlessness of Baghdad.
Libya moves ahead with plans to modernise its oil industry and invites representatives from global companies to Tripoli for talks.
Campbell Soup turns in a good quarter, but there are better alternatives.
Microsoft has reached legal settlements with two of its biggest adversaries in the software industry, Novell and the Computer and Communications Industry Association.
Scientists hope to build a giant pinhole camera in space to spot planets orbiting distant stars. The New Worlds Imager would be the size of a football field with a 30ft wide hole in the centre.
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) has teamed with Videsh Sanchar Nigam (VSNL), a leading Indian telecommunications and internet services company, to market its Personal Internet Communicator (PIC) to consumers in India.
During an IBM employee meeting here Wednesday, a worker got up and asked a question that perhaps only 10 years ago would have been unthinkable: If he wanted
AP - The planned sale of oil giant Yukos' main pumping unit to pay off the parent company's back taxes won't affect production, Russia's energy minister was quoted Tuesday in news reports.
AP - Serbia on Sunday held its first democratically organized local elections since Slobodan Milosevic's ouster in what was expected to be a close race between nationalists loyal to the former president and pro-Western reformists.
Reuters - U.S. Treasury debt slid for a second session on Tuesday as data showed the U.S. economy expanded at a slightly faster pace than first thought in the third quarter, though inflation remained subdued.
The FBI is trying to find whoever hacked into a computer at the University of California at Berkeley. The computer contained personal information -- including social security numbers -- of nearly 1.5 million
LOS ANGELES A private spaceship is to blast off for the second time in a week on Monday in the final stage of an attempt to win a $10 million prize.
Toshiba said on Monday that four major Hollywood studios had thrown their crucial weight behind High Definition DVD (HD-DVD), one of two disc formats contending to be the standard in next-generation DVDs.
By H. JOSEF HEBERT WASHINGTON (AP) -- For the first time, scientists have created a genetic map of a cow, providing researchers a new tool to reduce animal disease and improve the nutrition of beef and dairy products, the Agriculture Department announced Wednesday...
AP - Dollar General Corp. said Wednesday that its third-quarter profits dropped nearly 9 percent amid high gas prices and reduced spending by its core, low-income customers. The discount retailer also lowered its forecast for the rest of the year.
Formula One commercial rights holder Bernie Ecclestone has said that time has run out for the organisers of the British Grand Prix to save the race for the 2005 season.
Southwest Airlines emerged on Wednesday as the victor in the battle for the assets of ATA, the bankrupt low-cost carrier, beating a rival offer from AirTran and underscoring its
Description: NPR #39;s Robert Siegel talks with our regular sports commentator Stefan Fatsis of The Wall Street Journal about Major League baseball.
Internet downloads are nothing new when it comes to buying music and software online. So why does video game shopping still mostly involve either shlepping to a store or waiting for the delivery truck after you order online?
Citigroup Inc. (CN: Quote, Profile, Research) , the world #39;s largest financial services company, said it remains committed to asset management, rejecting a published report it might
LONDON SEPTEMBER 6: Oil prices eased on Monday as speculative funds continued to take profits but a tight global supply picture stopped the selling from gaining much momentum.
Reuters - Former Dolphins running back Ricky Williams was ordered by an arbitrator Friday to pay a huge sum of money to Miami, which filed a grievance against the star after he retired just prior to training camp this season.
Apple has launched the iTunes Music Store #39;s pan-Europe incarnation, as it promised to do last June when it opened UK, French and German online stores.
Nextaris pulls together all of the tools you need to find, save, and share information with others in a single online location.
Exhausted cyclist Sarah Ulmer is still on a high from taking gold at the Olympics in world record time. She is back at the Olympic village and still cannot believe the number of New Zealanders at the velodrome to cheer her on.
The UK website of Amazon.com is launching a DVD rental service, the online retailer #39;s first foray into a market pioneered by US- based Netflix.
AFP - Britain is "sleepwalking into a surveillance society" because of government plans to introduce ID cards and a population register, the nation's information watchdog was quoted as saying.
Lycos Europe Cans Anti-Spam Effort Lycos Europe attempted to get back at the leading spammers of the world through an initiative called MakeLoveNotSpam. The move was applauded by the ordinary user of the web considering more than a lakh users downloaded the screensaver from the official website. However, many ISPs and ...
Beleaguered Russian oil giant Yukos on Monday faces a court-imposed deadline to pay a multi-billion dollar tax bill. Yukos has been ordered to pay $3.
The global airline industry stands to incur losses of between USD $3 billion and USD $4 billion this year as surging oil prices wipe out any hope of profit created by rising passenger traffic, the International Air Transport Association said on Monday.
&lt;strong&gt;Analysis&lt;/strong&gt; Prospects bright in the Wi-Fi arena
Jeff Zimmerman's recent baseball biography reads like a broken record, or in a more modern idiom, "Groundhog Day."
The three most famous European authors of open-source software today issued an appeal against software patents in Europe. Linux author Linus Torvalds, MySQL author Michael Windenius and
The Supreme Court on Monday let stand a ruling that the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations violated federal antitrust law by barring their member banks from issuing credit and charge cards on the rival networks of
Chelsea have followed Tottenham in pouring cold water on rumours that England striker Jermain Defoe was set for a switch across London.
A judge rules that three UK bankers can be extradited to the US to face fraud charges related to a deal with Enron.
All of the human embryonic stem cells available to federally funded scientists under President Bush #39;s three-year-old research policy share a previously unrecognized trait that fosters rejection
AP - St. Louis Cardinals second baseman Tony Womack was knocked out of the World Series opener Saturday night by a hard grounder that bounced up and hit him in the left collarbone, leaving him doubled over in pain.
Reuters - Military records contradict a critic's charge that U.S. Democratic presidential hopeful John Kerry did not come under fire during the battle that resulted in military honors for Kerry, The Washington Post reported on Thursday.
Global warming is heating the Arctic almost twice as fast as the rest of the planet in a thaw that threatens millions of livelihoods and could wipe
Chennai, Oct. 15. - Virender Sehwag is happy to score a century, rather relieved to be back in form. It was tough coming out of a lean phase and be back in form.
Gilat Satellite Networks (TASE, Nasdaq: GILTF) has entered into an OEM (original equipment manufacturer) agreement with giant telecoms equipment manufacturer Cisco Systems.
CHICAGO - Javier Valentin doubled home the go-ahead run with two outs in the 12th inning and the Cincinnati Reds played spoilers again, sending the Chicago Cubs to a crushing 2-1 defeat Thursday afternoon.
Phish made its farewell in Vermont this past weekend in true Phish style: playing its own musical marathon, swarmed by adoring fans and isolated from the rest of the world.
AP - An online statement posted Sunday in the name of an al-Qaida-linked group pledged that the Vatican would be spared, but repeated threats to "turn Rome into hell."
US communications regulators on Tuesday exempted Internet telephone services from certain state oversight, a boon for Vonage Holdings Corp.
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has arrived in northern Iraq for talks with Kurdish political leaders. The plans were not published before Mr Straw trip, which comes amid the continuing crisis over British hostage Ken Bigley.
In a burgeoning political and engineering scandal, Boston #39;s gleaming new underground Interstate 93 is riddled with hundreds of leaks.
He was the 19th-century version of a performance artist, a buckskin-clad faux-frontiersman whose lean and hungry look set drawing-room society all atwitter.
Small German firms follow phone giant Siemens by pushing for five more hours per week - without pay.
AFP - Royal Dutch/Shell plans to auction off its liquefied petroleum gas business, which is valued at more than one billion pounds.
Manchester City manager Kevin Keegan will write to referee Steve Dunn to apologise for his conduct in the players tunnel after the defeat at Newcastle on Sunday.
Reuters, CNN, CBS news, and the Washington Post are reporting that the FBI is investigating a possible Israeli spy in the Pentagon. The suspected individual is described as a mid-level Pentagon analyst "specialized in Iranian affairs." The analyst is suspected of passing classified documents to Israel via the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), a powerful pro-Israel lobby in Washington. According to CBS news, the analyst had ties #8220;to Rumsfeld's deputy Paul Wolfowitz and Defense Undersecretary Douglas Feith, both regarded as leading architects of the war on Iraq. #8221; However, another government official claims the suspect is "not in a level to influence policy."
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - McDonald's Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MCD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MCD.N&lt;/A&gt; said on Monday President and Chief Executive Charlie Bell had stepped down to focus on his cancer treatment and that Vice Chairman Jim Skinner would replace him.
Government warplanes bombed the largest city in Ivory Coast #39;s rebel-held north twice on Thursday in what a government military commander said was the launch of a new offensive to reunite the war-divided nation.
Maryland's seniors need to provide steadfast leadership to the underclassmen as the Terrapins enter a hostile environment at Mountaineer Field.
BRITISH hostage Kenneth Bigley was made to watch a video showing the beheading of one of his American friends before he begged Tony Blair to save his life.
AP - Third-seeded Juan Carlos Ferrero was upset by David Ferrer 3-6, 7-5, 6-3 Thursday in the second round of the Lyon Open.
Peyton Manning will look to draw closer to NFL history on Sunday, when the quarterback leads his Indianapolis Colts into battle to face the visiting Tennessee Titans.
Dell and Microsoft have teamed up to develop a combined enterprise IT management tool designed to offer a single point of administration for hardware and software.
FRANKFURT : As the euro continued to rise against the dollar, speculation intensified over whether the European Central Bank, meeting this week to set interest rates, would feel compelled to act either by intervening directly on the forex markets or by
Much to their chagrin, the Red Sox were long overdue for a game like this. All the elements that had been so reliable during this riveting stretch of baseball decided to
BAGHDAD, Iraq - U.S. jets on Thursday pounded the insurgent stronghold of Fallujah and a northern town astride a major smuggling route, killing dozens of people in the two attacks, officials and witnesses said...
WASHINGTON (CBS) Senate Commerce Committee Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) says he will introduce legislation imposing drug testing standards on professional athletes if baseball players and owners do not adopt a stringent crackdown on steroids by January
Fleeting childhood moments can have profound financial consequences.
This is my dream for future so-called American dream teams, no matter if they swing a golf club or cross over on the dribble. Not only that, they sit in coach.
SANTIAGO, Nov 21 (AFP) - US President George W. Bush on Sunday welcomed newly scheduled Iraq elections and a deal to shave billions of dollars off the war-torn country #39;s debt, calling on all creditors to follow suit.
GEORGE TOWN, Cayman Islands - Hurricane Ivan battered the Cayman Islands with ferocious 150-mph winds Sunday, flooding homes, ripping off roofs and toppling trees three stories tall as its powerful eye thundered past. It then strengthened to Category 5 as it moved Monday on course for Cuba...
Bill Parcells is always toughest on his teams after they win, especially when they win ugly. That means the next eight days could be excruciating for the Dallas Cowboys.
04.10.04 - By Ben Cohen: Felix Trinidad is back. After pulverising Ricardo Mayorga in eight of the most dramatic rounds in recent boxing history, he is now looking to revenge the sole blemish on his spectacular
One thing about the up-and-down world of the NFL: You can't shy away from teams coming off bad performances, because that would leave you with no one to pick.
AP - Carl Krauser scored all but two of his 17 points at the free throw line to lead No. 11 Pittsburgh to a 70-51 victory over Memphis on Tuesday night in the Jimmy V Classic.
US jobless claims rose unexpectedly last week in more worrying news for the labor market, government data showed on Thursday, while other indicators offered more positive signals for the economy.
NASA (news - web sites) is aiming for a mid-May launch of the first shuttle flight since the Columbia tragedy almost two years ago.
Investors shrugged when state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer said Dec. 10, 2001, that he was investigating research at Merrill Lynch amp; Co.
MCI Inc. reported Monday that it will take a $3.5 billion non-cash charge in the third quarter to reflect the severe downturn in its consumer long-distance telephone business. &lt;BR&gt;&lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-The Washington Post&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
Ohio State (7-2) handled Texas Tech #39;s (5-2) pressure defense and overcame anemic foul shooting to hang on for their first road win of the season, 77-71 over the Red Raiders.
AFP - Talks between Nigerian government officials and Niger Delta rebel leader Mujahid Dokubo Asari went into a third day under the shadow of a rebel deadline for foreign oil workers to quit the region, a member of the rebel delegation told AFP.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks opened slightly lower on Monday as chip maker Intel Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=INTC.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;INTC.O&lt;/A&gt; fell after a broker downgrade, weakening technology shares, while a drop in crude prices hurt energy companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=XOM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;XOM.N&lt;/A&gt;.
BOSTON At the First Baptist Church here, a few blocks from Fenway Park at the corner of Commonwealth and Clarendon, the subject for this Sunday #39;s service is: quot;Why Does God Allow Suffering?
By now, you know the story. Vijay Singh grew up poor in Fiji. Took up golf because of his father. Quit school to turn pro as a teenager but was kicked off the Asian Tour.
AP - Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said he will talk to Colin Powell about the need to end Israel's policy of "targeted killings" of Palestinian leaders when the U.S. secretary of state visits this month.
Britain #39;s Mark Lewis-Francis held off the USA #39;s Maurice Greene on the last leg to win a stunning gold medal in the men #39;s 4x100m relay.
AP - When Office Depot, Inc. stores ran an electronics recycling drive last summer that accepted everything from cell phones to televisions, some stores were overwhelmed by the amount of e-trash they received.
HOUSTON -- For the first time in franchise history, the Houston Comets will not be part of the WNBA postseason. Tangela Smith had 17 points and six rebounds for the Sacramento Monarchs, who used a 12-0 run
MSN Closes Search Engine Technology Preview Microsoft's MSN has closed down the preview/beta page of MSN Search Engine Technology ResearchBuzz reports. Trying to access it now gets you this page which includes the text "Once we are ready, we will release another preview of our new algorithmic search engine." I'm glad ...
Two Massachusetts Institute of Technology scientists are developing a cellphone that is so smart it can tell what you think and even predict your next move.
Moscow, Sep 20. (UNI): Russian troops have launched a special operation to capture Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev and rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov wanted for a series of terrorist attacks in Russia including the Beslan school strike.
Lycos Europe has yanked its quot;Make Love, Not Spam quot; anti-spam screensaver from its site, leaving only a cryptic message of quot;Stay Tuned quot; in its place.
TORONTO - Ford Motor Co. is reported to be on the verge of announcing a $1-billion investment at its plant in Oakville, Ont. The company has decided to build a flexible manufacturing plant at the site, the Toronto Star reported Friday.
Two US soldiers, including one from Carson, have been charged with murder in the death of an Iraqi civilian, the 1st Cavalry Division announced Monday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - General Growth Properties Inc. on Friday said it would buy Rouse Co. for $7.2 billion, adding such swank shopping centers as Chicago's Water Tower Place and Boston's Fanueil Hall to what is already the nation's second largest mall portfolio.
A week into one of South Asia's most devastating disasters in history, an international campaign to help Indonesia recover has at last moved into gear. But from the airport on, the distribution system slapped together has proved spotty at best.
KILKENNY - Tiger Woods will decide today if he will be able to play in a multi-million dollar championship after injuring his shoulder.
AP - Ernie Els was intrigued when he saw the cover of the book, showing Annika Sorenstam looming large with a club over her shoulder and a smile on her face.
Sudan and Western powers plunged into a war of words over Darfur on Friday, with Khartoum countering US charges of genocide by saying Washington was playing electoral politics with a humanitarian crisis.
There was a time when knocking out Mike Tyson was boxing #39;s equivalent to beating Ken Jennings at Final Jeopardy. It was the most Heruculean of labors and when it finally happened, it was an international event
Japan has said it will keep its troops in Iraq, despite the beheading of a Japanese hostage by Islamic militants. Officials had earlier confirmed that a body found in Baghdad yesterday was that of Shosei Koda
Newborn babies prefer to look at attractive faces, says a UK researcher, suggesting that face recognition is hardwired at birth, rather than learned.
The US Consumer Product Safety Commission, in cooperation with Lexmark, today recalled nearly 40,000 laser printers. According to a company statement, these printers can short-circuit, posing an electrical shock hazard to consumers.
ATHENS -- Matt Hemingway gambled in the men's high jump last night, passing on the fourth height of the competition (7 feet 6 inches) to save himself for later. He easily cleared his next two jumps to take the silver.
New York Yankees acting manager Willie Randolph, filling in for manager Joe Torre serving a game suspension, gestures as he yells to the bench during the Yankees 4-2 loss to the Toronto Blue Jays in Toronto, in this Oct. 2, 2004 file photo.
Iraqi and US troops have been involved in renewed clashes with insurgents in several areas of the capital, Baghdad. At least three policemen died when the rebels fired rocket-propelled grenades at their station in the Adhamiya area.
The Motley Fool - Shortly after we came back from our big vacation overseas in May, my Apple (Nasdaq: AAPL - News) PowerBook was hit with a computer virus. I can't tell you which one, but it was enough to cripple my Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT - News) Office for the Mac software. Symantec's (Nasdaq: SYMC - News) Norton Anti-Virus found the bug, and then eradicated it by exterminating my entire in-box. (Thanks, guys.)
President Ben Ali was elected for a fourth term, with close to 95 percent of the vote, according to results published by the ministry of interior.
&lt;strong&gt;Opinion&lt;/strong&gt; Deals with network operators make more sense
It signals the possibility of peace in the Middle East, they said, with the appointment of a new leader to replace the 75-year-old head of the PLO.
The Pentagon backed off its threat to withold its monthly payment of about $60 million a month from a Halliburton subsidiary, which provides services for troops.
Though Vern Holm is just getting into the wine business, his enterprise could be greatly impacted by the overturning of a prohibition-era law.
CROMWELL, Connecticut (Reuters) - Corey Pavin posted his best score in 14 years, firing an eight-under-par 62 to take a commanding three-shot lead after the first round of the inaugural $4.2 million Buick Championship on Thursday.
SAN FRANCISCO : EBay announced late it has agreed to buy three million shares of South Korea #39;s Internet Auction for 325 million dollars in cash.
NASA will attempt to set the world speed record for an air-intake engine tomorrow. The X-43A Hyper-X is a supersonic ramjet that may lead to more efficient launch vehicles and missiles in the future.
The group hunting for Saddam #39;s arsenal said it found no evidence the dictator had chemical, biological of nuclear weapons when US-led forces invaded Iraq last year.
AP - Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry says he would discontinue the color-coded terror alerts issued by the Department of Homeland Security and find "some more thoughtful way of alerting America," according to an interview in Rolling Stone magazine.
In what could be its final quarterly financial update before filing for Chapter 11, Delta Air Lines Inc. has reported a net loss of $646 million on $3.
The United States has reached an agreement with France, Britain and Germany on a draft UN resolution on Iran that calls for an immediate halt to Tehran #39;s uranium enrichment programme, a Western diplomat said late on Thursday.
Iran on Sunday said it was ready tohold negotiations on its nuclear program quot;without any conditions quot;,but Tehran could not be forced to do anything, the official IRNAnews agency reported.
BAGHDAD -- Iraq's interim prime minister, Iyad Allawi, is dispatching envoys to neighboring Arab states to win support for his handling of the insurgency in his homeland, a government spokesman said yesterday.
AFP - The French economy is expected to grow 2.1 percent this year, but will limp through the first half of 2005 at a 1.4 percent pace that threatens the official full-year target of 2.5 percent, the national statistics office INSEE said.
Ideally, Israel would be withdrawing from the Gaza Strip as part of a negotiated settlement with the Palestinians. Ideally, there would be no suspicion that the withdrawal is part
Reuters - Kashmiris weary of years of violence welcomed on Friday the governments surprising offer to reduce the number of its troops in the Himalayan territory, a move that could prompt old foe Pakistan to respond similarly.
Vijay Singh is making the game look easy by winning tournament after tournament, and millions upon millions of dollars, while chasing Tiger Woods #39; season money record.
AP - Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has approved bids for construction of 1,000 homes in Jewish West Bank settlements after freezing them earlier this month, amid growing friction with the United States over continued settlement expansion.
By now weve established that the fans are tired of college footballs bowl system, the prevailing opinion that wed all like to see a playoff.
AP - Doc Rivers got his team back on track while gaining a measure of revenge on his old squad, and the Boston Celtics snapped a four-game losing streak by beating the Orlando Magic 117-101 on Monday night.
Australia beat New Zealand by 213 runs in the second cricket Test at Adelaide to clinch a 2-0 series victory and complete a winning record against all nine teams at the sport #39;s elite level.
CURT SCHILLING, who was instrumental in helping the Boston Red Sox win the World Series for the first time in 86 years, had a better year than people realize.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) yesterday offered an optimistic assessment of prospects for the world #39;s leading industrialised economies.
The specialty chip maker predicts a lean transition quarter, but it plans a rebound in 2005.
Reuters - Japan resumed rescue efforts at first light on Monday as aftershocks rattled the area where the country's deadliest earthquake in nine years killed at least 23 people and injured more than 2,000 at the weekend.
Reuters, the news service and data company, which is trying to meet stringent cost-cutting targets, said Thursday it would triple the number of employees it has in India by the end of next year.
The number of new people signing up for jobless benefits plunged last week, partly reflecting a tapering off of filings related to Hurricane Charley.
The beleaguered networking gear maker says it won't be able to file earnings on the date it expected.
AP - Yasser Arafat will be buried at the battered West Bank headquarters that had been his virtual prison for the last three years, his aides decided after the Palestinian leader sank deeper into a coma.
TOKYO : The brokerage arm of Japan #39;s biggest lender, the Mizuho Financial Group, and Norinchukin Bank, the umbrella bank for farmers #39; cooperatives, are considering expanding their ties, an official said.
Young Ivorians embrace anti-French sentiment and struggle to break ties with the colonial master.
AP - 1910 #151; Philadelphia's Jack Coombs won his third game of the World Series, beating the Chicago Cubs 7-2 as the Athletics took the championship in five games. Eddie Collins had three hits, including two doubles, to lead the A's attack.
A $7.4 billion takeover bid for the Australian mining company WMC Resources has seen its share price surge by 36 per cent. The Swiss-based mining house Xstrata wants to add WMC Resources to its Australian mining portfolio.
MSN Messenger, Microsoft #39;s instant message service, is back up and running this morning after a routine maintenance operation went wrong, rendering the service sporadically unavailable for three days.
To some Britons, especially those 50 and older, it #39;s a word forged from #39;spiced #39; and #39;ham #39; to represent, quot;pink, chopped ham and pork rammed into square tins, quot; as the UK #39;s The Guardian story describes it.
Reuters - Iran said on Friday it might extend a partial freeze on uranium enrichment in order to ease Western fears about its nuclear ambitions, but a senior U.S. official dismissed this as a ploy to fend off tough U.N. action.
LONDON, England -- The English Football Association have charged Tottenham captain Jamie Redknapp with serious foul play. The Spurs captain was guilty of a late challenge on Tim Cahill that resulted in the
Venture capitalists curtailed their investments in the third quarter, suggesting the financiers who bankrolled the dot-com boom are taking a more sober approach to the revived interest in high-tech startups.
Talks to find a solution to the Darfur crisis in Sudan are abruptly postponed, as the security situation worsens.
Eli Manning, who will start his first professional game at quarterback on Sunday, insisted he would not try to establish his legacy in three hours.
AP - All-Pro left tackle Jonathan Ogden signed a new seven-year contract Thursday with the Baltimore Ravens.
AP - Andres Nocioni had 20 points and 12 rebounds, and Luol Deng added 18 points to lead the Chicago Bulls to a 95-92 preseason victory over the Boston Celtics on Tuesday night.
Reuters - U.S. oil prices rose on Monday as Iraq's oil exports continued at more than 30 percent below normal after sabotage attacks on pipelines.
NEW YORK - In an effort to capture more readers and advertising dollars, Dow Jones amp; Co. is launching a Saturday edition of its flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, beginning in September 2005, the company announced Wednesday.
The Indian defence minister, Pranab Mukherjee, has revealed that Indian and Pakistani military experts may soon discuss the Siachen issue.
The price range for the shares is for institutional clients and excludes brokerage fees. It values Hutchison Telecom at between US $3.
Bomb blasts killed at least 28 people and wounded 87 in north-eastern India yesterday in the deadliest attack since a ceasefire with the main separatist group in Nagaland began seven years ago.
BASEBALL Arizona (NL): Signed 3B Troy Glaus to a four-year contract. Atlanta (NL): Signed 1B Julio Franco. Chicago (AL): Signed OF Jermaine Dye. Los Angeles (NL): Signed 2B Jeff Kent. New York (AL): Named Neil Allen bullpen coach and Rich Monteleone special pitching instructor. San Diego (NL): Signed OF Eric Young; designated P Mike Bynum for assignment.
Kodak, one of the largest digital imaging companies, filed a lawsuit against Sun Microsystems stating that Sun has infringed on Kodak #39;s various patents, however, the case centered around three main ones.
US planes and artillery pounded Falluja on Monday and Iraq #39;s interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi said he had authorized a US-led offensive to rid the Sunni Muslim city of insurgents.
KHARTOUM - The United Nations has condemned the takeover of a town in Darfur by rebels. The UN #39;s envoy to Sudan, Jan Pronk, says the assault leading to the capture violates a ceasefire agreement signed by rebel leaders.
SEOUL, South Korea The head of the UN nuclear watchdog says although the nuclear experiments South Korea performed years ago were small, his agency needs to make sure they don #39;t happen again.
California #39;s Attorney General Bill Lockyer said today that he is suing Diebold over fraudulent claims he believes that company has made with regards to their electronic voting machines.
Reuters - A Tokyo court on Friday rejected a request by former world chess champion Bobby Fischer to have Japanese authorities halt procedures to deport him, Kyodo news agency reported.
The incoming EU Commission president is to call for a delay in a crucial vote on his new team, reports say.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices perked up from 7-week lows on Friday on forecasts for colder-than-normal weather in the U.S. Northeast.
The managerial merry-go-round shows no signs of stopping, with former Southampton boss Gordon Strachan now the favourite to replace new Saints manager Harry Redknapp at Portsmouth.
IT workers' confidence in the employment market kept growing in July, but techies are less happy with actual jobs than workers overall.
&lt;p&gt;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt; By Patrick Markey&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt; CARACAS, Venezuela (Reuters) - Venezuela's President HugoChavez pressed for a new anti-terrorism proposal on Saturdayafter a car bomb killed a top state prosecutor investigatingopponents accused of backing a 2002 coup against him.&lt;/p&gt;
Seagate Technology offers a better than expected revenue and earnings forecast; the stock should still be avoided.
Antonio Daniels #39; driving 8-foot shot with 7.2 seconds left gave the Seattle SuperSonics an 88-87 victory over the Toronto Raptors tonight.
Earlier, SMFG said it offered the one-for-one share exchange ratio to UFJ Holdings as part of its bid to win the support of UFJ for its merger proposal over a rival offer from MTFG.
Crude oil futures fell, posting their biggest two-day decline in London in two months, after China #39;s central bank raised interest rates for the first time in nine years in an attempt to stem inflation.
Washington - US bankruptcy law, invoked by Russian oil group Yukos on Wednesday, allows a company in financial difficulties to continue functioning while it seeks an agreement with creditors.
Unionized workers have reached an agreement with a group representing 14 luxury hotels to end an eight-week lockout, allowing about 4,000 maids, bellhops
NAGPUR, India : World champions Australia conquered the final frontier here when they won their first series on Indian soil in 35 years with a 342-run rout in the third Test.
STRASBOURG/SAN FRANCISCO - The European Commission on Tuesday approved Oracle Corp. #39;sproposed US $7.7 billion ( $11 billion) hostile takeover of rival business software company PeopleSoft Inc.
NEW YORK - Orlando Hernandez will try to continue his unbeaten season when the AL East-leading New York Yankees close out a three-game series with the Toronto Blue Jays.
Though the oft-delayed end of support for Windows NT 4.0 will arrive December 31, Microsoft this week detailed the steps its corporate customers can take to continue receiving support for the OS.
When Americans go to the polls in November, they will confront a voting system beset by many of the same problems that produced the bitterly disputed outcome four years ago.
The Patriots are going to have to get by without Ty Law for at least a month -- and perhaps as long as seven weeks -- after the Pro Bowl cornerback was diagnosed
Neon Systems, a provider of mainframe integration solutions for Microsoft .Net and Java applications, has acquired ClientSoft for $10.5 million in cash and the rights to purchase 1.1 million shares of Neon stock. The privately held ClientSoft specializes in secure, high-performance integration solutions for mainframe Web services. The purchase, which adds 180 customers to Neon's base of 300 customers, brings together Neon's Shadow z/Services and ClientSoft's ServiceBuilder product lines and should provide customers with a robust set of solutions to support service-oriented architectures (SOAs).
Second-seeded Andre Agassi, looking for his 18th masters title, edged Max Mirnyi of Belarus 7-6 (5), 6-3 Tuesday in the second round of the US $3 million Madrid Masters.
The homeland security secretary today inspected arrangements for the Republican convention that starts next week.
JERUSALEM, Nov. 15. - Israel on Monday offered its first indication that it was reassessing relations with the Palestinians after Yasser Arafats death, suggesting it might coordinate a planned withdrawal
Manchester City stand firm to deny United in the Manchester derby at Old Trafford.
Paula Radcliffe has never faced the kind of pressure she will encounter when she runs in the New York City Marathon here today. Just 10 weeks after failing so dramatically to complete the Olympic marathon
AFP - British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw arrived in Sudan's violence-plagued western region of Darfur to see the plight of refugees driven from their homes by state-sponsored militias.
Reuters - Internet bloggers have drawn blood and American journalism may never be the same.
SAN SEBASTIAN, Spain (Reuters) - A Basque nationalist party banned by Spain as ETA's political wing unveiled a plan to end the long-running conflict in the region on Sunday, saying it wanted peace talks.
Deutsche Bank AG and Thomas Weisel Partners LLC will pay a total of $100 million to settle allegations they published misleading stock research to win investment-banking business, becoming
Conventional wisdom said that when the Cardinals and Astros hooked up in the National League Championship Series, there might be a few runs scored.
World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. on Tuesday filed suit against toy maker Jakks Pacific Inc. and video game maker THQ Inc._, alleging a bribery scheme involving a lucrative license deal
KABUL (Reuters) - Hamid Karzai was cruising to victory in Afghanistan's first direct presidential elections, but by Wednesday the returns so far have underscored the ethnic fault lines that have often divided the country.
NewsFactor - Apple (Nasdaq: AAPL) has updated its Unix-based Mac OS X operating system to version 10.3.6. The software release, issued Friday, is Apple's first incremental update to OS X in almost two months.
Italian police have apprehended more than 650 illegal immigrants in southern Italy in what is reported to be one of the largest daily influxes of third world migrants.
In any aspect of life you would like to think that eventually - in some way, shape or form - that justice will be done, that the right thing would happen to the right people.
I, too, am disappointed in Target #39;s decision not to allow the Salvation Army to use their facilities this holiday season. Yes, I believe that Target has the right to allow or not allow organizations to solicit on their property.
NEW YORK (Billboard) - DualDisc and DVD(plus) discs have until now been devoid of graphics, apart from limited text on the inner ring. Because both sides of these CD/DVD hybrids contain optical data, it has been impossible to apply graphics to them.
WASHINGTON: If General Pervez Pervez Musharraf succeeds in his declared intention of rolling back political Islam and normalising relations with India, he could prove to be a bridge to democracy
Kerry Kittles hyperextended his right knee in practice Tuesday - the same knee that was operated on for the fifth time last off-season.
The British and French Formula One grands prix have been saved after teams struck a deal with Bernie Ecclestone on Tuesday, according to Minardi boss Paul Stoddart.
The Chinese city of Beijing has cancelled an order for Microsoft software, apparently bowing to protectionist sentiment. The deal has come under fire in China, which is trying to build a domestic software industry.
US agents busted an online network suspected of allowing the illegal trading of hundreds of movies, songs, video games and software programs over the Internet, the first such federal action taken
VIENNA (Reuters) - It is unclear if Iran's nuclear ambitions are entirely peaceful, but there is still no firm evidence that Tehran is secretly developing atomic weapons as Washington asserts, the U.N. nuclear watchdog said on Tuesday.
NEW ORLEANS, Louisiana (AFP) - Jamal Mashburn, a former All-Star forward whose National Basketball Association career has been dimmed by injuries, will miss all of the upcoming season with a right knee injury.
To modernize its venerable line of mainframe-based CICS middleware, IBM last week introduced an updated version of its CICS Transaction Server that enables IT to extend the product to work better with SOAs (service-oriented architectures) through Web services. With the release of CICS Transaction Server for z/OS Version 3.1, administrators can now integrate their traditional workloads to fully participate in an SOA.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Falling prices in September for plasma televisions and digital cameras sparked the biggest monthly decline in U.S. consumer electronics prices in five months, according to an industry study prepared for Reuters.
Judges at the war crimes trial of the ex-Yugoslav leader may issue subpoenas to defence witnesses unwilling to testify.
CANBERRA (Reuters) - An Australian terror suspect was offered the services of a prostitute by the U.S. military if he agreed to spy on other detainees held at the Guantanamo Bay base in Cuba, according to court documents. In an affidavit unsealed by a U.S. District Court and seen by Reuters on Friday, David Hicks, a 29-year-old convert to Islam, said he was also beaten while blindfolded and handcuffed, threatened with weapons and had his head rammed into asphalt.
The Green Bay Packers and Tennessee Titans will try to keep from falling to 1-4 Monday night. But after the nationally televised game in Green Bay, Wisconsin, one of them will be.
President Bush may face a political hurricane in November if frustrated Floridians turn disaster into votes, experts say. The Sunshine State will be paying a lot
The death toll from floods unleashed by Tropical Storm Jeanne rose sharply Sunday to nearly 2,000 people, with many still missing, as officials said they found hundreds more bodies in Haiti #39;s devastated northwestern region.
AP - Retired Gen. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono was sworn in as Indonesia's sixth president on Wednesday after winning the country's first-ever direct elections for head of state last month.
LYNDON, Vt. The state Agency of Transportation is appealing a Lyndon Planning Board decision that requires pilots to activate a rotating beacon at the state airport.
Disney announced yesterday that it would release its films on Sony #39;s Blu-ray DVD format - a week after three other Hollywood studios backed rival Toshiba #39;s HD-DVD.
Hewlett-Packard is planning to build Virus Throttler technology into ProLiant servers and ProCurve switches starting in early 2005.
The Cassini-Huygens mission #39;s second (comparatively) close encounter Monday with Saturn #39;s moon Titan generated more atmospheric drag on the spacecraft than expected, NASA mission controllers say.
LOS ANGELES - Their worst opening-night defeat in 27 years became even more difficult for the Sonics to swallow when they learned that Ronald Murray will miss at least the next week because of a strained left quadriceps.
Drug giant Merck says the Food and Drug Administration wants more information, but is prepared to approve the company #39;s successor drug to recalled pain reliever Vioxx.
Canadian Press - OTTAWA (CP) - The federal government will be making a huge mistake if it gives the provinces more money for health without attaching conditions to ensure it is spent to reform the system, says Roy Romanow.
For several years before and after Vioxx was approved for commercial use, executives of Merck (MRK:NYSE - news - research) were reportedly aware of ?
AP - President Bush said Friday he'll carry a message of shared values and goals to Europe during a trip planned after his inauguration, reaching out to those dismayed by the Iraq war and what they see as a go-it-alone foreign policy.
TEHRAN -- Iran said yesterday it is prepared to temporarily suspend some nuclear activities but would not surrender its right to enrich uranium.
Having done all it can with the PS2, Sony has today launched the PSP to a waiting Japanese market. Roughly 1,300 impatient people waited their turn at an outlet of Yodobashi in Shinjuku district while the
AFP - A "serious incident" has occurred between soldiers from the Sudanese army and members of a commission, led by Chad, monitoring a ceasefire in Sudan's Darfur region, corroborating sources said.
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador - El Salvador national soccer coach Juan Ramon Paredes was fired Saturday following two recent defeats in World Cup qualifying games.
Microsoft (MSFT) and watch maker Swatch are offering a new line of wireless data watches, the companies said Wednesday, bringing the era of Dick Tracy wristwatch radios one step closer.
FOUR women running British companies made it into today #39;s #39;Top 50 Women to Watch #39; survey by the Wall Street Journal. American Rose Marie Bravo has achieved celebrity status worldwide with a turnaround of the
If anybody knows about burnout, it #39;s Johnny Miller. Now the straight-shooting color analyst for NBC #39;s golf coverage, Miller had 18 PGA Tour titles before his 30th birthday, including two major championships
Whitney Tilson argues that the exceptional money managers are in hedge funds.
Reuters - A full-fledged Windows XP computer that's a fraction of the size of a laptop seems like the answer to the digerati's prayers, but the praise greeting the OQO Model 01 has been decidedly muted.
A new 24-hour help desk will cover non-Dell or non-PC problems--for a charge.
The General Election Commission (KPU)-sponsored dialog has failed to live up to expectations that it would be a forum for presidential candidates to convince the public of their platforms and programs, mass communication experts said on Wednesday.
Chief financial officer for Russia #39;s embattled oil giant Yukos said Thursday he delayed his return to Moscow indefinitely after Russian prosecutors had summoned him for questioning.
Developing countries are starting to flex their financial muscles and invest overseas.
Computer Associates International Inc. on Thursday introduced usage-based pricing for its mainframe-management products in response to customer interest in the more flexible licensing model.
The BAR Formula One team has officially been put up for sale by administrators Simon Morris and Andrew Hosking - but only to aid the restructuring of the team that will see Honda take a 45 stake in the Brackley based outfit.
An American woman and a young Afghan girl have died from their wounds after a suicide bomb attack in the Afghan capital of Kabul. A Taliban suicide fighter blew himself up in the attack.
President Pervez Musharraf #39;s loyalist Shaukat Aziz was elected as Pakistan #39;s Prime Minister in a National Assembly vote boycotted by the opposition in protest of the speaker #39; decision not to permit their jailed candidate Javed Hashmi to take part in the
AP - At least one new variant of a worm spread rapidly from Asia and Europe to US computers, filling up people #39;s email accounts, but otherwise causing little apparent damage.
The day ended with India having regained some of the ground they lost in the morning due to their shoddy display with the bat, but throughout, there were displays by the batsmen of the two teams which brought out clearly the mood and confidence levels in
Description: A study released Monday that says that global warming is particularly intense in the Arctic. The melting of glaciers, thinning sea ice and changes in permafrost have acute impacts on Arctic residents
Andre Stolz played like a veteran instead of a struggling rookie when it counted most Sunday, shooting a 5-under 67 to win the Michelin Championship at Las Vegas by a shot over Tom Lehman and two others.
Telecommunications maker Nortel Networks (NYSE: NT) won #39;t have to lay off as many people as expected. The Canadian company announced Thursday that it plans to lay off 3,250 employees - about 250 less than
The American defence minister has thanked Bulgaria for the work of its contingent in Iraq, and expressed appreciation of Bulgarian troops #39; professionalism.
AP - The Democrats have come to town to prick rhetorical balloons at the Republican National Convention.
Cypress Semiconductor Corp., which makes computer and communications chips, on Thursday said third-quarter profit dropped as demand dried up throughout the industry.
This is the horror captured on video of the more than 1000 hostages inside the Russian school before it was turned into a bloodbath last week.
Yahoo launched a beta version of My Yahoo Search, giving users more-advanced Web-search capabilities. Competition has been heating up in the search-engine space, with Amazon.
Several explosions went off in the Iraqi Oil Ministry compound in central Baghdad on Saturday and witnesses said the explosions were probably caused by a mortar attack.
WASHINGTON Oct. 7, 2004 - Consumers cut back on their borrowing in August by the largest amount since the end of 1990 as confidence in the economy fell and energy prices surged.
LOS ANGELES: Denver Nuggets forward Carmelo Anthony, who charged with marijuana possession last week, said Thursday at a pre-season National Basketball Association game that the drugs were not his.
PC World - Eleven charged in 'Digital Marauder' case that could hit #36;87 million.
Opec members call for a cut in rampant over-production as prices oil prices plummet amid warmer US weather.
Marcelo Bielsa resigns as coach of Argentina less than a month after steering the country to Olympic gold.
Dreamworks Studios said on Thursday it had delayed the release of its highly anticipated animated movie #39;Shrek 3 #39; by six months as Hollywood frantically reshuffles its cartoon debuts.
Britain, leading an uphill international battle to help curb Afghanistan #39;s massive narcotics #39; production, says it is fairly confident its strategy will show a reduction in output within a year.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=XMSR.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;XMSR.O&lt;/A&gt; shares rose nearly 6 percent before the bell on Wednesday ahead of a news conference the company is holding in conjunction with Major League Baseball.
Get INQ7 breaking news on your Smart mobile phone in the Philippines. Send INQ7 BREAKING to 386. CLEVELAND, United States of America -- LeBron James scored 33 points and Zydrunas Ilgauskas added 16 to spark
ATHENS (Reuters) - Shawn Crawford led an American sweep of Olympic medals in the 200 meters in Athens Thursday, ignoring the jeers of a hostile crowd livid that their local hero was not on the starting line after missing a doping test.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Steve Finley hit a grand slam home run to cap a seven-run rally in the bottom of the ninth inning as the Los Angeles Dodgers clinched the NL West title with a 7-3 win over the San Francisco Giants Saturday.
Bruce Nelson, chairman and chief executive of Office Depot Inc. of Delray Beach, Fla., Monday resigned by mutual agreement with the board.
US troops have found a massive weapons cache in the former rebel stronghold of Fallujah. As the grim toll in the fight for the ruined city passed 2000, Iraqi soldiers combing
San Diego Chargers quarterback Drew Brees expects to start Sunday at Denver despite sustaining a mild concussion in a loss to the New York Jets.
Facing growing competition from open source software providers, Microsoft has decided to allow governments and international organizations access to source code for its Office 2003 productivity suite.
NEW YORK: Peace possibly has a chance, but it can only come if violence on innocents is stopped. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said here on Saturday that a full stop to cross-border terrorism was a necessary precondition for peace with Pakistan.
&lt;p&gt;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt; BRASILIA, Brazil (Reuters) - Brazil said on Wednesday itgot a go-ahead from the U.N. nuclear watchdog to crank up itsuranium enrichment plant this year after months of negotiationsover access for nonproliferation inspectors.&lt;/p&gt;
MEMPHIS, Tenn. - Eric Shelton scored his fourth touchdown with 37 seconds left, and No. 14 Louisville held off Memphis 56-49 on Thursday night.
Jason Casey threw a pair of second-quarter touchdown passes and Tufts stymied a fourth-quarter uprising to hold off Bates, 14-12, yesterday at Ellis Oval/Zimman Field in Somerville.
LONDON (AFP) - Ryanair and easyJet both announced plans to expand in the Italian market following the collapse of the low-cost airline Volare, which has declared insolvency and suspended flights and ticket sales.
n Sept. 2, Microsoft unveiled its iTunes Music Store. That sentence may sound a little strange, but that is, in fact, what happened.
Reuters - Lucent Technologies Inc. , among the world's largest makers of telecommunications equipment, on Wednesday said quarterly earnings rose, helped by improvement in its wireless networks business, which makes base stations and other products.
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat remained critically ill and unconscious at a military hospital near here Friday, but hospital officials said his condition had not deteriorated.
Nokia today announced the Nokia 9300, a new high-end smartphone with integrated full keyboard, that replaces its 9290 Communicator.
Grotech Capital Group Inc. is getting back into the fish business.
Detroit: The Ford Motor Company has surprised analysts by offering a brighter outlook for the third quarter and 2004 earnings, even as it announced it was swinging the axe at its luxury Jaguar division.
roundup Plus: Credit union beefs up database security...Computer scientists slam e-voting machines..."The Sims 2" hits 1 million sales.
Next fall, a team will venture to the Mariana Trench to drop a remotely operated camera system 7 miles down to the bottom of the deepest spot on Earth. Here are some milestones on the voyage to the bottom of the sea. By Michael Menduno from Wired magazine.
BAGHDAD -- Kidnappers in Iraq freed seven hostages yesterday, releasing two female Italian aid workers who were abducted from their home three weeks ago, two of the women's Iraqi colleagues and three Egyptian employees of a local cell phone company.
The top U.S. maker of computer hard-disc drives forecast quarterly sales and earnings above Wall Street estimates amid stronger demand for its products.
NEW YORK -- For millions of Americans, gymnast Paul Hamm #39;s fame began only when the broad-shouldered Olympian shrugged off a fall in the vaulting competition last week and made an inspired comeback to win gold.
I wish I weren #39;t old enough to remember the old Who classic, quot;Pictures of Lily, quot; and I #39;m sure the management at Eli Lilly (NYSE: LLY) would like to forget the last few weeks.
Prime Minister Tony Blair will discuss the fight against terrorism and Middle East peace with Pakistan #39;s President Pervez Musharraf when they meet tomorrow, officials say.
WASHINGTON (CBS.MW) - The Federal Open Market committee is meeting behind closed doors on Tuesday and the most that financial markets can muster is a collective yawn.
The space program Sean O #39;Keefe is leaving behind - probably before the second anniversary of the shuttle accident that will define his tenure - is far different from the agency he stepped into three years ago.
Well kids, it #39;s only two more sleeps until the much anticipated middleweight showdown between undisputed champion Bernard Hopkins and Oscar De La Hoya takes place at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The Federal Communications Commission on Thursday approved rules for transmitting broadband communications signals over electric power lines, clearing the way for the expansion of high-speed Internet access through home electrical outlets.
Canadian Press - LACOLLE, Que. (CP) - Several hundred seniors from northern New York state boarded buses and arrived in this Canadian border community on Friday to pay #36;25 US each for their flu shots.
roundup Plus: AMD starts shipping 90-nanometer chips...ABC.com to air on Real's SuperPass...Lenovo revenue grows, but problems persist.
The ZigBee Alliance, an industry standards group dedicated to promoting low-power wireless networks, ratified the first ZigBee specification this week.
Robert McTeer #39;s tenure as president of the Dallas Federal Reserve Bank was marked by his endless advocacy for free trade and his belief that rising productivity could trump inflation.
AP - In the players' lounge, in the locker rooms, in officials' offices Wednesday, TVs around the U.S. Open showed Jennifer Capriati's quarterfinal victory over Serena Williams.
AFP - Militants threatening to kill three UN workers held hostage in Afghanistan set a fresh deadline for their demands to be met and blamed the United States for slowing up negotiations.
There aren't many players in baseball who can change a game with their speed. But Dave Roberts is certainly among the handful who can, and the Red Sox utility outfielder made his presence felt on the bases in Games 4 and 5.
ALBANY, N.Y. -- A California-based company that brokers life, accident, and disability policies for leading US companies pocketed millions of dollars a year in hidden payments from insurers and from charges on clients' unsuspecting workers, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer charged yesterday.
With the United States keeping to the sidelines, delegates from more than 190 countries have gathered here both to celebrate the enactment of the
Soldiers who reached an isolated Pacific Ocean village in Aurora province reported finding about about 100 dead. In the worst-hit town of Real, in nearby Quezon province, TV images showed bodies buried under
For Putnam Investments, the end of the Jeffrey W. Greenberg reign at Marsh amp; McLennan Cos. is bittersweet.
IBM has added a new feature to WebSphere Application Server designed to help safeguard Internet business applications against outages.
Sachin Tendulkar was thrilled, but not satisfied, by his record-equalling 34th test century against Bangladesh in Dhaka on Saturday.
AP - Iran said Sunday that demands from the U.N. atomic watchdog agency that it freeze all work on uranium enrichment #151; technology that can be used for nuclear weapons #151; were "illegal."
NEW YORK (Reuters) - SBC Communications &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=SBC.N qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;SBC.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday said it reached a 10-year, $400 million deal with Microsoft Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=MSFT.O qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;MSFT.O&lt;/A&gt; to provide next-generation television services.
On-line customization was a slow starter in the 1990's. But as technology has improved, so has the variety.
Fannie Mae, the largest buyer of US home loans, was accused of securities fraud by Ohio Attorney General Jim Petro, who said the company manipulated its earnings to artificially inflate its stock price.
Previously citing a quot;sense of urgency quot; on North Korea issues, US Secretary of State Colin Powell headed into Seoul yesterday from China for a two-day visit to discuss international and bilateral affairs.
BERLIN - Authorites on Friday arrested a Syrian-German businessman who is wanted by Spain on charges he helped fund the al-Qaida terrorist network for years and who appeared in a wedding video at a mosque with some of the Sept. 11 hijackers, German officials said...
Propelled by Google envy, new players and Internet industry giants are rushing into the online search market.
AP - Stephen Graham scored 16 points, including two three-point plays in the final 4 1/2 minutes, and No. 5 Oklahoma State beat No. 4 Syracuse 74-60 on Tuesday night in the Jimmy V Classic.
In what was billed as the biggest federal crackdown ever on Internet crime, the Justice Department announced Thursday it arrested or convicted more than 150 people across the country.
In the four days since New York Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer alleged that brokers and corporate insurance carriers were engaged in bid-rigging and secret payoffs
Retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said Thursday that its net sales grew 10.8 percent in September, helped by a boost from its international division and strong sales at Wal-Mart locations.
The temporary pool set up for the World Short Course Championships is, well, short. Swimmers dive in and a few breaths later, they reach the wall at the other end.
Leg spinner Stuart MacGill and all rounder Andrew Symonds were left out of Australia #39;s squad on Thursday for the tour to India in October and November after the selectors decided to go for fresh blood.
German Michael Schumacher of Ferrari is seen at the Interlagos race track in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Saturday, Oct. 23, 2004. (AP Photo/Victor R. Caivano).
Birgit Fischer settled for silver, leaving the 42-year-old Olympian with two medals in two days against decidedly younger competition.
Editor #39;s Summary: At a supercomputing conference, Microsoft announced a new tool kit that will let developers create high-performance computing applications.
By BRUCE MEYERSON NEW YORK (AP) -- A new cellular application promises to help vision-impaired people who can't read the screen of a mobile phone. It responds to spoken commands with voice recognition technology and reads back menu options, text messages, and other information to the user...
Romania's president-elect warns he may call fresh elections if his alliance fails to form a new government.
AP - Waiting has become a part-time job for Lee Suggs, one he'd like to quit for good.
The US Department of Justice launched an investigation of accounting services the American International Group Inc. provided to PNC that may have violated securities laws, the company said.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMZN.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMZN.O&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday posted a higher quarterly profit but its stock fell more than 4 percent as the online retailer's results failed to top Wall Street expectations.
Reuters - A study of a 2003 heatwave in Europe may give Pacific islanders and environmentalists new ammunition for legal cases blaming the United States for global warming, advocates said on Thursday.
DSL, cable providers offer new discounts--with a catch.
Internet auction firm eBay agrees to buy Rent.com for $415m (214m), giving it access to more of the online property market.
Nextel Communications is in advanced talks to merge with the Sprint Corporation, a deal that would form the third largest cellphone company in the nation.
currently CEO of Philips #39; consumer electronics business groups -- will succeed the unit #39;s CEO Scott McGregor. The company is scheduled to hold a Semiconductors and Technology analysts day in Holland on Friday.
BAGHDAD American warplanes pounded the vast Baghdad slum of Sadr City overnight after a US patrol came under gunfire, the military said on Tuesday.
The Senate cleared a path for a bill to hand out about $140 billion in corporate tax breaks, but it was blocked from a final vote by a fight over a provision aimed at helping reserve soldiers on active duty in Iraq.
Spyware, those annoying programs that snoop on a user's actions, remain a Windows-only phenomenon.
CHARLOTTE -- Carolina Panthers quarterback Jake Delhomme only remembers one thing about the 1997 draft -- that he wasn #39;t going to be in it.
Reuters - The European Commission moved forward with a landmark emissions trading system on Wednesday by approving eight national plans that allocate how much carbon dioxide (CO2) industrial plants are allowed to emit.
WOBURN -- Few developers could build a commercial property empire of 74 debt-free office, industrial, retail, and research buildings valued at about $800 million. Even fewer would then give most of it away.
PeopleSoft Inc. posted a third-quarter profit and said sales beat analysts #39; estimates, a turnaround that may encourage Oracle Corp.
Swimmer Michael Phelps might have turned in his most wonderfully uplifting performance of the Olympics last night. And he didn #39;t even get wet.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Oracle is set to kick off its OpenWorld developer conference in San Francisco on Monday, with analysts expecting announcements about product enhancements and at least some words about the company #39;s long-running, $9.2 billion
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) has already produced over 80 products using 90nm processes, and the company expects to tape out 40 more products at this technology node by the end of this year, according to Genda Hu, vice president of
Coca-Cola on Friday agreed to alter its sales practices in some European markets, an offer likely to bring to an end a five-year investigation by the European Commission into whether the soft drinks giant was stifling retail competition.
Gregg Zaun homered and Orlando Hudson had three hits and an RBI, leading the Toronto Blue Jays past the Baltimore Orioles 4-1 Monday night.
Two Italians were killed in a landslide this weekend as fierce storms pounded the country, causing floods that slowed trains, cut off traffic and forced hundreds of people to evacuate their homes.
A 24-year-old Romanian cheats a California computer equipment distributor out of $10 million. An Australian teenager causes a release of raw sewage by hacking into a treatment plants system.
washingtonpost.com - Microsoft's Media Center edition of Windows XP -- a special layer of software designed to let people enjoy their digital photos, music and videos from across the room -- has to rank as one of the company's bigger disappointments in a while. All the money Microsoft has thrown into promoting Media Center has yet to lend it any momentum in the market.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's prime minister insisted Wednesday that Japan would not withdraw its troops from Iraq despite a threat by a militant group to behead a Japanese hostage unless Tokyo pulled them out.
AP - Buffalo lost backup quarterback Travis Brown late in the third quarter with what appeared to be a left knee injury.
His friends know why: quot;He #39;s the Brad Pitt at Notre Dame, quot; said Adam Graessle, one of Quinn #39;s former teammates at Coffman High in Dublin, Ohio.
Who would have thought that stardust, the stuff of fairy tales and popular songs, could actually be collected on metal plates. It sounds funny, but this is no laughing matter.
roundup Plus: IBM gives grants to universities...Sun expands pay-as-you go supercomputing...SGI works on Linux performance software.
AP - Researchers and businesses in West Virginia will be able to access the first state-sponsored public Internet computing grid when the Global Grid Exchange is launched next month.
SUPREME COURT The Supreme Court is refusing to hear a challenge to the federal do-not-call telephone registry. Telemarketers have been trying to invoke free-speech rights to do away with the ban on unwanted phone solicitations.
One of two Italian women freed from captivity in Iraq said Thursday they feared for their lives throughout their three-week abduction, despite
When was the last time a consumer cyclical stock in the auto and truck parts segment soared over 100 in a single day? Today. China Automotive Systems (Nasdaq: CAAS) announced today that its 51
No. 2 Nordic bank eyes stronger EPS in #39;06; shares fall 4.2 due to deal #39;s size, reduced buybacks. MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Denmark #39;s Danske Bank has bought two Irish banks from National Australia Bank (NAB) for
Stocks are posting some early gains this morning. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 10 points in today #39;s early going. Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange hold a 4-3 lead over decliners.
Coca-Cola Enterprises said its profits fell more than 20 percent in the third quarter, thanks in part to soft retail sales in North America.
BASEBALL Chicago (AL): Activated P Scott Schoeneweis from the 15-day DL. New York (NL): Named Omar Minaya general manager/executive vice president of baseball operations and signed him to five-year contract; named Jim Duquette senior vice president of baseball operations.
Gardez (Afghanistan), Sept. 16 (Reuters): Afghan President Hamid Karzai escaped an assassination bid today when a rocket was fired at his US military helicopter as it was landing in the southeastern town of Gardez.
Reuters - The stationary life of acclaimed British sitcom "The Office" is taking flight in a DVD promotional campaign with United Airlines beginning next month.
Before Game 4 of the World Series, Tim Wakefield was asked what Boston would be like if its Red Sox finally won a world championship.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--Unable to repel an invasion of foreigners into the once tightly-controlled Macau gaming market, casino baron Stanley Ho has joined forces with Australia #39;s
AP - The Boston Red Sox were beating up on pitchers #151; until they ran into Gil Meche.
Open-source software and off-the-shelf hardware make strong showing among the best of the biggest.
NEW YORK - US stocks are seen in a contemplative mood Friday with the revised second-quarter gross domestic product reading likely to have a large bearing on sentiment and overall direction.
After half a decade of turmoil, a picture of air travel in the U.S. is starting to emerge, and it is far different from the caring image the airlines like to present.
As antitrust pressure against Intel appeared to ease today, the European Commission filed complaints against France, the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland saying they unfairly
NEWCASTLE, ENGLAND - England deservedly beat Ukraine 3-0 today in their only soccer quot;friendly quot; before the start of their 2006 World Cup qualifying programme next month.
Hollinger International Inc. said Tuesday that it had found cases of inflated circulation at some of its newspapers, including the Jerusalem Post, in addition to previously disclosed problems at the Chicago Sun-Times.
Prudential, the UK #39;s second largest insurer, shocked its shareholders today by asking them to fund a 1bn expansion plan. The company has invited investors to buy one new share for every six they own at a reduced price of 308p.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries wants oil prices to fall faster to an ideal price of around US $30 a barrel, and will discuss whether to increase production at a meeting next month, the group #39;s president said Thursday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A Connecticut man was arrested on Tuesday on charges that he illegally sold a secret source code used for Microsoft Corp.'s Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 2000 programs, federal prosecutors said.
LONDON, England -- Arsene Wenger has ruled out a January transfer swoop for Australia #39;s Mark Schwarzer or any of the other goalkeepers he has been linked with.
Boasting a stingy defense and excellent special teams play, Bishop Feehan captured a Division 2A Super Bowl berth yesterday and the chance to win a fourth consecutive title.
North Korea Friday denied reports that pictures of leader Kim Jong-il had been removed from public buildings in Pyongyang and that Kim was losing influence.
AFP - The European Union (EU) agreed in principle to lift an arms embargo on Libya after pressure from Italy.
LSU defensive end Marcus Spears and linebacker Cameron Vaughn combined for the go-ahead touchdown to help the No. 17 Tigers beat Alabama 26-10 on Saturday night.
Novell, responding to Steve Ballmer #39;s latest attack on Linux, is accusing Microsoft of selectively using biased reports to back up its claims.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Jerome Bettis ran for 129 yards and the Pittsburgh Steelers used a stifling defense to edge the host Cincinnati Bengals 19-14 for their eighth straight win Sunday.
WASHINGTON -- Though President Bush wants to move quickly to replace outgoing NASA Administrator Sean O #39;Keefe, it could be at least a month or longer before the Senate confirms a new space chief.
AFP - Chart-topping pop singer Natasha Bedingfield's laptop computer -- with a hard disk full of new songs and lyrics -- has been stolen at Heathrow airport.
The software monolith extends an intellectual property plan to all. Also: U.S. opposes the WTO's online gambling plan hellip;. Microsoft will offer a long awaited preview of its search-engine technology hellip;. and more.
The timid media won't do it, so 'radical' librarians are standing up against the government to protect free speech and fight censorship. Commentary by Adam L. Penenberg.
It started to sink in for Matt Leinart as he shook the hands behind the stage. About two dozen past Heisman Trophy winners gathered in a ballroom here at the Hilton New York last night to welcome the newest member of their fraternity.
China's economic growth slows for a third straight quarter as efforts by the government to rein in booming expansion continue to take hold.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stock futures pointed to a flat market open on Friday, with higher oil prices and weakness in drug maker stocks offsetting better-than-expected earnings from entertainment company Walt Disney Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DIS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DIS.N&lt;/A&gt;.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks slid on Friday after oil hit a record $53.40 a barrel, while surprisingly weak September jobs data touched off a rally in the bond market.
Australia have all but assured they will remain inh the Davis Cup World Group after opening up a commanding 2-0 lead over injury-hit Morocco on Friday.
With the economy slowly turning up, upgrading hardware has been on businesses radar in the past 12 months as their number two priority.
INDIA #39;S cricket chiefs began a frenetic search today for a broadcaster to show next month #39;s home series against world champion Australia after cancelling a controversial $US308 million ( $440 million) television deal.
Burma's ruling junta says it is releasing 5,070 prisoners who were arrested "inappropriately".
NEW Zealand captain Stephen Fleming could be excused for wishing he was held up at customs a little longer last night before arriving at the SCG.
BAGHDAD In the single deadliest ambush of the Iraq insurgency, guerrillas dressed as security officers executed 49 freshly trained Iraqi soldiers on Saturday evening on a remote road in eastern Iraq as the unarmed soldiers were going home on leave, Iraqi
No street signs. No crosswalks. No accidents. Surprise: Making driving seem more dangerous could make it safer. By Tom McNichol from Wired magazine.
Justin Strzelczyk , a former player for the Pittsburgh Steelers and the University of Maine, died yesterday in a fiery head-on collision with a tanker truck in Herkimer, N.Y., after he led state troopers on a 40-mile highway chase during morning rush hour. Strzelczyk, 36, was an offensive lineman with the Steelers for nearly a decade until the team released ...
Gaming on the move is one of the fastest-growing activities amongst the tech-savvy in India, says a report.
AP - Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards on Tuesday accused President Bush of failing the United States and the world in Iraq, citing unsecured nuclear weapons abroad and unprotected ports at home as further evidence of the president's "incompetence."
The sore rib cage muscle that caused Roy Oswalt to leave Friday #39;s game in the eighth inning won #39;t keep him from making his next start Wednesday night at San Francisco.
AP - Iran insisted Thursday it had a right to exempt some equipment from an agreement with the European Union committing it to freeze all parts of a program that can make nuclear weapons-grade uranium #151; a move that diplomats said threatened to scuttle the deal.
AP - Apparently even a Hall of Fame coach doesn't get a break from the officials. Washington Redskins coach Joe Gibbs on Tuesday reviewed the tape of the previous night's loss to the Dallas Cowboys and determined he was on the wrong side of "two awful calls."
Millions of television viewers moved to the edge of their seats. Twenty three of the 24 players waited on tenterhooks, unable to influence the outcome.
AFP - Prime Minister Tony Blair huddled with his cabinet after a reshuffle that reinforced his grip on the Labour Party, at least for the time being, ahead of an expected general election.
SunGard Data Systems Inc. (SDS.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Monday said it would spin off its data recovery business, sending its stock up 11 percent to a four-month high.
Thousands of Shiites marched in celebration of an accord reached to end fighting between U.S. forces and a rebel cleric's militia.
Functional MRI is helping researchers reveal how the human brain operates and the ways in which it affects emotion and reason. By Rowan Hooper.
PARIS (Reuters) - Alcatel has expanded its foothold in the key North American market with the acquisition of a mobile software provider and a conference technology business for $277 million.
Next time an e-card with a jolly message drops into your computer #39;s inbox, think before you click it open - it could be a virus which will implant itself in your machine and spread before you even realise it.
Reuters - U.S. stocks opened higher on Thursday, with oil prices slipping on signs of strong supplies and Wall Street encouraged that the Federal Reserve seemed unlikely to accelerate the pace of interest rate hikes.
Scientists find a way to grow hair follicles on furless mice using stem cells. Now, they hope to extend the research to humans. By Kristen Philipkoski.
Manchester United have announced they have reached an quot;outline agreement quot; for the transfer of Wayne Rooney from Everton.
Kim Rhode earned the United States a gold medal in double trap shooting yesterday, staking a unique claim as the first and last winner of the Olympic event.
The Irish government has given Kenneth Bigley - kidnapped in Iraq - an Irish passport in a bid to stress his non-British roots. It was issued following appeals from his family and his dual citizenship means
Rio Ferdinand has been hailed as a potential England captain with Sven-Goran Eriksson tipping the Manchester United defender to follow in the footsteps of Bobby Moore.
BAGHDAD, Iraq -- Bombings struck four coalition and Iraqi military convoys and a provincial government office yesterday, killing at least eight people, including an American soldier and an Estonian trooper in the Baghdad area.
p2pnet.net News:- European Union antitrust regulators will launch an investigation into whether or not the proposed Microsoft-Time Warner joint acquisition of a US DRM company will strengthen Microsoft #39;s quot;already leading position quot; in the DRM solutions
BEIJING, Aug.20(Xinhuanet) -- The world #39;s lightest flying micro-robot has been developed by Japan #39;s Seiko Epson Corporation.
The hunger strike by thousands of security prisoners (called quot;prisoners of war quot; by the Palestinians) could become a difficult, complex affair.
It might sound like a space-age case of sour grapes, but Rod and Randa Milliron say they #39;re glad they don #39;t have to think about the $10 million Ansari X Prize anymore.
WASHINGTON - Terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui lost a bid Wednesday to have the full 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals review two issues - witness access and the death penalty - that have delayed a trial...
AP - As Hurricane Charley bore down on Florida this month, the principal radar covering the landfall area went down due to mechanical failure #151; and wasn't restored until 14 hours before the storm smashed into the state, according to documents and officials.
Nissan Motor, the Japanese carmaker, has been forced to stop production at three of its four car assembly plants in Japan for five working days after running out
SAN FRANCISCO -- Intel Corp. expects its first-generation WiMax chips to spawn devices for wireless broadband end-users that cost less than $200 and won't require a visit by a service provider, a company executive said Tuesday.
On the eve of the Kobe Bryant sexual assault trial, a frustrated judge chastised prosecutors Thursday for waiting until the last minute to challenge DNA evidence the defense
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- It sure isn #39;t the Goldilocks Economy of yesteryear -- you know, not too hot, not too cold, but just right.
Once again, it appears the United States is the favorite -- at least on paper -- to win the 35th Ryder Cup matches, which unfold this weekend at Oakland Hills in suburban Detroit.
Viacom Inc. (VIAb.N: Quote, Profile, Research) has begun a share exchange offer to split off its Blockbuster Inc. (BBI.N: Quote, Profile, Research) unit and put the video rental chain
Reuters - Dwyane Wade continued his hot start to the 2004-05 campaign with a career-high 37 points, as the Miami Heat improved to 3-0 on the young season with a 118-106 win over the Washington Wizards.
Thanks to digital cameras, picture taking has been revitalized. At this year #39;s Photokina, the world #39;s largest photography trade fair, digital cameras dominate the picture.
AP - Nomar Garciaparra filed for free agency Friday, starting the bidding process for the All-Star shortstop.
A European Union judge's decision on whether to suspend sanctions against Microsoft Corp. could come as early as mid-November, sources familiar with the process said today.
The game came down to one play, no time remaining, and the Patriots already had won the contest. There was not a thing at stake . . . except the fact that if the Seahawks punched it into the end zone, they would cover. My thoughts turned immediately to the folks who had a quot;vested quot; interest in the game and ...
Reuters - US Airways Group Inc. probably will need more cost cuts or a boost in revenue to attract the #36;250 million in equity it says it needs to leave bankruptcy next year, the company said on Thursday.
The Associated Press By Alex Veiga
Rogue waves #151;eight or more stories or higher #151;are freaks of the ocean once thought to be tall tales told by sailors. But now scientists have satellite evidence that the massive upwellings are not only real but also fairly common.
AP - Lindsay Whalen matched her career-high with 21 points and the Connecticut Sun beat the Washington Mystics 80-70 Monday night to even the best-of-three WNBA Eastern Conference semifinal.
Germany said on Saturday that Italy #39;s opposition to its campaign for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council could mean Europe loses out.
Two Marines with ties to the Washington region were killed last week in Iraq, the Pentagon said.
No 2. US book retailer Borders Group Inc. (BGP.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Tuesday posted a quarterly loss versus a year-ago profit, hurt by sluggish store traffic and a slowdown in sales of bestsellers.
THE International Red Cross has condemned all sides in the Iraq conflict for failing to respect humanitarian laws. In Geneva, its operations director Pierre Kraehenbuehl stressed that international humanitarian
Colombo, Aug. 26 (PTI): Sri Lanka has released a seized Indian cargo ship after it found no evidence linking the vessel to the damage caused to the island #39;s main submarine cable, the Navy said today.
In moderation, it helps keep tissue slick and clear, study finds HealthDayNews -- Drinking any kind of alcohol in moderation can reduce damage to affected tissue after a heart attack, says a University of Missouri-Columbia study. A heart attack results in reduced blood flow to a number of areas of the body...
I read with interest the recent Boot Camp article on the new Service Pack (SP2) for Windows XP. I have a dial-up connection to the Internet so I imagine that it would be impossible to download such a large file.
Shipping giant P amp;O said Tuesday it was scrapping four of its 13 routes across the English Channel, with the loss of about 1,200 jobs.
AP - Right now, life is a blur for new South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier.
The Red Sox and the Indians were tied, 8-8, in the fifth and deciding game of the 1999 Division Series when Pedro Martinez was summoned from the bullpen.
THE Milanese giants flexed their considerable muscles last night, both gaining impressive victories in the Champions League. AC Milan won the glamour clash with Barcelona thanks to Andrei Shevchenkos 31st
Jerusalem, Sept. 24 (PTI): An Israeli woman was killed and another slightly injured today when Palestinian militants fired four mortar shells at the Neveh Dekalim settlement in southern Gaza Strip, army sources said.
Already reeling from the Vioxx recall, Merck said late yesterday it faces a criminal investigation by the Department of Justice and an informal inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Computer Associates shareholders have defeated a stockholder proposal calling for current and former executives to return bonuses based on restated results, the company said.
USATODAY.com - Business software giant Oracle announced Monday that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire rival PeopleSoft after sweetening its offer by 10 to approximately #36;10.3 billion.
GREEN BAY, WIS. - Lovie Smith did not take long to fulfill his No. 1 goal of beating Green Bay. But the man who helped him do it wasn #39;t around afterward to celebrate.
washingtonpost.com - Google's Wednesday initial public offering, despite its failure to price as high or sell as many shares as the company had hoped, still made a host of existing stockholders instant millionaires and billionaires.
Postmidnight buyers -- who include insomniacs, night owls and people who like to work late -- seem to be taking advantage of high-speed Internet access in the home.
AP - Verizon Wireless plans next week to expand its high-speed mobile data service to 11 more markets, including New York and Los Angeles, as well as 19 more airports.
Standards body the Web Services Interoperability Organization, or WS-I, on Tuesday published updated standards compliance guidelines for applications that use file attachments.
Back in the go-go days of the tech boom, there was a lot of talk about fast Internet connections enabling consumers to do all manner of useful and fun things, from online banking to viewing movies online. Well, guess what? Despite the following tech bust, ...
SINGAPORE (Dow Jones)--Singapore #39;s High Court Friday threw a six-week lifeline to troubled China Aviation Oil Singapore Corp. (C47.
AP - LenDale White got together with some old friends Saturday night. He had a much better time than they did, gaining 123 yards on 14 carries and scoring a career-high three touchdowns to lead No. 1 Southern California to an overpowering 49-0 victory over Colorado State.
Stocks shuffled to a mixed finish yesterday, rebounding from mid-day declines as oil prices retreated after surging past $50 per barrel.
In the latest of his exclusive columns for Crash.net, renowned Eurosport MotoGP commentator Toby Moody provides the latest behind the scenes news from Sepang, analyses the Valentino Rossi/Sete Gibernau championship battle and ponders just how committed
Four men who attempted to use what they believed was a loophole in Spanish law to allow them to sell MP3s online legally, along with the company behind the site they ran, have agreed to pay music labels $10.
CNET News.com's Michael Kanellos says start-ups and their innovative ideas are the lifeblood of Silicon Valley.
AP - Joseph Jefferson's right knee might never be completely healthy. He can't worry about it now.
Update to Apple's music player lets you carry around your computer's entire photo library as well as your music collection. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-Rob Pegoraro&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
NEW DELHI, AUGUST 30: India has formally offered Bangladesh help in investigating the assassination attempt on former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina some 10 days ago, in which 20 people, including grassroots leaders of her Awami League party, and nearly 200
AP - An audiotape purportedly by key terror suspect Abu Musab al-Zarqawi boasts in an apparently recent recording that Islamic holy warriors have humiliated the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq.
Reuters - EU foreign ministers agreed to lift an arms embargo on Libya on Monday, despite fears for Bulgarian and Palestinian medical workers sentenced to death there, but imposed a visa ban on senior officials from Myanmar.
The Houston Astros refuse to live in the past, especially with their immediate future looking so bright. Roy Oswalt, the National League #39;s only 20-game winner, will try to give Houston a commanding lead in
LOS ANGELES -- The future of hypersonic flight is uncertain, but next week a tiny unmanned NASA jet will try to hurtle into that unknown on a one-way trip at 10 times the speed of sound.
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi says he is determined to keep up Italy #39;s efforts in Iraq despite the execution of an Italian hostage.
He stood in the corner of a quiet locker room after last night #39;s 96-88 loss to the Memphis Grizzlies at the FedEx Forum and inquired whether Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto had played.
BERLIN Sept. 19, 2004 - Voters in two east German states angry over high unemployment handed a rebuke Sunday to Germany #39;s two biggest parties, giving big gains to far right and former Communist groups, television projections showed.
Can two wins reverse a slide? Arsenal have scored eight times in winning their past two games, but those goals could be as confetti on the breeze if they slip up against Chelsea at Highbury on Saturday.
BANDA ACEH, Indonesia (Reuters) - A week after being swamped by a massive tsunami, water is only just beginning to drain off parts of Aceh's provincial capital, revealing the full extent of the horrific destruction, and yet more bodies to count.
Tired of unsolicited commercial mail that clogs your inbox virtually every second day? Well, you can take heart from the news that Microsoft head Bill Gates too suffers from the spam plague.
The explosion followed a blast late on Thursday that killed two people and wounded about 20 in a border town in Narathiwat province.
AFP - The resignation of disgraced Fiji Vice-President Ratu Jope Seniloli failed to quell anger among opposition leaders and the military over his surprise release from prison after serving just three months of a four-year jail term for his role in a failed 2000 coup.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury prices turned abruptly lower on Friday after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, in a highly unusual move, said those unprepared for higher interest rates stood to lose money.
Malaysia #39;s top court has agreed to review the corruption conviction of Anwar Ibrahim, the country #39;s former deputy prime minister.
Canadian Press - VANCOUVER (CP) - The Air India bombing trial concluded Friday, leaving only a judge to decide the verdict of two men accused of plotting Canada's worst mass murder and one of the world's worst acts of terrorism.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks gained on Monday, getting a boost from lower oil prices after news the Venezuelan president survived a recall eased fears about the country's oil exports.
Google has launched a beta test of a new service that allows mobile users to access its database from their handsets using short message service.
England #39;s tour to Zimbabwe next month looks certain to go ahead after an inquiry found no evidence of racism within the Zimbabwe Cricket Union.
Companies are expected to formally announce on Tuesday that they plan to create a new firm called Cybertrust.
Big-time college athletic departments who assert that their teams #39; success leads to increased alumni donations and a better applicant pool have created an quot;arms
AFP - Chelsea recovered from the shock of going a goal down after only 12 seconds to beat Southampton 2-1 and extend their winning start to the season to four matches.
Arizona trails Seattle and St. Louis in the NFC West despite having a losing record at 4-5. Cardinals #39; Emmitt Smith is hugged by teammate Troy Hambrick after Smith scored a touchdown.
Microsoft Purchases GIANT Anti-Spyware Here's an interesting story. Microsoft, who's Internet Explorer browser is full of holes which make it able to accept browser programs and add-ons which sometimes can be spyware, has now purchased an Anti-Spyware company. Something kind of stinks here. Why not fix Internet Explorer security holes ...
ALTHOUGH Microsoft #39;s anti-spam sender-ID is disliked by Open Sources, it is providing popular with the very people it is targeted against.
He #39;s a cool guy, a borderline lunatic, someone who can jam the hell out of a Strat. He #39;s got a temper that #39;s quicker than Michael Vick and spent some time last week talking football
Sony and blue-laser diode maker Nichia have developed a component that they say is vital to realizing support for Blu-ray Disc and DVD discs in portable devices, they announced this week.
Steve Wigley continues to face opposition to his role as Southampton head coach after the League Managers Association revealed their anger at a decision to let him stay on as Saints boss until the end of the season.
Peter Lonard won his second straight Australian Open title on Sunday with a come-from-behind 68 to win the championship by one stroke over Stuart Appleby.
With just days to go before the U.S. presidential election, the candidates are darting from one stop to the next #151;putting the pressure on the Secret Service in the process.
A leading pro-Taliban Sunni Muslim cleric together with an associate were shot dead in southern Pakistan yesterday, the latest attack in religious violence that has already killed more than 70 people this month.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Tuesday as shares of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;WMT.N&lt;/A&gt; extended their losses, oil prices held near $50 a barrel and the dollar hit a record low against the euro.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Treasury prices bounced higher on Wednesday after Fed Chief Alan Greenspan proved less enthusiastic about U.S. economic growth prospects than many investors had foreseen.
A FORMER mentor to Eliot Spitzer replaced Jeffrey Greenberg as chief executive of Marsh amp; McLennan last night, as the embattled insurance group made its first move towards settling a lawsuit with the New York Attorney-General.
They are like a big lobster pot on a piping hot stove, churning and bubbling, ready to boil over. The Red Sox have a 3-games-to-none lead over the Cardinals in the 2004 World Series, and all of their dreams -- and yours -- are about to come true. The local nine is bursting with optimism, yet the ...
BERLIN I never met Yasser Arafat, because I never wanted to meet him. Despite several invitations, I have always preferred to spend my time in places where people exchange ideas that go beyond ideology, where
Reuters - The European Central Bank is expected to keep interest rates steady at 2 percent on Thursday, with markets looking for any hint that the central bank's worries about growth have heightened.
MOSCOW - A top Kremlin official said Thursday that the Yukos affair was quot;just the beginning quot; of the state #39;s battle against tax offenders, but should not inhibit foreigners from investing in Russia.
Iran has not accepted a proposal of the European Union (EU) to trade nuclear technology with its uranium enrichment program. quot;It is just at the initial stage.
Red Hat on Thursday announced the opening of its first office in China, in the nation #39;s capital, Beijing. The company said it will be working with industry partners such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Intel and
Reuters - Japanese automakers produce the cleanest-burning vehicles and they were led in the 2003 model year by Honda Motor Co., while General Motors Corp. placed dead last, a U.S. environmental group said on Tuesday.
Vijay Singh ended the five-year run of Tiger Woods as the world #39;s No. 1-ranked golfer, beating Woods and Adam Scott by three shots at the Deutsche Bank Championship.
AdWeek.com - Internet ad revenue rose nearly 40 percent to #36;4.6 billion in the first half of 2004 compared to the year-ago period, according to a report released last week. In the second quarter, online ad revenue was #36;2.37 billion, up almost 43 percent from #36;1.66 billion during the same period last year and up 6 percent from #36;2.23 billion in the first quarter. The figures are from the Internet Revenue Report, sponsored by the Interactive Advertising Bureau and conducted independently by the New Media Group of PricewaterhouseCoopers. ...
The European Commission welcomed Monday proposals by Coca Cola to resolve a competition dispute focussed on deals between the drinks giant and retailers to ensure high-profile display.
BOSTON The United States #39; top telecommunications regulator plans to protect fledgling Internet telephone services from being taxed and heavily regulated by the 50 state governments.
SEOUL : South Korea #39;s LG Electronics will take action in a Japanese court to nullify patents on display panel technology held by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.
Miamis Frank Gore (3) runs past Georgia Techs Dawan Landry (20) during Saturdays game at Georgia Tech. Gore rushed for 127 yards on 25 carries.
And so to the terrifyingly dull event that was Matchday 6 in Group C. The only issue to be resolved here was whether it would be Ajax or Maccabi Tel Aviv who would secure the UEFA Cup spot.
KIEV, Ukraine (Reuters) - Outgoing Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma, bowing to mass street protests and international pressure, on Monday backed a new presidential election to end a crisis that is tearing the nation apart.
The company gets a boost from its Lightspan acquisition, but will future growth be slow?
The company that makes a popular battery operated vacuum cleaner has announced a voluntary recall of the product. Procter and Gamble says their Sweep-Vac by Swiffer could overheat and possibly catch fire.
&lt;p&gt;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt; By Alan Baldwin&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt; LONDON (Reuters) - Olivier Panis, the oldest driver andonly Frenchman on the Formula One starting grid, says farewellto grand prix racing in Japan this weekend.&lt;/p&gt;
They #39;re squat and snub-nosed, slow but steadfast. The Fiat 500 - the tiny Italian car with the big personality - last rolled off assembly lines nearly 30 years ago, and today it is still fighting retirement.
AFP - Finance ministers and central bank chiefs from the world's 20 most powerful nations were gathering for a weekend G20 summit in which exchange rates are expected to figure prominently.
LOS ANGELES, SEPT 14: A consortium led by Sony Corp has agreed in principle to acquire Hollywood studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc for nearly $3 billion.
Try to forget the basketball brawl and this year's other disturbing moments in sports. It's time to say thanks to some of the people who have made sports a better place.
Iraq #39;s US-backed government said on Tuesday that quot;major neglect quot; by its American-led allies led to a massacre of 49 army recruits at the weekend.
Its not really much of a surprise at this point, but at least we can now openly talk about the T5 and its specs. The palmOne Tungsten T5 features a Tungsten E-esque design, a brilliant 320x480 display, 256MB RAM, Bluetooth and several software updates.
Australia have won their first Test series in India since 1969-70 after a crushing 342-run win in the third Test in Nagpur. The win gives them an unassailable 2-0 series lead and means that the one blot on their copybook has been erased.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar held more than a cent above this week's record low on the euro on Thursday and traded near a two-week high on the yen, with the market wary of protest comments out of Europe about the euro's recent rise.
The future of Alitalia is at stake as the Italian flagship carrier meets with unions Monday to reveal the number of planned job cuts as part of a restructuring plan aimed at averting collapse.
has passed a bill obliging the government to go on trying to develop a civilian nuclear energy programme. uranium enrichment or end snap UN inspections of atomic facilities as some lawmakers had called for.
