After ending a career-worst five-game losing skid last week, the right-hander held the Kansas City Royals to three hits in eight innings Tuesday night, pitching the New York Yankees to a 4-0 victory.
South Korea's markets watchdog says it is to inspect Citigroup's local operation, days after regulators censured the bank's Japanese business.
Reuters - The genetic building blocks that form the basis for life may also be used to build the tiny machines of nanotechnology, U.S. researchers said on Thursday.
Sharman Networks Ltd., distributor of the Kazaa file-sharing software, on Monday launched its latest version which enables users to make free online calls anywhere in the world.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were little changed in early trade on Tuesday, as a report of a possible $24 billion takeover of cardiovascular device maker Guidant Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GDT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GDT.N&lt;/A&gt; by Johnson Johnson &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JNJ.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JNJ.N&lt;/A&gt; and easing oil prices provided support.
A design flaw in the reentry system of NASA #39;s Genesis space probe has been pinned as the most likely cause behind the spacecraft #39;s wild plunge into the Utah desert last month, investigators said Thursday.
In its pursuit of one-stop storage shop superstardom, Storage Technology Corp. (StorageTek) has bought Storability Software Inc. and got hold of its enterprise storage resource manager product.
MIAMI (Ticker) - Miami Dolphins fullback Rob Konrad underwent surgery to remove a bursal infection in his right thigh, the team announced on Tuesday.
Cell phone chip maker Qualcomm said on Tuesday it has purchased United Kingdom-based wireless developer Trigenix, in part to bolster Qualcomm #39;s stake in the European cell phone market.
Halo 2, the sequel to Microsoft #39;s best-selling game for its Xbox video console, has leaked onto the internet nearly four weeks before its planned sale.
Chile is using a Pacific Rim summit to showcase itself as a Latin American model for free trade, democracy and modernity. But grinding poverty just outside the convention
Internet retail giant Amazon.com Inc. said Thursday that it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Joyo.com Ltd., China #39;s largest online retailer of books, music and videos, in a deal worth about $75 million.
A Trojan which uses infected PCs to send spam messages to mobile phone users has been discovered.
AP - Utah opens the season with a chance to show it belongs in the Top 25. With a No. 20 ranking in their first ever preseason poll appearance, the Utes play host to Texas A amp;M on Thursday. A win solidifies their status as an emerging program; a loss relegates them to just another mediocre team from the West.
Houston at St. Louis (8:10 pm EDT). Roger Clemens (16-4) starts for Houston against Jeff Suppan (15-6) and the major league-leading Cardinals.
Technology giant IBM will announce today that it has built the world #39;s most powerful supercomputer, surpassing the performance of a machine in Yokohama, Japan.
ST. PAUL - The Salvation Army of Minnesota and North Dakota is preparing for a fight to reach its fundraising goals this holiday season after Target Stores announced this fall that it won #39;t allow bellringers outside its doors.
When the cute pink sheets were finally handed out and the opening round pairings for the 35th Ryder Cup Matches were released Thursday afternoon, the first two
Shares of the leading video game software publishers traded higher Friday despite mixed November sales. US sales of console games -- those made for Sony #39;s (SNE:NYSE - news - research) PlayStation 2, Microsoft #39;s
Earth's magnetic field has flipped many times over the last billion years. But only recently have scientists developed computer models to reveal how these reversals occur.
quot;If you got to play in Comiskey or if we got to play in Alaska, it doesn #39;t matter, quot; starting pitcher Josh Beckett said.
Sun backs an EU standards push for interoperability between office software. Microsoft says it's already there.
The stats were ugly: One offensive touchdown, 1-for-11 on third down, three sacks, fewer than 150 yards passing, and no consistency.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has escalated its investigation of Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. to a formal inquiry, the company said yesterday.
PalmOne plans to offer a free 128MB expansion card to Treo 650 owners because a new file system used for the handheld actually offers less memory for data storage than was available on the older Treo 600.
Rangers rallied to beat crosstown rival Celtic for the first time in seven matches Wednesday, with Shota Arveladze scoring in extra time for a 2-1 win in the Scottish League Cup quarter-finals.
DAIRY company National Foods expects continuing growth after today reporting a 14 per cent rise in net profit to $68.66 million for 2003/04.
The gloom over the threatened British grand prix started to lift yesterday when Sir Jackie Stewart confirmed that the minister for sport, Richard Caborn, is working with local authorities on ways of closing the gap between the fee demanded by Bernie
Ziff Davis - Motive has introduced three application management and configuration products designed to automate and speed up the process of fixing software performance glitches.
Conexant Systems Inc. shares slid in after-hours trade Thursday after the chip maker reported a fourth-quarter loss, following others in the industry to report customer demand below expectations.
LONDON (Reuters) - Boosted by a first strokeplay title in more than a year, Tiger Woods is champing at the bit to mount a fresh major challenge in 2005.
With Hurricane Frances approaching the eastern coast of Florida, Miami players requested that their preseason game in New Orleans be canceled.
The heads of auto giants Fiat SpA and General Motors Corp. meet in Switzerland on Tuesday to discuss the possible sale of Fiat #39;s auto business.
Two veteran astronauts are enjoying their last week on Earth before rocketing into space for a six-month stay aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Sony Corp. (6758.T: Quote, Profile, Research) and Samsung Electronics (005930.KS: Quote, Profile, Research) said on Tuesday they had agreed to share patents on basic technology to speed up
There #39;s going to be a ring ceremony in an NBA city tonight, and by now you probably know it #39;s not going to be in Los Angeles.
washingtonpost.com - RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C., Dec. 8 -- During an IBM employee meeting here Wednesday, a worker got up and asked a question that perhaps only 10 years ago would have been unthinkable: If he wanted to keep his job helping to design some of the world's most advanced computers, would he have to move to China?
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Lamar Odom supplemented 20 points with 13 rebounds and Kobe Bryant added 19 points to overcome a big night from Yao Ming as the Los Angeles Lakers ground out an 84-79 win over the Rockets in Houston Saturday.
Under threat of hostile takeover, PeopleSoft offers freebies to customers that migrate to latest software release
NEW YORK It was getting late, and the pregame rock song quot;Let #39;s Get It Started quot; still applied to the New York Yankees.
However, the decline is not as bad as analysts had expected, and the company raises its profit outlook. By Todd Zaun. TOKYO -- The Honda Motor Co.
Manchester United would be as strong as their 1999 European Cup-winning side if they captured England teenager Wayne Rooney, manager Alex Ferguson said.
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger introduced an environmentally friendly Hummer on Friday -ut not exactly the hydrogen-powered car he promised voters he would build when he campaigned for office.
Mortgage rates around the country crept up this week, although 30-year mortgages still were below the 6 percent level for a fourth straight week, Freddie Mac reported Thursday.
Striker Ivan Klasnic scored twice as Werder Bremen came from behind to beat Anderlecht 2-1 away in their Champions League Group G match on Wednesday.
Supporters say the new technology, which uses electric power lines, could become a major alternative to cable modem and phone connections if FCC approval helps it attract participation of major utility companies.
HAVEN, Wis. -- Perched high on the bluffs overlooking Lake Michigan, Whistling Straits is a massive, windswept landscape, as large a golf course as $40 million can buy. It is complete with sand dunes that could double as ski slopes and deep bunkers that should require elevators.
AP - Jamar Williams intercepted two passes and Jordan Hill recovered two fumbles in 22nd-ranked Arizona State's 27-14 victory over mistake-prone Oregon State on Saturday night, the Pac-10 opener for both teams.
STOCKHOLM, Sweden Aug. 24, 2004 - NASA has agreed to launch its largest scientific balloons from a site in northern Sweden, a spokesman said Tuesday.
Reuters - The North Atlantic right whale, western wolverine and the dromedary jumping-slug on Canada's Pacific coast will soon share a dubious distinction.
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., whose founder is scheduled to begin serving a prison sentence Oct. 8, said it had agreed to work with the television producer Mark Burnett to create
Ohio State football coach Jim Tressel and the school #39;s athletics director, Andy Geiger, defended the besieged program Tuesday -eiger delivering a vigorous
The Florida Marlins are trying to make their move in the NL wild-card race. Damion Easley, starting because of an injury to Luis Castillo, hit a go-ahead two-run homer in the seventh inning
AP - Three-time All-Star catcher Jason Kendall was close to being traded from the Pittsburgh Pirates to the Oakland Athletics for a pair of pitchers, a baseball official told The Associated Press on Wednesday.
Defensive back Mike McKenzie of Green Bay was traded Monday to the New Orleans Saints. The Saints gave up a second-round pick in 2005 and third-string quarterback JT O #39;Sullivan for McKenzie and a future draft choice.
Reuters - Hurricane Ivan ripped off roofs and cut power across Barbados on Tuesday, lashing the island with fierce winds but sparing it a direct hit as it roared into the eastern Caribbean.
The state of Virginia and Fairfax County each pledged $600,000 to entice International Business Machines Corp. to bring 1,250 high-paying new government contracting jobs to Fairfax.
Stocks rose on Thursday as investors bet on a year-end rally, while talk of a possible merger by telecommunications companies Sprint and Nextel and upbeat earnings from chip maker National Semiconductor Corp.
A Russian court has ruled that embattled oil firm Yukos must pay nearly all the fines and penalties connected to its 2001 tax bill.
Reuters - Major League Baseball Monday announced a decision on the appeal filed by Chicago Cubs pitcher Kerry Wood regarding a suspension stemming from an incident earlier this season.
Struggling Vitoria have sacked their third coach since the Brazilian championship started in late April and brought in 71-year-old Evaristo Macedo in an attempt to avoid relegation.
The battle for the Cape Ann League begins tomorrow. With four teams undefeated in league play and three boasting 6-0 overall records, the final four weeks of the season will pit prolific offense against immovable defense. The fight for supremacy begins as Wilmington (6-0) travels to Pentucket at 2 p.m.
He stood in the corner of a quiet locker room after last night #39;s 96-88 loss to the Memphis Grizzlies at the FedEx Forum and inquired whether Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto had played.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Sears, Roebuck Co &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=S.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;S.N&lt;/A&gt;, the largest U.S. department store chain, on Thursday posted an unexpected third-quarter loss and cut its full-year profit forecast, sending its shares tumbling more than 8 percent.
washingtonpost.com - The major Hollywood studios today said they are escalating their fight against online piracy by pursuing civil and criminal legal actions against the operators of computer servers that help transmit illegally copied movie files across the Internet.
Computer Associates on Monday unveiled storage-management software designed to help customers keep costs in line. The CA BrightStor r11.
The large US current account deficit is a matter of concern, and policy changes are needed to address existing global imbalances, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Rodrigo de Rato said.
SAN FRANCISCO - Is Apple Computer Inc. fine-tuning an enhanced iPod with roughly 50 percent more storage and a color screen to display photos?
The US economy grew faster in the second quarter than previously thought as business inventories rose at the strongest rate in four years, the government said on
Wal-Mart Enters the Online Music Store Mix Wal-Mart Stores Inc. launched an online music store that works with Microsoft Corp.'s Windows Media Player. Wal-Mart, which began offering music downloads in March, said that its new store will offer downloads at 88 cents per song and is somewhat of an affiliate of ...
NEW YORK - A lot of people say Michael Ovitz was overpaid at Walt Disney Company. These critics dwell on the superficial, noting, for instance, that he worked at the company just 14 months and was paid $140 million when he quit.
The Red Sox and the Indians were tied, 8-8, in the fifth and deciding game of the 1999 Division Series when Pedro Martinez was summoned from the bullpen.
Crude oil futures prices fell below $43 a barrel Friday, extending two days of sharp sell-offs as worries about low winter fuel inventories dissipate amid rising supplies.
Eden Prairie, MN (Sports Network) - Minnesota Vikings running back Michael Bennett is expected to miss at least two more games after undergoing arthroscopic surgery on his right knee Monday.
Federal Express raised its earnings forecast, citing strong demand for its international express, ground and less-than-truckload services.
Vijay Singh is making it look easy by winning tournament after tournament, and millions upon millions of dollars, while chasing Tiger Woods's record for earnings in a season.
AP - Maurice Williams hit a jumper with one second left to cap an 11-point performance and lead the Milwaukee Bucks over the Minnesota Timberwolves 76-75 Wednesday night in a preseason game.
The dollar is dipping again. After falling against major currencies such as the euro, yen, and Canadian dollar in 2002 and 2003, the greenback stabilized this year.
FOXBORO, Mass. Bill Belichick took a few minutes Monday to convey his congratulations to his offensive coordinator on becoming Notre Dame #39;s head coach.
Across the Americas, Native Americans are preparing for Tuesday's opening powwow in Washington, D.C. #151;the largest such gathering in recent times.
The first criminal trial involving former Enron Corp. executives quot;is a case about cheating and lying quot; with Wall Street #39;s help, a prosecutor said Tuesday.
TOKYO Mazda Motor, Japan #39;s fourth-largest carmaker, said Tuesday that it was entering the market for fuel-efficient gasoline-electric vehicles, sharing technology with Ford Motor to catch up with its larger rival, Toyota Motor.
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Shares of Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , the largest maker of chip-making tools, rose after the bell on Tuesday after the company said healthy spending on new semiconductor factories more than ...
Callaway Golf Co., which has struggled in recent months amid lackluster demand for its equipment, warned yesterday that its results for the third quarter and the year could be far below previous forecasts.
AP - In another change of plans, semiconductor giant Intel Corp. canceled a project Thursday to develop a chip for projection TVs and said it planned to focus its resources in other areas.
Hewlett-Packard Co. shares jumped as much as 9 percent in Europe after the computer maker said fourth- quarter profit beat its forecast and Chief Executive Carly Fiorina said she #39;s fixed
After her latest win, Finland #39;s Tanja Poutiainen just shrugged and raised her eyebrows with each question. Not even she could explain why she #39;s off to such a good start this season.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar hovered above a six-month low against the yen on Friday as the market considered the meaning of a rate rise in China and worried about the strength of the U.S. economy.
OAO Yukos Oil Co., Russia #39;s biggest oil exporter, will lower crude-oil deliveries to China National Petroleum Corp. this month and supply no oil in October because the Russian company
Ruud van Nistelrooy will miss Manchester United #39;s last Champions League Group D game away to Fenerbahce on Wednesday because of a calf injury, the Premier League club said.
NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) said it will build a new front-end production plant in Kulim High Tech Park, Malaysia.
So much for making a fresh start in the second half of the season. Instead of new beginnings, the Cowboys battled the same old problems, this time getting slapped around by the Philadelphia
Reports of the death of CDs have been greatly exaggerated, according to research published yesterday which said legally downloaded music would represent only a fraction of sales in five years #39; time.
AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - U.S. computer company Hewlett-Packard said on Wednesday it was expanding a built-to-order system for personal computers and other high volume computer products, similar to rival Dell.
NewsFactor - The EU is expected to approve the merger between rivals Oracle (Nasdaq: ORCL) and PeopleSoft (Nasdaq: PSFT), according to sources close to the proceedings.
THERE is a point on the New York City Marathon course, at about 15 miles, where the runners cross the Queensboro Bridge and catch a view of the Empire State Building over to their left.
NEW YORK - PalmSource #39;s planned acquisition of China MobileSoft signals its desire to expand its presence in Asian markets, as well as to produce a new, Linux-based version of its handheld operating system.
Three Americans shared the Nobel Prize for Physics for their work in increasing science's understanding of the forces that bind together the smallest pieces of matter, known as quarks.
The personal computer market in India will see a massive boom by 2010, according to a new report by Forrester Research. India, says the report, will add 80 million (8 crore) new PC users by 2010.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Amgen Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMGN.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMGN.O&lt;/A&gt;, the world's biggest biotechnology company, on Wednesday said quarterly net profit fell on acquisition charges, but adjusted earnings rose 21 percent on strong sales of its drugs for anemia and arthritis.
Heloise shipped along copies of her book, quot;A Year's Worth of Stain Removal Hints, quot; but that was not enough. The hintful heroine was summoned for personal assistance.
EBay Inc., the world #39;s largest online marketplace, on Wednesday posted a quarterly profit that rose 77 percent from a year ago, fueled by strong back-to-school shopping
VIENNA (Reuters) - OPEC on Wednesday lifted oil supply quotas by one million barrels a day, four percent, in a renewed bid to force down stubbornly high world crude prices.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Health insurance premiums rose five times faster than U.S. workers' salaries this year, according to a survey released on Thursday that also showed slippage in the percentage of American workers covered by employer health plans.
Hurricane Frances battered the Kennedy Space Center, a top NASA official said Tuesday, blowing gaping holes in the Vehicle Assembly Building and ripping open the
In traditionally weak quarter, sales increased 26 compared to last year.
AFP - The Swedish-Finnish telecommunications operator TeliaSonera said it had bought the remaining 10 percent stake in Lithuania's major mobile company Omnitel that it did not already own for 63.5 million dollars (51.4 million euros).
DEFENDING champions Porto sneaked through to the knockout phase of the Champions League with a dramatic 2-1 victory over Chelsea last night.
Cendant (CD:NYSE) sewed up a $1.25 billion acquisition of online travel giant Orbitz (ORBZ:Nasdaq), igniting another surge in shares of the airline-owned travel site.
Ken Caminiti, the popular and powerful former National League MVP whose troubled life after baseball included bouts with cocaine and a jail stay, died yesterday at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx.
I #39;m dating myself here, but I can vividly recall the web browser scene ten years ago, when I #39;d eagerly download every new version of Netscape Navigator the moment it was released.
The new portable video-game machine from Nintendo Co. is selling briskly in both the United States and Japan and the company is well on its way to reaching a target of selling 5 million units by April next year.
Kevin B. Rollins, the new chief executive of Dell, talks about Dell's transitory slip in customer service, and why he sees a broader technology recovery taking place.
Dell, EMC, Intel and Oracle have sealed an alliance to develop grid computing technology. The move is an effort to develop a standard approach to building and deploying enterprise grid computing infrastructures.
The replacement crew for the International Space Station has begun a two-day preflight exams, a part of final preparations to relieve the two-man Russian-American crew finishing a six-month mission.
While a jury will not decide Kobe Bryant #39;s future, a jury of a different sort - voters - will decide District Attorney Mark Hurlbert #39;s.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock futures were lower on Friday, indicating a weak market open, as climbing oil prices and a disappointing revenue outlook from software powerhouse Microsoft Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MSFT.O&lt;/A&gt; weighed on Wall Street.
The rand was looking to strengthen further on Monday, extending Friday #39;s gains against the greenback, which tumbled following the release of poor US economic data.
LONDON (Reuters) - Rundown land surrounding London's Wembley Stadium will be transformed into a glitzy $600 million gambling resort in a joint venture between U.S. group Caesars Entertainment and Britain's Quintain Estates.
Cisco Systems debuted the File Engine, a file-based data-sharing appliance that offers companies the ability to consolidate management of distributed file and print services within branch offices.
Alex Ferguson sounded a warning note to Chelsea after they maintained their five-point gap at the top of the Barclays Premiership with a 4-0 thrashing of Newcastle.
Here #39;s something to ponder when you eat your next chicken wing: A new study says about 60 of the genes in the critter you #39;re eating have close cousins in your own DNA.
Low-cost airline said it will bid at least $100 million for assets of bankrupt ATA Airlines. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Southwest Airlines said Friday it will bid at least $100 million for certain assets of bankrupt
AP - An unprecedented amount of data from a major Central California earthquake is generating new insight into how and where quakes strike, but hasn't improved scientists' ability to predict them.
. I understand that Microsoft #39;s Service Pack 2 for Windows XP, a new update, includes improved firewall protection. I currently use Norton Personal Firewall; will any incompatibility result when both firewalls are installed, and is one ...
Hostilities started in late July, when Real cracked Apple #39;s FairPlay code, meaning songs bought from the RealPlayer Music Store could be played on the iPod - a move that went down very badly over at Apple. Real then decided to ratchet up the pressure by ...
AP - Notre Dame is out to protect its turf against Boston College on Saturday.
Nippon Steel, Japans leading steelmaker, has agreed to pay a record price of more than $120 per tonne for coking coal from next spring to Australias BHP Billiton Mitsubishi
AP - The Georgia Bulldogs will celebrate homecoming on Saturday. Actually, it's more like a going-away party. After the No. 12 Bulldogs host lowly Vanderbilt, there will no more Southeastern Conference games at Sanford Stadium this season. And it's only mid-October.
Lindsay Davenport and Amelie Mauresmo are in a battle for the No. 1 ranking at the WTA Championships this week at the Staples Center, however, both players downplay the faceoff.
Boston College's 21-10 victory over Rutgers yesterday was the Eagles' sixth win, making them eligible for a bowl bid. It may even have put them in prime position for a New Year's Day game, even if they lose to West Virginia next week in Morgantown.
HP BOSS Ann Livermore said that the move to Itanium was not responsible for HP #39;s sales slump. Livermore, who managed to avoid an axe wielding Carly Fiorina this week as sales in the bits of the company she manages plummeted, said that killing the Alpha ...
Financial stocks got a lift Tuesday as speculation about merger and acquisition activity was injected into the market after Citigroup Inc.
Seagate Technology offers a better than expected revenue and earnings forecast; the stock should still be avoided.
Sports India gt; New Delhi, Oct 11 : The Supreme Court today stayed the Madras High Court order appointing Justice (retd) S Mohan as the Interim Administrator of BCCI.
The Supreme Court let stand on Monday a ruling that the Visa and MasterCard credit card networks violated federal antitrust law by barring their member banks from issuing credit and charge cards on the rival networks of American
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks finished higher on Friday, as investor worry about high fuel costs crimping consumer spending and hurting company profits eased after crude oil prices fell from their peak.
AP - Forward Andrew Peters re-signed with the Buffalo Sabres on Tuesday.
TOKYO (Reuters) - IBM &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=IBM.N qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;IBM.N&lt;/A&gt;, Sony Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=6758.T qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;6758.T&lt;/A&gt; and Toshiba Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=6502.T qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;6502.T&lt;/A&gt; on Monday revealed their plans for the powerful new "Cell" processor the three are jointly producing to run next-generation computers, game consoles and televisions.
No USC coach ever defeated his archrivals three consecutive years, but Pete Carroll is two weeks from history. With a victory over Notre Dame tonight and UCLA next week, Carroll
Reuters - Dorsey Levens has found employment for the 2004 season after the veteran running back signed a one-year contract with the Philadelphia Eagles on Monday.
Reuters - Fingerprint sensors, gadgets to pry open doors and transmitters to spy on unsuspecting targets were among the wizardry on show at the opening of Italy's biggest technology fair on Thursday.
Santander Central Hispano #39;s Chairman Emilio Botin pledged a year ago to propel the Spanish bank into the world #39;s top 10 by market capitalisation, an ambition which could now be realised with a bid for Abbey National.
AP - Even with a big lead, Eric Gagne wanted to pitch in front of his hometown fans one last time.
Adrian Mutu has been accused of getting carried away with his fame and fortune by the president of the Romanian Football Association.
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. (Ticker) -- Third seed Mario Ancic was the only seeded player remaining in the bottom half of the draw at the Millennium International.
The decision by Colorado prosecutors Wednesday to drop the rape case against NBA star Kobe Bryant ends a massive legal and social debacle in a way that leaves no one looking good.
NewsFactor - Linux software company Red Hat (Nasdaq: RHAT) has entered a partnership with Unisys (NYSE: UIS), maker of high-end servers. The alliance will allow Unisys to offer a more tightly integrated server package comprising hardware, software and the services to support it.
LONDON : It #39;s crunch time for Europe #39;s mobile telephone giants. After spending billions of euros on third-generation licences, they now hope to persuade millions of customers to make the switch to the new
Inspiration is an unruly beast. One day in late 2002, advertising copywriter Jason Hoff and his writing partner Jeff Candido were noodling with some concepts for a new tourism-promotion campaign for their client, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. There was, decidedly, not much inspiration.
St. Louis Cardinals #39; right-hander Julian Tavarez was fined $10,000 by Major League Baseball for throwing over the head of Astros #39; batter Jeff Bagwell in the seventh inning of Game 4 of the NLCS, the pitcher told ESPN on Tuesday night.
AFP - India's third-largest software exporter, Wipro, said that second quarter net profit jumped 79 percent as sales rose 44 percent, beating both the market's and the company's expectations.
Reuters - Business software maker Oracle Corp. on Friday said it had decided to move forward the release date of its fiscal second-quarter earnings to Monday, Dec. 13 before markets open instead of Thursday, Dec. 16.
Arsenal striker Thierry Henry says reaching their milestone on Sunday will mean nothing if they don #39;t win anything. The5-3 win over Middlesbrough equalled Nottingham Forest #39;s 42-game unbeaten League run, set 25 years ago.
Sniffer rescue dogs trained to find explosives or earthquake survivors buried in rubble may soon have some competition -- rats. The rodents can crawl into the tiniest spaces and have a strong sense of smell.
The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has turned down Microsoft #39;s technical contribution to the Sender ID proposal. A combination of Microsoft #39;s Caller ID and a domain authentication scheme devised by
roundup Plus: IDC says external disk storage up...Lawmakers to vote on spyware, piracy bills...Microsoft tests Windows Marketplace...Nortel delays financials again.
Shipments of Apple Computer's Xserve soared in the third quarter of 2004 by 119 over the same period last year, according to market research firm Gartner Dataquest.
Working Mother magazine has named three Cincinnati-based companies among its 100 best to work for in 2004. Health care provider TriHealth made the list for the first time, joining Procter
SAO PAULO, Brazil - Brazilian newcomer Maria Rita, one of the big winners at this year #39;s Latin Grammy show, treats her family #39;s rich musical legacy as a personal gold watch, a treasure to be guarded but not used as an up-to-date timepiece.
Oil companies are estimating an under-recovery of over Rs 10,000 crore during the current financial year, with the government deciding against allowing oil companies to increase petrol and diesel prices for the fortnight beginning November 1.
Mobile phone giants Vodafone and Nokia teamed up on Thursday to simplify software for cell phones written with the Java computer language that promises to bring cheaper, smarter handsets.
But this time in Athens, they have to accept the bitter fact that South Korean Ryu Seung Min was a better player in the pulsating men #39;s singles final against Chinese Wang Hao.
MADRID : Marat Safin sent over 14 aces and devastated David Nalbandian with six breaks of serve Sunday to win his second career trophy in Spain with a title at the 2.425-million-euro Madrid Masters.
The computing giant is stepping up its wireless efforts through partnerships, looking to sell to municipalities, hospitals and colleges.
DETROIT: General Motors Corp posted on Thursday disappointing quarterly earnings and cut its 2004 profit forecast due to mounting losses in Europe and slowing growth in China, sending its shares down 5.
Unionized Northern California grocery workers union set a Sunday deadline for contract talks and said they would hold a strike vote next week if necessary.
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Food and Drug Administration will examine clinical trial data for thousands of depressed adults to see if they, like children, suffered increased suicidal thoughts and behaviors while taking antidepressants. Dr...
(Hartford-WTNH, Oct. 28, 2004 12:15 PM ) _ Connecticut Red Sox fans are already grabbing up those World Series shirts and hats. People are swarming local stores to get a piece of memorabilia.
Bode Miller of the United States clinched his first World Cup downhill title in six years in Lake Louise, Alberta of Canada on Saturday.
Sutherland, South Africa - It #39;s a 60-mile drive off the main highway in South Africa #39;s Northern Cape to this 19th century wool-producing town, but the desert landscape is so desolate it can feel as if the distance is 6,000 miles. The narrow ...
A year ago, the Bentley Falcons ended C.W. Post's two-year reign as Northeast-10 Conference football champions. Now the Pioneers have a chance to return the favor. Sitting atop the conference standings, C.W. Post (4-1, 4-0) hosts Bentley tomorrow and can inflict serious damage on any hopes the Falcons have of repeating.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Car buyers, tired of designs that roll off the assembly line, are shifting gears to decades past.
AP - Aramis Ramirez hit a three-run homer, Moises Alou also homered and the Chicago Cubs beat the Houston Astros 11-6 on Sunday in the testy conclusion of a three-game series between the NL Central rivals.
State titles were common for the Walpole field hockey teams of the 1990s, and now that prize has returned to Common Street.
Real Madrid coach Jose Antonio Camacho offered his resignation to club president Florentino Perez on Sunday, Spanish state radio reported.
Opening night is on the horizon, but Allan Houston is still more curiosity than fixture in any discussion of the Knicks #39; rotation, and the remodeled lineup appears ready to take its first steps without him.
AP - Two Americans won the Nobel Prize in medicine Monday for discovering how people can recognize an estimated 10,000 odors, from spoiled meat to a lover's perfume.
It #39;s an unlikely marriage of the sacred and the profane: a decade-old grilled cheese sandwich bearing the purported image of the Virgin Mary, sold to a gambling house that wants to tour the petrified snack around the country for charity.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif. (Dow Jones/AP) -- Oracle Corp. extended its hostile bid for PeopleSoft Inc. for the 12th time, pushing the tender offer through Oct. 8. In a press release Thursday, Oracle said about
The US Consumer Product Safety Commission, in cooperation with Lexmark, today recalled nearly 40,000 laser printers. According to a company statement, these printers can short-circuit, posing an electrical shock hazard to consumers.
Peyton Manning threw six touchdown passes, setting a National Football League record with his fifth straight game with at least four TD tosses, as the Indianapolis Colts hammered the Detroit Lions 41-9 in US Thanksgiving Day play in
Steve Finley's grand slam caps a seven-run rally in the bottom of the ninth inning as Los Angeles wins the NL West, beating the San Francisco Giants, 7-3.
com. Yahoo is hosting the official Web site for the second and third seasons of the reality television program quot;The Apprentice.
Microsoft Corp.'s decision to release a major upgrade for its flagship operating system in the same month that hundreds of thousands of students are reporting to college campuses across the nation is causing a major headache for the higher education community.
Atlas Copco Group has agreed to sell its electric tools business, including Brookfield-based Milwaukee Electric Tool Corp., to Techtronic Industries Co.
The Exelon Corporation, the owner of utilities in northern Illinois and eastern Pennsylvania, is in talks to acquire P.S.E. G.
The 35th running of today #39;s New York City Marathon will test Meb Keflezighi, Paula Radcliffe, Deena Kastor and several other 2004 Olympians.
House price growth remained subdued in September, offering further proof of a slowdown in the property market, figures showed today.
When Peyton Manning breaks the single- season NFL record for passing touchdowns, an event that will likely occur this Sunday, I won #39;t go nuts celebrating the man.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has revealed he expects to sign a new contract quot;within the next few days quot;. Wenger #39;s current Highbury contract expires at the end of this season but his new deal is set to keep him at the club until at least 2008.
New Delhi, Sep 7. (UNI): After losing out in the high-stake telecasting rights battle on Sunday, ESPN STAR Sports on Monday said it had challenged in the Bombay High Court the decision of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to award
Crude oil futures rose in New York, after falling from a record on Friday, as fighting in Iraq #39;s holy city of Najaf damped expectations the country would restore oil exports to full capacity.
Jones had 198 yards rushing and three touchdowns, helping Dallas erase a 10-point deficit with less than three minutes to play as the visiting Cowboys stunned the Seattle Seahawks, 43-39, last night.
One day after it appeared the New York Jets would get Sam Cowart back into the lineup for Sunday #39;s game at Buffalo, the outlook became less optimistic.
Beleaguered pharmaceutical giant Merck amp; Co. Inc. has appointed a special committee of board members and a retired federal judge to review the company #39;s actions before it
LOS ANGELES: Teenager Maria Sharapova capped her stunning tennis year by overcoming an injured Serena Williams 4-6 6-2 6-4 in the final of the season-ending WTA Tour Championships yesterday.
Forbes.com - I am a shareholder in many small companies who has benefited tremendously from the class action process, notwithstanding abuses of the system described in "Dirty Money" (Sept. 20, p. 150). Despite Sarbanes-Oxley, managers of small companies continue to commit securities fraud, sell company assets to themselves below market prices, issue themselves below-market options and take companies private at ridiculous valuations. The class action process allows small shareholders to fight for their rights, aggregate their claims and be heard. New York, N.Y.
SAS unveiled on Monday a forecasting tool, SAS High-Performance Forecasting, targeted at industries that do large volumes of forecasts.
Seventeen De Havilland Dash-8 Q300 turbo-prop aircraft will take over from the Saab 340A planes which currently form the backbone of the airline #39;s provincial network.
MCI announced on Wednesday a line of managed LAN services available at three different service levels.
Faget designed the original spacecraft for Project Mercury and played a role in the design of every US human spacecraft from Mercury to the space shuttle.
AP - Federal regulators approved new rules Thursday aimed at making high-speed Internet available to more Americans. Critics contended the action will hinder competition in broadband services and keep prices high.
The U.S. economy, struggling under the weight of a bloated trade deficit, grew at a relatively modest 2.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter, a slower pace of expansion than previously thought.
elix Trinidad Jr. #39;s scintillating career seemed to end two years ago with a fourth-round technical knockout of Hacine Cherifi.
Ecuador #39;s 1-0 win over Brazil has ended the world champions #39; unbeaten run in the region #39;s World Cup qualifying competition.
Nvidia today launched its first mobile PCI Express GPU. The GeForce Go 6800 will soon appear in desktop replacement notebooks and push mobile graphics to a new performance level.
The Hungarian hammer thrower who was stripped of his gold medal after refusing to take a follow-up drug test at the Athens Olympics said Tuesday that he vows to keep his medal.
U.S. blue chips were higher today, led by shares of major oil producers benefiting from higher crude oil prices, which broke through the $50 a barrel mark.
New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson traveled to California yesterday to urge the University of California regents to compete to continue managing the Los Alamos National Laboratory.
A Russian automatic base may be established on the Moon in 2020-2025, an official of the Russian Space Agency said. Speaking in Washington at a NASA conference on the International Space System program, Nikolai
The success of alternative Web browsers could push Microsoft to more aggressively leverage its dominance of Internet client software, said Marc Andreessen, one of the founders of Netscape.
Its new software lets PC administrators create policy controls specifying how long a user will have access to the operating system and applications, what peripherals can connect to the environment, and more.
A new computer game which recreates John F Kennedy #39;s assassination was branded despicable yesterday by late president #39;s family.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Goodyear Tire Rubber Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GT.N&lt;/A&gt;, the largest U.S. tiremaker, on Friday expects a third-quarter profit above most analysts' expectations, helped by higher tire prices and stronger sales volume, sending shares up 12 percent.
TEHRAN (Reuters) - Iran have given judo world champion Arash Miresmaeili a $125,000 reward, saying he sacrificed a gold medal at the Athens Olympics by refusing to fight an Israeli, a sports official said on Tuesday.
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said on Tuesday that better management of banking risk and new rules on capital hold the promise of a stronger banking system contributing more to economic growth.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Roger Federer was bundled out of the Olympic tennis tournament Tuesday by unheralded Czech Tomas Berdych.
Gerald Riggs ran 12 yards for a touchdown with 38 seconds remaining and No. 15 Tennessee defeated Kentucky, 37-31, Saturday.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing biotechnology companies as part of a wider effort to ensure that companies don #39;t mislead investors
AP - Justin Gatlin followed his Olympic victory by capturing the 100 meters Thursday at the Yokohama Super Track and Field meet while former world-record holder Maurice Greene finished fifth.
AP - A closely watched measure of future economic activity fell in July for the second consecutive month, reinforcing evidence that the nation's financial recovery is slackening.
International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge said here on Saturday that they accept thehuman error in judging or refereeing but never tolerate any manipulation.
Georgetown broke its four-year losing streak in season openers by defeating St. Francis (Pa.), 36-7, Saturday in a nonconference game before 1,671 at Harbin Field.
Top-ranked Boston College dominated the first two periods, but Providence came on in the third and emerged with a 2-2 tie at Schneider Arena last night.
MSN #39;s beta search tool has been out for a week and has already created a controversy with a search for quot;more evil than Satan quot; throwing up Google #39;s home page as its first match.
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -- Josh Tudela headed in a corner kick from Brian Plotkin in the 41st minute, lifting defending national champion Indiana to a 1-0 NCAA Division 1 soccer tournament win over Boston College yesterday.
Their decaying carcasses gave a super-size boost in nutrients to forest soil and stimulated seed and nitrogen production in a plant important to the forest ecosystem, researchers reported in Friday #39;s issue of the journal Science.
GLYFADA, Greece - When the first notes of the national anthem of Israel pierced the night air, years of yearning came pouring out of Israelis at the Olympic Sailing Centre.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices slipped further below $55 a barrel on Tuesday, breathing easier after a Norwegian strike threat receded but still anxious over the thin state of pre-winter heating oil supplies.
LONDON : Drinks giant Diageo said it had raised 2.26 billion dollars (1.84 billion euros) from the sale of 49.9 million shares in US food company General Mills Inc.
THE Commonwealth Bank is set to become the first Australian financial institution to enter mainland China #39;s commercial and retail banking sector.
Just as some analysts believe the market for blade servers is about to heat up, Dell (Quote, Chart) moved forward with its most significant modular server, unveiling the PowerEdge 1855 for powerful computing at a lower cost.
Reuters - Online auctioneer eBay Inc. will plug a recently purchased China site into its global network on Friday, creating new opportunities for a nascent but fast-growing operation, its chief executive said.
Detroit's Ben Wallace will not appeal the six-game suspension the NBA gave him for his involvement in Friday night's brawl with the Pacers.
NEW YORK - Alcoa (AA) shares plunged more than 5 in early Friday trading after the world #39;s largest aluminum producer warned that third-quarter results would fall far short of Wall Street expectations, hurt by plant shutdowns, restructuring costs and
Boston Scientific Corp. said Wednesday it expects overall third-quarter sales will miss analyst expectations as preliminary August sales of its Taxus heart device, which was involved in
Researchers have found a trio of flaws in Internet Explorer--making almost 20 in total.
It appears Duce Staley won #39;t get a chance to run against his old teammates after all. Staley, the third-leading rusher in the AFC with 707 yards, has a hamstring injury
BOSTON -- You expected to see Bill Murray and Larraine Newman disembarking from the St. Louis team bus as it rolled up to Fenway Park here late Friday afternoon.
While taking a back seat to software and security efforts, hardware is still a big time concern according to our survey. Organizations are taking the opportunity to consolidate their environments as they replace
Italy coach Marcello Lippi said yesterday that Inter Milan #39;s Marco Materazzi will replace Fabio Cannavaro in the centre of defence for the Azzurri #39;s crunch World Cup qualifier at home today to Belarus.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The story headlined "UPDATE 1-Levi Strauss Co says could face bankruptcy" is withdrawn. The story was based on language included in a filing the company made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Such language on risk factors is standard in most references to indebtedness in regulatory filings by companies.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Top seed Lleyton Hewitt was pushed to three sets by a Japanese player for the second day in a row at the $860,000 Japan Open Thursday.
NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - The confidence of US consumers worsened in November, a research firm said Tuesday, with the number falling below Wall Street #39;s expectations.
Ferrari #39;s record-breaking season may go down in the Formula One history books as the peak of Michael Schumacher #39;s career. Technical director Ross Brawn certainly
ShopKo Stores Inc. said Wednesday that sales at stores open at least one year, or same-store sales, fell 4.8 percent during the month of November.
Oil price easing helps Nikkei snap nine-session slide; Hang Seng advances in pre-holiday trade. TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo #39;s Nikkei average rose 0.4 percent Thursday, snapping a nine-day slide on a technical
Air France-KLM Group, Europe #39;s biggest airline, said second-quarter sales grew 6.4 percent as passengers generated more revenue.
NEW YORK, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Number-one seed Andre Agassi survived a surprisingly tough first set test before he eventually coasted to a 6-4 6-2 win over Paul Goldstein at the Washington Classic on Tuesday.
Horseplayers started the Breeders #39; Cup with a bang heard round the nation #39;s betting parlors when Ashado, the unwavering favorite, trounced a smart field to win the $1 million Distaff.
Public and private sectors are developing non-entertainment games whose "fun factor" ranks below their "serious factor." &lt;br&gt;&lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-The Washington Post&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
THE mother of Robinho, one of Brazil #39;s most exciting young soccer players, had been kidnapped, police said yesterday. Marina de Souza, 43, was abducted by two armed men who invaded a barbecue at Praia Grande
Dimmer switch on those holiday lights. The board of Delta Air Lines (nyse: DAL - news - people ) gave its OK to use an exception to the New York Stock Exchange #39;s investor approval policy.
Reuters - Undersea tourists and souvenir hunters are hastening the decay of the Titanic, says U.S. explorer Bob Ballard who discovered the world's most famous shipwreck nearly 20 years ago.
The fact that neither Kmart or Sears has faired well against Wal-Mart may leave some people wondering if the combined company can do any better.
Less than a week after celebrating a World Series title, Manny Ramirez is in Japan for more baseball -- and a little sushi. Ramirez, Boston Red Sox teammate David Ortiz and 26 other major league players arrived
Stocks rose modestly in uninspired trading Thursday as investors looked past a mix of economic data and falling profit forecasts from from Google Inc.
Pocket DJ 5 undercuts price of iPod Mini music player. Consumer push also includes plasma-screen TVs.
CBC SPORTS ONLINE - AC Milan striker Andriy Shevchenko was named the Ballon d #39;Or (Golden Ball) award winner on Monday as European soccer player of the year.
Russian prosecutors continued their onslaught against the country #39;s largest oil producer on Thursday, raiding the accounting division of Yukos and seizing documents.
Gold prices rose to 16-year highs on Tuesday, spurred on by buy #39; #39; signals in technical price charts and fears that inflation, seemingly under control, could rise again in the months ahead.
Drowned by the hoopla surrounding SP2 for Windows XP, Microsoft announced yesterday that both versions of Microsoft Operations Manager 2005 (MOM 2005) were released for manufacturing, the final step before they become officially available.
Share price of Telekom Malaysia Bhd rose more than 1.7 or 20 sen to RM11.80 on Dec 10 after winning the bid for Indonesia #39;s third-largest mobile phone operator PT Excelcomindo Pratama.
Edgardo Alfonzo's two-run double capped a six-run rally in the fourth inning, and the San Francisco Giants tied the Chicago Cubs for the wild-card lead by beating the Padres, 7-5, last night at San Diego.
Top seed and crowd favourite Marat Safin was knocked out of the St Petersburg Open quarter-finals on Friday, falling 6-4 6-1 to Michael Llodra.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices broke above $55 a barrel on Tuesday as concern lingered over thin world heating oil supplies ahead of the northern winter.
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMIC) said Wednesday it will defend itself against the latest allegations of patent infringement and trade secret misappropriation made by rival Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. Ltd. (TSMC).
Sydney - The head of James Hardie Industries has resigned with a payout of $6.5 million (R40.8 million) in the aftermath of a scandal over the building products group #39;s efforts to dodge its liabilities to asbestos victims.
Goaltender Kevin Weekes signed Thursday with the Rangers, who expect the unrestricted free agent to compete for the No. 1 job with Mike Dunham.
Savvis Communications, one of the world's largest ISPs, said it is terminating service to about 40 of its customers who have been using its networks for spamming purposes.
Atlanta Public Schools officials Friday admitted a few missteps but denied major failings in their spending of $60 million of federal technology subsidies.
HOLLYWOOD studios are locked in a battle over adopting a standard for high-definition Digital Video Disc technology, in an apparent replay of the 1980s struggle between VHS and Betamax video formats.
Heading into extra innings on Saturday, both the Phillies and Mets collected nine runs on 11 hits, a fitting tribute on what became an otherwise bizarre day at Shea Stadium.
Cablevision #39;s MSG Network and Fox Sports NY will lose big ad bucks and be forced to cut the prices they charge cable and satellite companies now that the Mets have walked away to start their own channel, media insiders said yesterday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Taser International Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TASR.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;TASR.O&lt;/A&gt; on Monday said it won U.S. government approval to use its stun guns on some commercial airline flights to protect passengers from potential harm.
As if the last four weekends have not been disheartening enough for Eli Manning, along comes another rookie quarterback, only this one has a terrific record and has charmed an entire city.
Kansas City, MO -- Casey Blake delivered a two-run single in the seventh inning and Jake Westbrook tossed seven solid frames to lead Cleveland to a 6-1 win over Kansas City in the first of a three-game series at Kauffman Stadium.
NEW YORK -- Marsh amp; McLennan Companies Inc. announced Friday that it was suspending its practice of using quot;market services agreements quot; with insurance carriers.
With Serena Williams #39; victory against Amelie Mauresmo, she not only reached the final but also assisted Lindsay Davenport in finishing the year as the No.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The deal to bring baseball back to Washington, D.C, was described by Mayor Anthony Williams as close to dead Wednesday after the City Council changed the plan to require private financing, a move Major League Baseball (MLB) called unacceptable.
AP - Illinois forward Brian Randle is expected to miss six to 10 weeks with a broken hand, an injury caused when he punched a padded wall after becoming frustrated during a scrimmage.
SALT LAKE CITY - Mark Hacking pleaded not guilty yesterday to murder in the death of his wife, Lori, whose remains were found in a landfill weeks after her disappearance.
Jiri Novak of the Czech Republic rallied to beat the American Taylor Dent, 5-7, 6-1, 6-3, on Sunday to win the Japan Open men #39;s final in Tokyo.
It was a bittersweet soccer season for Jocelyn Savastano. The former Plymouth North star and Globe All-Scholastic set school, conference, and national records in the first seven games for Saint Anselm College in Manchester, N.H.
SFX, one of the top sports representation firms, is in danger of losing agent Arn Tellem and potentially a star-studded NBA and Major League Baseball client list.
ATHENS As the delay-plagued build-up to the Olympics illustrated, the Greeks aren #39;t exactly known for organization and punctuality. But now that stadiums, new metro lines, beautified city squares and a vast ...
State and federal investigators said a day treatment center in Ashland for disabled people overcharged the government Medicaid program by exaggerating clients' disabilities to earn bigger payments.
American consumers, who substantially slowed down their spending in late summer, roared back to life in September, boosting their purchases by 0.6 per cent.
MG ROVERS controversial directors pension trust is to be substantially scaled back as the company nears the final stages of a vital partnership that will give
SAN FRANCISCO - Mayor Gavin Newsom on Sunday asked labor leaders and the management of 14 hotels embroiled in a nearly month-old dispute to resume normal operations for at least 90 days while the two sides try to negotiate a new contract.
Leroy Gordon Cooper, one of the nation #39;s first astronauts who once set a space endurance record by traveling more than 3.3 million miles aboard Gemini 5 in 1965, died on Monday, NASA said.
HBOS is said to be in talks with potential financial backers over how to fund an 8bn takeover bid for Abbey National in a move to break up a takeover plan from Spain #39;s Banco Santander Central Hispano.
Apple is set to unveil a special edition black iPod in collaboration with U2, according to a report on Forbes.com. quot;Sources close to the group say the U2 edition of the popular digital music player will come
Felipe Massa set the pace on the first full day of Formula One testing at the Jerez circuit in Spain on Wednesday. Massa posted a top lap of 1:17.513, which was almost two seconds faster than Jarno Trulli in the Toyota.
Intel Corp. President Paul S. Otellini yesterday demonstrated new chips scheduled for release next year that simultaneously run tasks such as burning CDs and playing video games, as he sought to allay concerns about product delays. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-Bloomberg News&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/font&gt;
NewsFactor - America Online (NYSE: AOL) is giving Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) a second chance by agreeing to support the software giant's anti-spam technology that it previously had rejected.
AP - Honda Motor Co., with help from partner IBM Corp., is preparing to introduce an improved speech-recognition system that will allow drivers to get voice navigation guidance without having to manually punch in any information or take their eyes off the road to read a computer screen.
Fernando tenth and Jarno seventeenth but no cause for concern, while Pat Symonds explains the challenges of Fridays at the race.
The government on Thursday extended the operating concession of financially troubled airline Vasp for another six months after the airline delivered a debt payment plan, the defense ministry said in a statement.
EDS: 'badly designed, badly developed, badly tested, badly implemented'
Storage vendors from IBM and Dell to McData and Brocade on Monday showed off their newest hardware and software at Storage Networking World, the trade show and conference that runs in Orlando, Fla.
Andrew Symonds #39; unbeaten 104 anchored Australia to a challenging total of 269 for six off 50 overs on Saturday in the NatWest one-day cricket international against Pakistan at Lord #39;s.
Following is the Globe Top 20 in EMass for girls' soccer. No. Team Record Last 1. Belmont 14-0-1 1 2. Oliver Ames 13-1-0 2 3. Lynnfield 15-0-0 3 4. Norwell 15-0-0 5 5. Andover 14-1-0 4 6. Bishop Feehan 11-1-1 6 7. Old Rochester 14-1-1 7 8. Marshfield 10-1-4 9 9. Wellesley 9-0-5 8 10. Weymouth 12-1-2 10 11. Rockland ...
VA. TECH 16, UM 10: With an ACC title and BCS berth on the line, Miami stumbles. By BOB HARIG, Times Staff Writer. MIAMI - Perhaps they were too stunned to react.
Germany #39;s Bayer AG has entered into a strategic pharmaceuticals alliance with Schering-Plough, Bayer said Monday. It said Schering-Plough would market and distribute some Bayer
Microsoft responded quickly to Apple #39;s recent European expansion for its iTunes service by launching its own online music service MSN Music in eight European countries.
PARIS: Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan said in an interview published on Thursday that he is looking to President Jacques Chirac to reassure Ankara over Frances backing for its bid to join the European Union.
Bank of America Corp. said yesterday it will bring 300 more jobs to Boston as part of its wealth management unit. The decision comes after the bank agreed
In moments of crisis, it can be comforting to know that there is someone worse off. It may be a small crumb, but it is one that both Real Madrid and AS Roma cling to gratefully as they
Tinsel town has leant its magic to a new video game with a Hollywood cast and an 18 certificate. The eagerly awaited PlayStation 2 Grand Theft Auto game San Andreas is expected to sell 25million copies worldwide for about 40 each.
Leave it to Amazon.com (Nasdaq: AMZN). Apparently, the holiday season could be a rich opportunity to addict more users to Amazon #39;s A9.
With the next-generation DVD race hotting up, Sony says that it will begin sampling optical pick-ups featuring blue laser diodes in December this year.
The competition arrayed against Apple in the growing online music market is shifting. In a deal valued at US $160 million, Yahoo! announced today the acquisition of one-time Apple partner Musicmatch.
Real Madrid paid the price for resting key players as a goalless draw at Villarreal saw them fall nine points behind league leaders Barcelona on Sunday.
England #39;s World Cup qualifying campaign got off to a miserable start yesterday when it squandered a two-goal lead to draw 2-2 with Austria in Group Six.
CQ quot; gt; Walt Disney Company shareholders might have done a double take when their chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, testified in court last week about the brief tenure of his friend, Michael S. Ovitz, as company president.
Get INQ7 breaking news on your Smart mobile phone in the Philippines. Send INQ7 BREAKING to 386. SAN FRANCISCO, California, United States of America -- After a survey by International Data Corp.
Company becomes last of the four major server sellers to fully support Novell's SuSE Linux.
American Andre Agassi defeated hard-serving Max Mirnyi of Belarus 7-6 (5), 6-3 on Tuesday to reach the third round at the $3-million US Madrid Masters tennis tournament.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Crude futures headed higher Tuesday to close at a new historic level near $47 a barrel, following news that a Russian court has rejected a plea from oil giant Yukos to suspend government efforts to collect a $3.4 billion tax ...
SOUTH Korea #39;s Samsung Electronics, the world #39;s largest memory chipmaker, is to invest $US24 billion ( $31 billion) in new chip production lines over the next six years.
The panels, each with a capacity of 190 watts, can provide 36 kilowatts of pollution-free electricity, enough to power as many as a dozen typical homes.
October 17, 2004 -- While companies take aim at iPod with a host of new players, they #39;re also targeting iTunes, Apple #39;s online music store.
After months of speculation and two quot;preview quot; releases, Microsoft unwraps its new MSN search engine, the first major competitor to join Web search major leagues in nearly a year.
A hearing about charges of racism on Zimbabwe #39;s cricket team has collapsed only a day after it began. The International Cricket Council, which was conducting the hearing in Harare, adjourned the session Thursday
The State of Hawaii has sold $225 million of general obligation bonds at an interest rate of 4.11 percent. It is, state officials said, the lowest interest rate offered in more than 30 years.
Hong Kong #39;s de facto central bank on Thursday raised its key rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.50 percent, matching the latest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve.
Rusty Pierce symbolized the Revolution's break with the past when he joined the team in 2000. The Revolution had qualified for the MLS playoffs once in their first four seasons, then advanced to the playoffs in three of the next four.
The Chicago Cubs are just a half-game ahead of the San Francisco Giants and Houston Astros in the NL wild-card race after falling to the visiting Montreal Expos, 7-6, on Brian Schneider #39;s go-ahead single in the 12th inning.
When it comes to searching, more is not always better. Data experts are honing topic maps to better classify the information that's out there. By John Gartner.
Bill Gates hopes the third time around will be the charm - again. In 1990, Microsoft unveiled Windows 3.0, the first monumentally successful version of the company #39;s flagship software.
The $58-million merger between JP Morgan Chase and Bank One Corp. is costing the region more jobs. Chase is eliminating 400 positions at its card services division, which is located at its
TWIN FALLS -- The Internal Revenue Service is looking for 410 Idaho taxpayers -- including more than 70 in Magic Valley -- whose income tax refund checks were returned from the US Postal Service as undeliverable.
Tour company shows Warner Brothers the Churchill spirit
Texas Instruments have announced the development of the wireless industry #39;s first digital TV on a single chip for mobile phones, which will capture broadcast signals and allow mobile phone users to watch live TV program broadcasts.
The Tampa Bay Devil Rays postponed Saturday and Sunday #39;s games against the Detroit Tigers as Hurricane Frances moved closer to Florida.
SYDNEY, Australia -- Australias Rod Pampling got off to a rough start Saturday and finished with a 3-over-par 74, leaving him one stroke ahead of countryman Richard Green entering the last round of the centennial Australian Open.
Reuters - Movie studios and record labels on Friday asked the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn a ruling that Internet "peer to peer" networks cannot be held liable when their users copy music and movies without permission.
BOSTON (Reuters) - General Electric Co.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GE.N&lt;/A&gt; third-quarter earnings inched up 1 percent as strength across many of its financial and industrial businesses outweighed hurricane-related insurance losses, the company said on Friday.
London, England (Sports Network) - Not much was expected from Everton this season, especially after the departure of star striker Wayne Rooney to Manchester United.
AP - The international Cassini spacecraft is providing evidence that Saturn's planet-size moon Titan is geologically alive and has active atmospheric processes that could be moving material, possibly even liquids, on its surface, scientists said Thursday.
Novell Inc. on Thursday said it swung to a fiscal fourth-quarter profit after the computer networking provider saw strong growth from its enterprise server business during the period.
Yahoo Mail Fixes Security Flaws Yahoo reportedly fixed two flaws in Yahoo Mail which had the potential to allow a hacker to read a victim's browser cookies and change the appearance of some pages, Yahoo told news services. A Yahoo representative said the flaws were fixed last month by making changes ...
(Lausanne, Switzerland-AP) Oct. 21, 2004 - The Court of Arbitration for Sport says you can #39;t change the result of a gymnastics sports competition based on hindsight.
Reuters - Japan's Nikkei share average fell nearly one percent on Tuesday after the dollar's retreat below 103 yen put pressure on exporters such as Sony Corp.
The team learned on Monday that full-back Jon Ritchie will miss the rest of the season with a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee.
This winter, as crude oil touched $53 a barrel today, they will translate into higher heating bills for American households.
Leaving their orbiting outpost unmanned, the international space station #39;s two astronauts floated outside on a spacewalk Friday, plugging in new antennas and replacing a worn-out piece of cooling equipment.
Fieldstone Mortgage has in recent years become one of the largest independent mortgage lenders in the country. But even though it is based in Columbia, you've probably never heard of it unless you're a customer.
ATHENS -- In a race of attrition that resembled a demolition derby as much as an Olympic final, Joanna Hayes of the United States captured gold in the 100-meter hurdles last night because she managed to keep her feet while others were losing theirs.
Two wildlife champions, Michel Masozera, Rwanda country director for the Wildlife Conservation Society, and Ali Kaka, executive director of Kenya's East African Wild Life Society, are this year's winners of the National Geographic Society/Buffett Award for Leadership in African Conservation.
Boston Red Sox ace Curt Schilling underwent a three-hour operation Tuesday to fix a ruptured tendon in his right ankle. Dr. Bill Morgan, the team physician, performed the surgery.
The gym I attend was buzzing with anticipation for the Monday Night matchup between The Minnesota Vikings and The Philadelphia Eagles.
AP - Evans Rutto of Kenya won his second straight Chicago Marathon on Sunday, finishing in 2 hours, 6 minutes, 16 seconds, and making him 3-for-3 at the 26.2-mile distance.
Today, adventurous British entrepreneur Richard Branson formally announced that his Virgin transport, entertainment and communications company plans to launch commercial sub-orbital space flights by 2007.
A new report into the failure of the Beagle mission to Mars has concluded that the failure can be linked to the Government #39;s failure to commit money early enough.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Nikkei average edged up 0.29 percent at the opening on Tuesday, with a second day of falls in oil prices easing fears about the global economy and prompting buying in exporters such as Sony Corp.
(Sports Network) - The Utah Jazz and Denver Nuggets play the first of a home- and-home set tonight, as the squad meet at the Pepsi Center.
Finland #39;s Tanja Poutiainen clears a gate during the women #39;s slalom World Cup race in Zauchensee, Austria, on Sunday, Dec. 12, 2004.
The main supplier of jet fuel to China is continuing to do business despite a criminal investigation of its 442.6m losses on derivative trading, the company said.
Undaunted by the presence of eight millionaires in the field, Ghostzapper blazed to a wire-to-wire win in yesterday #39;s $4 million Breeders #39; Cup Classic at Lone Star
New York #39;s Attorney General Eliot Spitzer told a US Senate subcommittee Tuesday he expects his insurance industry probe to yield additional guilty pleas.
Delta Air Lines can shift more flying to regional jets but also will have to give furloughed pilots first crack at any new jobs that result, under the tentative agreement union members begin voting on Monday.
For about three hours, the moon will traipse through Earth #39;s light and dark shadows, a lunar eclipse. At dusk, the moon will rise in the east.
TORONTO (CP) - Celestica Inc. is selling its power-systems business to C amp;D Technologies, a Pennsylvania-based company which will keep the 160 people employed at the division as part of a strategic expansion of its own business.
SAN FRANCISCO - On Tuesday, executives from Sun Microsystems Inc. will head to Wall Street, hoping to convince customers and partners in the financial industry that the company continues to be viable in the industry that Sun President and Chief Operating Officer Jonathan Scwhartz affectionately refers to as "the swamp from which we spawned." Sun is expected to make a number of new product and partnership announcements during an event for customers, press and analysts at the W Hotel in New York City on Tuesday.
Reuters - A full-fledged Windows XP computer that's a fraction of the size of a laptop seems like the answer to the digerati's prayers, but the praise greeting the OQO Model 01 has been decidedly muted.
AT amp;T (NYSE: T) is without a doubt facing many challenges to its business, and therefore, it #39;s been looking at some burgeoning areas for growth, like voice over Internet protocol (VoIP).
Santa Clara, CA -- Doron Perkins scored a game-high 18 points to lead the Santa Clara Broncos to a 73-60 victory over the San Jose State Spartans in a non-league affair.
Worries about job prospects led to a bigger-than-expected drop in consumer confidence in August and provided more evidence of the fragility of the economic expansion.
Whenever the deal gets done this time, it #39;s going to be done in its entirety. They #39;ll dot the i #39;s and cross the t #39;s and get the lawyers to sign off on each and every last collectively bargained word.
Deutsche Bank Securities maintained a quot;hold quot; rating and $8.60 target price on AT amp;T Wireless Services (nyse: AWE - news - people ), saying the Justice Department #39;s approval of Cingular #39;s takeover represents a quot;favorable settlement.
Columbus, OH (Sports Network) - With the United States men #39;s national soccer team having already booked a place in the final round of World Cup qualifying, head coach Bruce Arena is likely to put a young squad on the field Wednesday against Jamaica at
A space probe headed for Saturn #39;s largest moon, Titan, is nearing the end of its two billion mile journey, reports Nic Fleming.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Exxon Mobil Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=XOM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;XOM.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, on Thursday said quarterly profit surged 56 percent, driven by soaring oil prices and strong results from refining operations.
IBM plans to announce that it will invest $US250 million ( $350million) over five years and employ 1000 people in a new business unit to support products and services related to sensor networks and radio identification tags.
Customer satisfaction with home computers reaches three-year peak, with highest marks for Apple and Dell, survey says.
The editors of Merriam-Webster dictionaries said the most requested definition on the company #39;s Internet sites during 2004 was the four-letter word meaning a Web site that contains an
Singapore International Airline #39;s (SIA) selldown of its 6.3 per cent stake in Air New Zealand, announced yesterday, seems to have been well anticipated by the sharemarket.
We do not have to believe every cynic who says that all the great players are mercenaries who flit like butterflies through the big money clubs of the Champions League.
AFP - Soaring oil prices should inflict less damage on US economic growth and inflation than the 1970s oil shock, Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan said.
Newsday #39;s under a lot of pressure - but so is the Audit Bureau of Circulations, the agency charged with verifying circulation for the newspaper industry.
Tackle Lorenzo Alexander left the USC game with an injured elbow. X-rays and an MRI exam didn #39;t reveal any major damage. He was taking part in limited drills Monday, and coach Jeff Tedford said he expected him to be fine by Saturday.
MCI has reported a $3.4bn (1.8bn) third-quarter loss due mainly to a write-off of the value of its assets. The company #39;s efforts to recover from its bankruptcy are being hampered by stiff competition in
Kerry Earnhardt, a son of late legendary NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt #39;s, is scheduled to compete in Saturday #39;s NAPA 150 at Colorado National Speedway.
Verizon Wireless, the largest US wireless company, will expand its high-speed data service to 16 markets by the end of the year, the chairman of Verizon Communications Inc.
The US airline industry, riddled with excess supply, will see a significant drop in capacity, or far fewer seats, as a result of at least one airline liquidating in the next year, according to AirTran Airways Chief Executive Joe Leonard.
The unemployment rate for August fell to 5.4 percent from 5.5 percent, the lowest since October 2001, the government reported today.
US Airways and its pilots union broke off talks on reduced pay and benefits, the Bloomberg news service reported Monday. US Airways, Myrtle Beach International Airport #39;s busiest carrier, is seeking concessions to avoid a bankruptcy filing.
New York (CBS.MW) - Canadian stocks put in a mixed performance by midday, with the major indexes little changed on the session. Free!
Bee Sports Columnist. BEIJING - The world probably gets smaller only a little bit at a time. When Peja Stojakovic watched Yao Ming moving gracefully through a sea of people here late Sunday
NBA officials stopped a game between the Indiana Pacers and the Detroit Pistons with about 45 seconds left to play late Friday after a brawl broke out between players and fans in Detroit.
Ford Motor posted weaker U.S. vehicle sales for August today and cut its fourth-quarter production. Chrysler posted a fifth straight month of stronger results.
As Barry Bonds spoke Friday night about strength and concentration, his 5-year-old daughter, Aisha, clutched his bulging right biceps as if she were squeezing her favorite stuffed animal.
Sun execs say they're telling it like it is: HP's Unix offering is on its last legs. HP says they're flat-out wrong.
TORONTO (CP) - Weston Bakeries Ltd. has assured Canadian consumers of Wonder Bread that the product #39;s availability will not be affected by the financial woes of the company that bakes it in the United States.
Vouliagmeni, Greece - Watch Leontien Zijlaard-Van Moorsel, think Hermann Maier. Awful crash, unlikely fightback, gold within days. Instant Olympic lore.
Those looking at Lawson Software's long-term potential will like what they see.
Virgin Atlantic has won the largest share of 21 additional direct flights between the UK and India, gaining 10 to BA's seven and BMI's four.
Eleven companies in Greater Cincinnati have been singled out for exporting jobs out of the country by Working America, an organization affiliated with the AFL-CIO labor organization.
NASA has announced that its Mars robots Spirit and Opportunity would work six months longer than expected. NASA made the decision after re-establishing radio contact with the twin rovers, which had spent 12 days behind the Sun.
Sometimes bad things happen to good companies. Consider drug maker Forest Laboratories (NYSE: FRX). The company is debt-free, cash-rich, and pumping out free cash flow at $700 million a year.
Not for the first time does Internet Explorer users got a warning from a government organization. US-CERT released similar warnings in June this year, following a malware attack, which affected Internet Explorer
Oracle on Tuesday announced a 16 percent increase in its first-quarter net income, attributing the gain to demand for its database software, Oracle Database 10g.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the third- largest US securities firm, said profit rose 30 percent as fixed-income and commodities trading revenue increased by almost $1 billion and fees from mergers advice climbed.
Following availability in the United States, the Voq Professional Phone is now available across Europe. The phone is now available to purchase from A amp; C Systems
With more than 30m sales under its belt, Grand Theft Auto is one of the most popular video game franchises. But today it is hoping that its new release, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, can break all records
SAN JOSE, Calif. - Samsung, Philips, HP, the Digital TV Industry Alliance of China (DTVIA) and Access on Monday (Nov. 1) announced the formation of the Universal Home Application Programmer Interface (UHAPI) Forum.
Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (NYSE:FSL) today is providing architectural details of its most powerful processor to date: the MPC8641D Dual Core processor.
AFP - The Spanish bank Santander Central Hispano said it still expects to complete its acquisition of British home-loan specialist Abbey National by the end of this year.
The Modern Maturity set is a growing yet elusive demographic for IT product engineers and Web site designers.
Internet portal Lycos Europe has denied that its quot;Make love not spam quot; Web site was hacked into and defaced last night. The company said that an e-mail that contained an apparent mirror image of the Web site being hacked was a hoax generated by spammers.
AP - In March, NASA launched an experimental jet that reached a record-setting speed of about 5,000 mph. Now researchers want to leave that milestone in the dust.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks rose on Thursday as data showing inflation slowed last month boosted investors' hopes that the Federal Reserve will keep to its course of measured interest rate hikes.
McNair threw a touchdown pass, directed two other scoring drives as the Titans (4-6) beat the Jacksonville Jaguars (6-4) 18-15 Sunday.
LONDON, England -- Manchester City manager Kevin Keegan has been charged by the Football Association with verbally abusing referee Steve Dunn after his side #39;s 4-3 defeat at Newcastle.
Reuters - Tennessee Titans quarterback Steve McNair will not play again this season because of a bruised sternum that has bothered him throughout the year. He is expected to undergo surgery.
Quarterback Troy Smith ran for 145 yards as the Buckeyes upset the Wolverines, who might have also lost a return visit to the Rose Bowl.
US consumer confidence sank in August while Chicago-area business activity slowed, according to reports on Tuesday that added to worries the economy #39;s patch of sluggish growth may last beyond the summer.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Communications Commission Chairman Michael Powell plans to recommend Cingular Wireless receive approval to purchase AT T Wireless Services Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AWE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AWE.N&lt;/A&gt; with some divestitures, sources familiar with the matter said on Monday.
The Pentagon is building its own Internet, which will give commanders and troops a moving picture of all enemies and threats.
PLAYSTATION 3 will use the Blu-ray Disc format, while a new, slimmer PlayStation 2 will go on sale internationally early in November.
(Sports Network) - Ryan Drese attempts win No. 15 this afternoon when the Texas Rangers conclude their three-game set with the Seattle Mariners at Ameriquest Field.
AT amp;T Corp. (TN: Quote, Profile, Research) , the No. 3 US telephone company, on Thursday reported a $7.1 billion third-quarter loss due to $12.
Pennsylvania #39;s attorney general on Monday sued two men for allegedly violating state law by sending out junk e-mail touting an online university that grants diplomas in 72 hours.
For the second time in three weeks, a tropical disturbance has forced the Miami Dolphins from participating in an NFL Sunday. With Hurricane Jeanne - a Category 2 storm - threatening the east coast of Florida
Intel #39;s board of directors has elected current president and chief operating officer Paul Otellini as its next chief executive, succeeding Craig Barrett, who was named new chairman of the board.
Digital technology has now replaced the old photo-finish cameras at Britain #39;s racecourses, but still there are times when even a computer cannot help.
LONDON (Reuters) - Wall Street was set to start softer on Thursday with the insurance sector in the spotlight again after American International Group &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AIG.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AIG.N&lt;/A&gt; said it was being probed by a federal grand jury.
The beaches of the east coast #39;s barrier islands seemed as calm as they could be on Monday. Just one day after Hurricane Frances wobbled through, only
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- The California Public Employees #39; Retirement System, the nation #39;s largest public pension fund, plans to double to $2 billion its hedge fund investment, widely seen as a risky neighborhood of the investment world.
London - Senegal World Cup striker El Hadji Diouf will miss Bolton #39;s next three games after he admitted a misconduct charge on Tuesday for spitting in an opponent #39;s face.
Oil and gas company Anadarko Petroleum Corp. said Monday that it is selling its Southeast Colorado producing properties to an affiliate of Citation Oil amp; Gas Corp.
Late Wednesday night, Yahoo (Quote, Chart) unveiled plans to debut a beta version of Yahoo Desktop Search in the coming weeks. At the same time, Ask Jeeves (Quote, Chart) confirmed to internetnews.
The trial of an alleged fraudulent sale by Enron Corp. to Merrill Lynch ended its fourth week with a discussion of rudimentary accounting principles by the last of six defendants on trial for conspiracy and fraud.
Embargo or not, Fidel Castro's socialist paradise has quietly become a pharmaceutical powerhouse. (They're still working on the capitalism thing.) By Douglas Starr from Wired magazine.
AP - Saints running back Deuce McAllister lasted just a handful of plays before spraining his right ankle against San Francisco, one of several prominent players who got hurt Sunday.
Paula Radcliffe arrived at the Olympic Stadium tonight determined to bury the ghost of Sundays marathon by winning a medal in the 10,000metres final.
ALDERSON, W.Va. (Reuters) - Trendsetter Martha Stewart reported to a minimum-security prison known as "Camp Cupcake" on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for a suspicious sale of stock, U.S. prison officials said.
Jordan #39;s boss Eddie Jordan promised here on Thursday that he would fight to stay in next season #39;s Formula One championship despite the tough situation he faces.
ATHENS - Greek prosecutors are expected today to announce the results of an investigation into whether the country #39;s top sprinters faked a road accident in a doping scandal that rocked Greece and plagued the Athens Olympics.
Despite a new study indicating nearly 16,000 dormitory beds have been created over the past 14 years, Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino said yesterday that colleges and universities will have to consider freezing enrollments to avoid adding to Boston's housing shortage.
MacCentral - Microsoft's Macintosh Business Unit on Tuesday issued a patch for Virtual PC 7 that fixes a problem that occurred when running the software on Power Mac G5 computers with more than 2GB of RAM installed. Previously, Virtual PC 7 would not run on those computers, causing a fatal error that crashed the application. Microsoft also noted that Virtual PC 7.0.1 also offers stability improvements, although it wasn't more specific than that -- some users have reported problems with using USB devices and other issues.
icrosoft laid out its plan yesterday for shipping the next version of its Windows operating system for personal computers in 2006, but to meet its timetable the company has scaled back its technological ambitions for the product.
While Chinese athletics were striving for gold at the Athens Olympics, Chinese companies and international firms are competing for the business chances offered by the Games.
Nursing a repaired nose, Sue Bird has 10 points and 14 assists to lead the Seattle Storm to the WNBA finals with an 82-62 win over the Sacramento Monarchs on Tuesday.
A Scandinavian and a Dutch dairy announce plans to merge and create a co-operative of 21,000 farmers.
(CBS) I have no idea whether Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates stays up at night worrying about his empire but, if he does, he may very well be losing sleep over the Mozilla Foundation.
one of the richest and most recognizable basketball players in the world, an exclusive resort, an admiring young woman, an alleged rape.
PalmSource surprised the mobile vendor community today with the announcement that it will acquire China MobileSoft (CMS), ostensibly to leverage that company's expertise in building a mobile version of the Linux operating system.
Curt Schilling and Pedro Martinez couldn #39;t bring the Boston Red Sox a win against the New York Yankees in the first two games of the AL championship series.
Two telecom providers have come together in the name of Wi-Fi. Sprint and SBC Communications have signed a bi-lateral roaming agreement that will enable their customers more wireless access while on the go.
TechWeb - Web sites for Indymedia, a Texas company, were knocked offline when the servers housing them were seized in Britain. Indymedia and civil libertarians are charging censorship.
3) Rain may postpone Game 6. Do the Sox still have a chance if rain breaks their momentum? Yes, a day of rest would help the Sox, too.
Airbus SAS, the world #39;s largest maker of airplanes, said it received firm orders from China Eastern Airlines and Air China, two of the country #39;s main carriers, to buy 26 planes.
Ten years ago, Boston real estate developer Norman B. Leventhal spearheaded the transformation of a grungy Financial District garage into a park that's become a downtown oasis.
Telekom Austria AG plans to buy Bulgaria #39;s largest wireless company, MobilTel EAD, for 1.15 billion euros ( $1.5 billion), adding 3 million subscribers in a nation where less than half the population has a cellular phone.
Kim Byung-hyun officially rejoined the Boston Red Sox for the stretch run on Tuesday and has a shot at making the teams post-season roster if he impresses on the mound over the final two weeks of the MLB season.
Nike Inc., the world #39;s largest shoemaker, on Thursday said its profit grew 46 percent in the second quarter as its sales gained traction in the US, Chinese, Russian and Turkish markets.
Yesterdays crash of the Genesis sample return canister forced scientists to look for slivers of hope in the busted up remains of fragile collection arrays.
Raymond Hines rushed for 193 yards and a one-yard touchdown as James Madison defeated Lehigh, 14-13, in the first round of the Division I-AA playoffs in Bethlehem, Pa., yesterday.
OF THE millions of words the garrulous Martin ONeill has felt the urge to utter since the start of the season, the two he used on the eve of Celtics Champions League showdown with Shakhtar Donetsk carried more significance than all the others put
NEW YORK - Third-quarter earnings are meeting Wall Street #39;s expectations, but the lack of company forecasts on future earnings - or disappointing outlooks in many cases - is starting to have investors worried.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the third- largest US securities firm, said quarterly profit rose 23 percent. Its shares had their biggest fall in more than a year as trading revenue tumbled from the prior three months.
Today, Panasonic revealed the new models of DIGA DVD recorders. These recorders have HDD capacities of 160GB to 400GB. This is massive storage space for DVD Recorder; it also has high-speed dubbing, and superb home and mobile networking capabilities.
ALL too often at a championship that produces a relatively surprising leader after the opening round, does that player get rather overtaken at the enormity of the situation and slide, sometimes none too gracefully, away down the leaderboard and out of the
quot;It is extremely pleasing to see that additional benefits have already started flowing to both BHP Billiton and its Chinese partners as a result of the Wheelarra joint venture, quot; BHP Billiton Iron Ore president Graeme Hunt said in a statement.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Nike Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NKE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NKE.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's largest athletic shoe company, on Monday reported a 25 percent rise in quarterly profit, beating analysts' estimates, on growing demand for its namesake products in the United States.
Its that time of year again, as members of the Salvation Army fan out across the Wabash Valley. Its time for their annual Christmas kettle bell ringing season.
Astronomers have found the latest planet in another solar system -r quot;exoplanet quot; -ng telescopes no bigger than those you might find at a garage sale.
A consortium of technology companies hopes to create a common antipiracy language, ending the Babel of copy-proofing technologies that has rendered much digital content and hardware incompatible.
Qwest agreed Thursday to settle with the Securities and Exchange Commission over charges that the company fraudulently booked $3.8 billion in revenue over nearly three years.
How is it possible that Brett Favre has never played in Washington, not at RFK, not at FedEx Field, not in the preseason, not the regular season, not the playoffs?
Boston University will raise the curtain on a new $225 million athletic complex at a gala next week, and its much-anticipated Agganis Arena will host its inaugural hockey game Jan. 3.
A total eclipse of the Moon will occur overnight Wednesday, an event that can turn Earth #39;s satellite to a colourful shade ranging from deep red to dark brown and sometimes an existential grey.
AP - Burt Rutan, an aviator whose SpaceShipOne won the #36;10 million Ansari X-Prize for making three suborbital space flights, said NASA needs another Wernher von Braun #151; and chided the space agency for what he called a failed space shuttle program.
SINGAPORE : Singapore Telecoms has joined hands with six other Asian telcos to form a unified regional mobile network. The Bridge Mobile Alliance will be equally owned by SingTel
The dollar surged against the euro, yen and Swiss franc on Monday as, with a Group of Seven rich nations meeting out of the way, the greenback was free to join a wave of optimism about the US economy.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns Companies posted a drop in quarterly profits on Wednesday, surprising some investors one day after two other big investment banks reported a rise in earnings.
It might cost you $25 to pick up a wireless access point at Circuit City, but if you want to fool around with some enterprise-level WiFi you normally gotta shell out the big bucks for some commercial-grade ceiling-mounted gear.
Rising fuel costs and high air fares push up UK inflation during November, according to official figures.
Reuters - U.S. chip maker Advanced Micro Devices has unveiled a low-cost Internet access device that could cost just a few hundred dollars, aimed at first-time technology users in the developing world.
International Business Machines Corp. said Monday it will provide voice and data services to British financial-services company Lloyds TSB Group PLC for seven years in a deal worth $971.6 million.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar stayed in sight of historic lows against the euro on Friday as traders braced for a meeting of G20 finance ministers that is not expected to act against the dollar's weakness.
Carrefour, the world #39;s No. 2 retailer said Wednesday that its profit increased 5.3 percent in the first half of the year, as robust international operations and lower finance costs helped it ride out tough conditions at its core French superstores.
Even his biggest fans might see Steven P. Jobs, Apple Computer's chief executive, as a brilliant dunce.
The company has placed chief credit officer Sandra W. Jansky and controller Jorge Arrieta on paid administrative leave until the review is completed.
Google and Microsoft separately plan to introduce on Thursday enhanced information sharing services for Internet users. Microsoft plans for the first time to offer a
The two companies zoom in on semiconductor technology to help digital cameras and camera phones take better pictures.
BEIJING (Reuters) - The NBA is considering playing some of its regular season games in China, commissioner David Stern said Friday.
Let's say Boston is the sun of the baseball universe, where hope and criticism burn bright, where a city revolves around the game.
IBM will pay out $320 million to settle part of a class-action lawsuit relating to its pension plan. The settlement does not, however, address the critical issue of whether the companys controversial cash
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Quentin Richardson poured in 37 points, including eight three-pointers, and Shawn Marion added 16 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Phoenix Suns to a 121-99 thrashing of the host Portland Trail Blazers Sunday.
NEW DELHI, AUGUST 26: A voice vote was enough to complete the three-stage Budgetary exerciseand clear over Rs 500,000 crore worth of finances.
Germany coach Jurgen Klinsmann is quot;thrilled quot; by the news that his team will kick-off the 2006 World Cup at Munich #39;s new Allianz Arena.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) -- Fired HealthSouth chief executive Richard Scrushy will go on trial January 5th.
The mobile service tower (MST) was retracted from around the Boeing Delta 2 rocket at launch pad 17B at Cape Canaveral, Fla., Thursday, Nov. 4, 2004, exposing the vehicle as the countdown entered its final hours before liftoff.
GEORGETOWN, Del., Oct. 26 -- Michael Ovitz said on Tuesday that Walt Disney Co. would have made a string of dazzling deals and shrewd strategic moves during his brief tenure as the company's president in the mid-1990s, if only chief executive Michael D. Eisner had not shot down his ideas.
HOUSTON (Reuters) - Roger Clemens came out of brief retirement earlier this year with one goal in mind...to lead his hometown Houston Astros to post-season glory for the first time.
NORTON -- Had the numbers shaken out a bit differently, spectators at today's third round of the Deutsche Bank Championship would have had some color with their morning coffee.
General Motors Corp., the world #39;s largest automaker, has no plans to name former DaimlerChrysler AG executive Wolfgang Bernhard to a senior post, Vice Chairman Robert Lutz said.
Lleyton Hewitt has lost his rain-interrupted semi-final to Czech Jiri Novak in three sets at the Japan Open. The Australian dropped the opening set 4-6, but rallied to take the second 6-4 and send the match into a decider.
A new version of the Bagle computer virus is spreading rapidly around the internet.
The Cyber Security Industry Alliance (CSIA) has recommended that the Bush administration get a handle on cybersecurity issues, and has issued a 12 point recommendation to the White House to aid in the education process.
The Internet is abuzz with malicious messages that claim David Beckham has been caught on film in a compromising position. Those who click on the Web links in such messages do not see pictures
Kevin Garnett just missed out on a triple-double with 21 points, 17 rebounds and nine assists to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves to a gritty 83-82 road win over the Dallas Mavericks on Monday.
It #39;s good to be good these days. Good Technology, that is. The private maker of a wireless email service that claims to be more agnostic than the popular BlackBerry service from
Not too long ago, Google Inc seemed little more than a nuisance to Microsoft Corp #39;s software domination. No more. As Google rapidly rolls out new products, the company best known for its wildly popular search
Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) will cut about 4,400 jobs and close a third of its factories under a program aimed at fighting rising costs and focusing on higher-profit areas such as oral care, the company said on Tuesday.
Receive an accredited college degree based on your work and life experience. Almeda University can help you take charge of your career. Our evaluation process is free.
WISCONSIN (9-1) vs. IOWA (8-2) When, where: Tomorrow, 3:30 p.m., at Iowa City. TV: ESPN. Last season: Iowa won, 27-21. Comments: No. 9 Wisconsin is looking to bounce back after losing for the first time this season, 49-14, at Michigan State. DB Jim Leonhard has 19 career interceptions, two shy of the school record. QB John Stocco, who is averaging ...
California Attorney General Bill Lockyer will move forward with a false-claims lawsuit against the electronic voting-machine maker. The Golden State accuses Diebold of installing electronic voting systems that were not tested or approved.
US Airways Group Inc. #39;s pilots union said on Wednesday it may agree this week on a plan to cut wages and benefits to help the seventh-biggest US airline avoid a second bankruptcy filing.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar kept its gains versus other major currencies early on Monday after U.S. economic data eased concerns that surging oil prices may have hurt growth, keeping expectations alive for more rises in interest rates.
Some wireless gadgets pump music from a computer to a stereo or TV. Others take a broadband connection and make it available to any PC within range.
Associate Administrator Craig E. Steidle, the retired Navy rear admiral who runs NASA's not-so-new-anymore Office of Exploration Systems, went to work for NASA after the top brass lured him in as a consultant.
ARLINGTON, Va. -- Talks between US Airways Group and the union representing pilots have broken down, the Air Line Pilots Association said Monday.
Reuters - Australia could expect more frequent droughts, heatwaves, rainstorms and strong winds because of greenhouse gas-induced climate change, the country's main science research body warned on Monday.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Computer Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=AAPL.O qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;AAPL.O&lt;/A&gt; is suing anonymous people who leaked details about new products by posting information on the Internet, court documents showed on Friday.
Microsoft MSN Desktop Search Is Out In Beta As expected, Microsoft has finally released a beta of their Desktop Search software. It is integrated with their Browser Toolbar set and is now labeled MSN Toolbar Suite Beta. The download size is huge compared to Google Desktop Search at 4.8megs and you would ...
ATHENS (Reuters) - Dwight Phillips of the United States completed a hat-trick of global long jump titles when he crushed the field with his opening leap to take gold in Thursday's Olympic final Thursday.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - First-day sales of Microsoft Corp.'s &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=MSFT.O qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;MSFT.O&lt;/A&gt; new video game "Halo 2" will reach $100 million, a senior Microsoft games executive said on Tuesday.
General Motors lowered its forecast for the entire year only hours after announcing plans to cut 12,000 jobs in Europe by 2006.
A new service will measure radio audiences in cars, combining global positioning technology and tracking of the radio dial to challenge Arbitron, the dominant radio ratings provider.
The Russian basketball champions, CSKA Moscow, said Friday that they were disappointed that the Utah Jazz of the NBA had pulled out off a planned exhibition match Oct. 8 in Moscow because of security fears.
Shares of Web search leader Google (GOOG) rose more than 5 in extended trade Tuesday after Goldman Sachs analyst Anthony Noto put a $215 price target on the stock.
Charles H. Bell, the chief executive of the McDonald #39;s Corporation, is recuperating after another surgery, the company said on Saturday.
With a legacy of pugilism growing by the series, the Yankees and the Red Sox continued to add to their long list of run-ins, although Sunday #39;s slights and brushbacks were
day shot down a proposal to create a quot;multiracial quot; box on freshman application forms -- a plan suggested by Regent Ward Connerly that quickly became a flashpoint in lingering debates over affirmative action.
Dow component AIG says SEC staff may recommend action against it related to past transactions. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Insurer American International Group Inc.
Manchester United, the world #39;s biggest soccer club, said revenue from broadcasting, a third of its total income, may plunge 25 percent next year as the team earns less from televised games in England and Europe.
OUTLOOK FOR HUBBLE: The newest report on a plan to save the popular, aging space telescope by repairing it with a robot says it would cost $2 billion and have just a 50-50 chance of working.
Ex-player John Robertson was named manager of Scottish Premier League Hearts on Wednesday. Robertson, who made his name as a striker at Hearts, has left premier league rivals Inverness
Tiger Woods is faltering on the PGA Tour these days, while Vijay Singh has taken over the No. 1 ranking in the world. If only Woods could play like his video game character in quot;Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005.
Scientists are optimistic that they will retrieve useful information from the smashed capsule that fell to earth in the Utah desert after three years in space.
People who illegally share copyrighted music and movies over the Internet could be jailed for up to five years under a bill approved by a powerful congressional panel today.
Reuters - The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday voted to allow workers and retirees to find out from a federal agency just how severe the shortfalls are in their companies' pension plans.
Tokyo stocks edged higher Wednesday in cautious trading amid continued aftershocks from an earthquake that rocked northern Japan and news of a Japanese citizen kidnapped in Iraq.
A pull back in oil prices and upbeat outlooks from Wal-Mart and Lowe's prompted new bargain-hunting on Wall Street today.
In a discovery sure to set off a firestorm of debate over human migration to the western hemisphere, archaeologists in South Carolina say they have uncovered evidence that people lived in eastern North America at least 50,000 years ago - far earlier than
Chelsea Football Club are keen to test Real Madrids resolve to keep Michael Owen with a big money January move for the striker.
Oil prices raced to new record highs above $50 on Tuesday, despite a pledge by OPEC producer Saudi Arabia to increase production, as rebel threats against Nigerian oil facilities threatened to inflict further strain on global supplies
IBM is claiming a storage management victory over EMCand has said it can control its entire line of storage arrays with the latest version of its San Volume Controller appliance.
SEOUL (AFX) - Samsung Electronics Co said that it has developed a hard disc drive (HDD)-embedded mobile handset, claiming it the world #39;s first.
Pfizer Inc. on Friday said a government-sponsored cancer-prevention trial of its blockbuster arthritis drug Celebrex was halted after patients taking it had more than
Phil Craven, head of the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) told a press conference he was very upbeat about the Games.
South Africa coach Jake White was a relieved man after watching his side concede two last-gasp tries before hanging on for a 38-36 victory over Wales at the Millennium Stadium on Saturday.
Mumbai, Oct. 6 (PTI): Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, today said the foreign direct and portfolio investments are welcome in various sectors of the economy, including the banking sector.
United States shoppers have spent more on the first day of holiday shopping than they did a year ago but retailers #39; hopes for the key season were curbed as titan Wal-Mart cut its November sales forecast.
(Clint Willis is a freelance writer who covers mutual funds for Reuters. Any opinions in the column are solely those of Mr. Willis.)
Customers of Sprint Corp. and SBC Communications Inc. will be able to use both companies #39; wireless Internet connections with less hassle under a reciprocal deal announced Friday.
ASHBURN, Va., Dec. 10 (AP) - Washington Redskins running back Clinton Portis and safety Sean Taylor were fined $5,000 by the National Football League for wearing red socks in Sunday's game, a violation of the league's uniform rules.
In a nasty trade battle that could rattle the multibillion-dollar aerospace industry, the US and Europe formally sued one another in the World Trade Organisation over the huge government subsidies paid to their respective aircraft giants, Boeing and Airbus
No, his position in the starting lineup isn #39;t solidified after one preseason game, and there #39;s a big question mark surrounding his future.
Trend Micro on Monday followed in the footsteps of rivals like Symantec by introducing anti-virus and anti-spam software for handhelds and smart cell phones.
To the roar of an adoring home crowd, Fani Halkia completed her unexpected romp through the Olympics on Wednesday with a victory in the women #39;s 400-meter hurdles.
Google engineers must have breathed a sigh of relief Thursday when rival Microsoft Corp. rolled out a new search engine that proved glitchy and failed to wow reviewers.
SEATTLE (AP) -- RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK) is ending a temporary promotion that slashed the price of its downloadable songs to 49 cents, but bargain hunters will still be able to find some deals at its online music store...
With an emotion-charged speech that had people in the audience alternately laughing and wiping tears from their eyes, Charlie Sifford made his long overdue entrance into the World Golf Hall of Fame on Monday night.
As a bicycle kingdom gearing-up to become an automobile society, China, the world #39;s third largest car manufacturing base, is facing a serious problem of automobile-related pollution and soaring levels of petrol consumption.
ESPN-Star Sports, who lost the bid to telecast international cricket played in India over the next four years, have challenged the Indian board #39;s decision to award the rights to Zee Network in the Mumbai High Court.
Software pirates' increasing skill at creating counterfeit versions of Windows XP has prompted Microsoft to introduce a pilot program that offers to verify whether consumers' software is legitimate and replace fake versions with authentic goods.
After watching eBay siphon off their classified advertising revenue, newspapers are turning to an outsourced auction firm, CityXpress, to fight back. By Daniel Terdiman
The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in the summer as a big rebound in auto sales offset weakness from an expanding trade deficit, soaring
NEW YORK Aug. 19, 2004 - Offering more evidence that the nation #39;s economic recovery is losing steam, a closely watched gauge of future business activity fell in July for the second consecutive month.
The Taiwan-made AC adapters sold with Dell notebooks can overheat, posing risk of fire and electrical shock.
The Golden State passes a law aimed at cracking down on what some feel is the internet's next scourge -- spyware. But critics say it's only a partial step toward protecting consumers.
The online shopping and download center for Windows-related stuff gets a public workout.
The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway is nearing the completion of a $30 million, government-funded IP network that will support combined voice, data and video traffic along a heavily used rail corridor between Seattle and Tacoma.
Says new research shows that it remains the top server computer vendor. But HP trumpets leadership in "high growth" segments.
Reuters - The ranks of Americans filing initial claims for jobless pay shrank by more than expected last week to 323,000, government data showed on Wednesday, while continued claims fell to a 3-1/2 year low in more good news for the U.S. labor market.
Players offered arbitration have until Dec. 19 to either accept or reject. Players who reject arbitration may sign with former club until Jan. 8 (or after May 1).
NEW YORK -- Mel Karmazin, former president of media conglomerate Viacom Inc. , is joining Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. as chief executive, replacing Joseph Clayton, who is staying on as chairman, the company said yesterday.
The White Sox #39; 10-2 loss to the Twins at the Metrodome Tuesday night offered a nearly perfect mirror to an increasingly ugly season.
AP - Bronze is better than nothing. That's one Olympic lesson the U.S. men's basketball team was able to understand. The Americans took the third-place game seriously Saturday night, earning some revenge and salvaging some self-respect in a 104-96 victory over Lithuania. Although they didn't get what they wanted in Athens, they didn't embarrass themselves in their finale, either.
Made nervous by the announcement that McAfee #39;s (MFE:NYSE - news - research) CFO plans to resign, investors on Tuesday sold off shares of the antivirus maker.
You want answers and you want them now. The only thing is, four weeks of ludicrous exhibition games haven't told you anything. So here's some advice: Take it slow, real slow.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Pfizer Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PFE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PFE.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday reaffirmed it expects 2004 earnings to be more than 20 percent above last year, but warned that results in 2005-2007 will be hurt by patent expirations on over a half-dozen of its best-selling medicines.
With its major competitors mired in a struggle for financial survival, American Airlines yesterday kicked off a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign aimed at grabbing market share and capitalizing on its own turnaround.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's Nina Kraft has been stripped of her Hawaii Ironman title after admitting taking the banned blood-boosting substance EPO.
General Motors plans to install a global identity management system that will provide single-sign-on access to applications for about 500,000 internal and external end users, and Boeing is in the midst of a similar project -- both aimed at cutting IT costs and improving user productivity.
This morning as Britain awakes, Kostas Kenteris and his training partner, Katerina Thanou, will be asked three questions by the disciplinary commission of the International Olympic Committee. These will determine whether they deliberately ...
washingtonpost.com - The major Hollywood movie studios today sued hundreds of people suspected of trading illegally copied movies on the Internet, a move closely modeled on the recording industry's aggressive legal campaign to stamp out music piracy.
While hanging a television on the living-room wall may have captured the imagination of American consumers, it has yet to empty many pocketbooks.
Villeneuve has been looking to find a way back since he lost his drive at BAR, and after Renault confirmed he would be testing for them at Silverstone this week with a possibility of completing the season following Jarno Trullis releases, Sauber have
Sony and Samsung started negotiations on the cross-licensing deal in December 2003. The agreement is broad, covering 94 percent of Sony #39;s 13,000 US registered patents, and a similar percentage of Samsung #39;s 11,000 US registered patents.
US world number two Andy Roddick will face Belarus #39; Vladimir Voltchkov in the opening singles tie of their Davis Cup semi-final on Friday.
There aren #39;t many NBA coaches who would publicly side with a player, as opposed to management, in a contract dispute. But then, there aren #39;t many coaches like San Antonio #39;s Gregg Popovich, who has the luxury
Lion Nathan Ltd, Australasia #39;s second-largest brewer, is to sell its China beer business to China Resources Snow Breweries (CRSB) for US $154 million, the two companies announced yesterday.
LONDON : Sven-Goran Eriksson is redeemed as England coach partly through luck but also because he took the bold selection decisions necessary ahead of England #39;s 2-1 victory over Poland, the British press said.
FOXBOROUGH -- The game has been hyped on national television for a week. It will be played in a stadium full of fans wearing T-shirts made for that night. One player has dubbed the contest, quot;Super Bowl No. 2, Round 2. quot;
There #39;s a song by a band I definitely don #39;t listen to, quot;Don #39;t stop thinking about tomorrow, quot; but the lyrics rather tellingly continue, quot;Yesterday #39;s gone, yesterday #39;s
THOUSAND OAKS -- Anonymity is only a problem if you want it to be, and it is obvious Vijay Singh doesn #39;t want it to be. Let others chase fame.
It was less than two years ago that Wall Street analysts Jack Grubman and Henry Blodget paid $19 million in fines and were banned from the securities industry for life to settle allegations that they'd promoted stocks like WorldCom and Global Crossing as the telecom companies swan-dived into an empty swimming pool. Shortly after that, in April 2003, 10 of ...
Telestream announced Friday support for exporting or importing files in the Microsoft Windows Media format on Mac OS X platforms. Telestream #39;s new support capabilities for Windows Media
Toyota Motor Corp. will start building its Prius hybrid sedans in China next year with FAW Group in a step it hopes will promote the vehicles as the global standard for fuel-efficient cars.
A new micro-generator developed at the Georgia Institute of Technology holds promise for micro-generator technology #39;s future in electronics devices.
Inside a Torrance, Calif., collection agency, workers sit at cubicles and call people who are behind on their debts. On the wall is a 10-foot diagram of former UCLA basketball coach John Wooden's Pyramid of Success.
Reuters - Internet media company Yahoo Inc. on Wednesday launched its Web search service aimed at mobile phone users in the United States, opening a new front in its rivalry with Internet search leader Google Inc.
NAPERVILLE - Tellabs Inc. plans to lower its price for Advanced Fibre Communications Inc. to $1.5 billion from the $1.9 billion announced May 20.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average rose 0.35 percent by mid-morning on Tuesday as investors sought bargains among technology and shipping firms, but gains were limited by caution ahead of a monetary policy meeting in the United States.
MANILA - Improved revenue flows and increased electricity tariffs are likely to help the Philippines keep well within the 2004 budget and consolidated public sector deficit targets, officials said.
AP - The Miami Dolphins reluctantly played their exhibition game at New Orleans on Friday, not wanting to leave their families, friends and homes as Hurricane Frances neared the eastern coast of Florida.
Throughout these Olympic Games, United States boxing coach Basheer Abdullah has lamented that his young fighters weren #39;t listening to him.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - International Business Machines Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=IBM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;IBM.N&lt;/A&gt; has put its personal computing business up for sale in a deal that could be worth as much as $2 billion, the New York Times reported on Friday.
Said one participant in the project, quot;This is the day the world changes, quot; and you have to grant that he is on to something: Google #39;s plan to put the contents of five major libraries
Reuters - A proposed settlement between Coca-Cola Co. and the European Commission to end a long-running antitrust case over fizzy drinks is not yet set in stone, the European Union's executive said on Monday.
The track-owning BRDC ultimately gambled on making a loss next year by succumbing to Ecclestone #39;s proposed race fee. The only sticking point now is the duration of a new contract -- Bernie wants to renegotiate
If every postseason game were an opener, the Metrodome would be filled with World Series banners. Eight times in a row, Minnesota has won the first game of a playoff.
A federal jury in New York has ruled that Sun violated several patents held by Eastman Kodak when it developed its Java technology.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--Unable to repel an invasion of foreigners into the once tightly-controlled Macau gaming market, casino baron Stanley Ho has joined forces with Australia #39;s
It #39;s not all bitterness and resentment in Raptorland these days. While Vince Carter has demanded to be traded, Rafer Alston was expressing his joy yesterday at being back in Toronto.
Germany's high-tech truck toll system, which relies on GPS technology and GSM wireless networks, began operation on Saturday without a glitch.
SEATTLE (Ticker) -- The Seattle Storm look to end a three-game losing streak when they host the defending WNBA champion Detroit Shock at Key Arena on Wednesday.
America Online is putting out a call to developers to bring its instant-messaging software to more cell phones. The AOL Mobile Developer program, announced Monday, is meant to reduce the time manufacturers
The Yukos oil company has filed for bankruptcy in the US and appealed for a temporary restraining order against the auction of its main production unit, scheduled for Sunday.
Reuters - U.S. investment bank Citigroup is set to bid for UK stockbroker Cazenove , challenging rivals JP Morgan and Lehman Brothers for the City's most venerable institution, the Observer reported.
Maria Sharapova is in uncharted waters here, having reached the third round at Flushing Meadows for the first time. But I #39;m confident she can sink Mary Pierce this weekend and sail on into the second week of play.
AP - Corey Koskie homered and hit a go-ahead two-run single in the eighth inning, lifting the Minnesota Twins over the Cleveland Indians 4-3 Friday night.
NEW DELHI: India #39;s leading batsman Sachin Tendulkar is set to return for the third cricket test against Australia in Nagpur after coming through a fitness check yesterday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Third seed Carlos Moya became the highest seed to exit the U.S. Open when he was dumped out 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, 6-7, 7-5 by unseeded Belgian Olivier Rochus in the third round Saturday.
Former Enron Corp. Assistant Treasurer Timothy Despain was charged in Houston federal court Tuesday with conspiracy to commit securities fraud and has agreed to cooperate with federal prosecutors investigating the company.
NEW YORK - A day after sacking its chief executive, Marsh amp; McLennan (MMC) announced Tuesday it will stop accepting fees at the heart of a lawsuit by New York #39;s attorney general accusing the world #39;s largest insurance broker of rigging prices.
Chip bellwether Intel Corp. saw revenues and net income go higher sequentially and year over year for Q3 amid questions about the industry #39;s health as it heads towards what many believe is the down part of the cycle.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Nexen Inc. has agreed to buy a U.K.-based subsidiary of EnCana Corp. in an all-cash deal worth $2.1 billion, enabling Canada's fourth largest oil explorer to expand into the U.K. sector of the North Sea.
Japanese consumers will be spared the agony of downloading Microsoft #39;s internet connection throttling Service Pack 2 -- they #39;ll be able to pick up a free CD containing the software at their local post office.
ATHENS -- In the 2000 Games, the US taekwondo team brought four athletes to Sydney and won one medal, Steve Lopez taking the gold in the 150-pound division.
Circuit City is phasing out the sale of T-Mobile wireless service as it prepares to focus on launch of Verizon Wireless stores within its own walls.
Kurt Warner #39;s first preseason as the Giants #39; quarterback ended ominously as he was sacked twice more Thursday night, when the team faced the Baltimore Ravens
You can learn a lot from a microbe. Right now, a tiny critter from the Dead Sea is teaching scientists new things about biotechnology, cancer, possible life on other worlds. And that's just for starters.
Dr Joseph Hartvigsen (L) of Ceramatex, Inc, holds a fuel cell during a news conference Nov. 29 at Ceramatex Advanced Materials amp; Electrochemical Technologies in Salt Lake City.
THE defence of Gold Fields against a hostile $8.1 billion (4.3 billion) bid from Harmony Gold Mining, its smaller South African rival, was dealt a further blow last night when a US court threw out its legal challenge to the takeover.
Hong Kong shares rose slightly on Wednesday, tracking gains on Wall Street as the US Federal Reserve announced a rate hike. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index climbed 35.02 points, or 0.25 percent, to 14,078.54.
ANGRY soccer fans missed most of Harry Kewell #39;s rare Sydney performance on Tuesday because of long queues to buy and collect tickets.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - White House officials have asked the Justice Department to determine whether Air Force Secretary James Roche engaged in possible misconduct over an initial proposal to lease 100 Boeing Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BA.N&lt;/A&gt; refueling tankers, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.
Newcastle midfielder Kieron Dyer seems certain to miss England #39;s World Cup qualifiers next month after it was revealed that his hamstring injury could take another four weeks to repair.
BRUSSELS/SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Shareholders gave their blessing on Friday for Belgium's Interbrew &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=INTB.BR target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;INTB.BR&lt;/A&gt; to buy Brazil's AmBev &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMBV4.SA target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMBV4.SA&lt;/A&gt; &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ABV.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;ABV.N&lt;/A&gt; in a deal valued at about 8 billion euros ( $9.7 billion) that will create the world's largest brewer.
AP - Kobe Bryant can go on as a basketball superstar, but his squeaky-clean image is gone forever.
Microsoft Corp. on Friday said it will sacrifice some key advances it had planned for Longhorn so it can deliver the successor to Windows XP in 2006.
BEIJING/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - IBM is selling its PC-making business to China's largest personal computer maker, Lenovo Group Ltd., for $1.25 billion, marking the U.S. giant's retreat from an industry it helped pioneer in 1981.
BANGALORE, INDIA -- Intelis evaluating India as a possible location for a new chip manufacturing facility, the company's chief executive officer, Craig Barrett, told reporters Thursday in Delhi.
Rejuvenated attacker Alessandro Del Piero inspired Juventus to a 2-0 win over AS Roma that restored their five point title advantage on holders AC Milan.
SAN FRANCISCO: Hewlett-Packard Co said on Tuesday its quarterly profit rose 27 as the computer and printer maker saw record revenues in every business and every region and fixed problems with its server and storage unit, sending shares higher by 8.
Undefeated Harvard at Princeton, defending Ivy League champion Penn at Yale, and Atlantic 10 North Division leader Northeastern at Maine highlight today's Division 1-AA New England football schedule.
A tearful Martha Stewart announced today that she wants to begin serving her five-month prison sentence immediately so she can get back to quot;life and living quot; as soon as possible.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger believes Manchester United #39;s title challenge would be strengthened by the signing of England striker Wayne Rooney.
Oil retreated in Asian trade today, but players in the market remained edgy about tight supplies heading into North America's winter heating season.
Atlanta, GA (Sports Network) - Joey Harrington threw for a touchdown and Artose Pinner ran for another score, as the Detroit Lions handed Atlanta its first loss of the season with a 17-10 victory over the Falcons at the Georgia Dome.
China's biggest steelmaker and its second biggest bank put the pieces in place for massive flotations.
A new version of the Zafi e-mail worm is spreading Christmas wishes along with its malicious code, according to antivirus software companies.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Hurricanes Bonnie and Charley slowed U.S. chain store sales growth in the latest week, a report said on Tuesday.
AP - After three seasons away from the NFL, Deion Sanders signed with the Baltimore Ravens on Tuesday.
Tom Coughlin and his staff drilled it into the players last week not to give up if the ball was not caught. The way the play develops, it could be a lateral and a live ball.
rank P. Quattrone, the Wall Street banker whose pay and deals made him a vivid symbol of the 1990 #39;s technology boom, was sentenced to 18 months in prison yesterday for obstructing a government
Sony and IBM are expected to start producing the Cell, a 4GHz chip the two companies have been working together on for the past three years.
African countries have announced a continent-wide plan to slash ivory trading in their domestic markets.
H R Block rival Jackson Hewitt waits for the tax season, and profits, to arrive.
AP - Hey, Shaq, Jerry Buss wants to be buddies again.
CAMBRIDGE -- At a sponsors' meeting of MIT Sloan School's Center for Information Systems Research this week, there was a new project on the research agenda: outsourcing.
Mark Cuban, co-founder and president of HDNet, discusses the world of digital television.
Cardinals closer Jason Isringhausen had successful surgery on his left hip Monday and should be fully recovered in time for spring training.
US blue-chip stocks rose slightly on Friday as government data showed better-than-expected demand in August for durable goods other than transportation equipment, but climbing oil prices limited gains.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - For customers who either love to plan ahead or hate monthly bills, a small Massachusetts telecommunications firm has launched a $999 offer of unlimited Internet-based telephone service for life.
RALEIGH, NC Compared to the kick he made last week, these field goals were easy for Mike Nugent. He certainly made them appear that way.
Sports India, Cricket: Chennai, Oct 11 : Former Supreme Court judge S. Mohan, appointed interim administrator of the Indian cricket board by the Madras High Court, Monday reported to the court about his being locked out of the board #39;s office in Mumbai.
driven by the continuing power struggle in Iraq, by fears for the solvency of the Russian oil giant Yukos, and by surging demand for oil in Asia, notably in China.
Pakistan #39;s seven-wicket win left Kenya #39;s coach Andy Moles feeling crushed and disappointed on his return to Edgbaston yesterday.
STOCKHOLM - Oct. 15, 2004 -en or more years of mobile phone use increases the risk of a rare type of non-cancerous tumor according to a new study.
Reuters - Business software maker PeopleSoft Inc. on Saturday said its board again rejected Oracle Corp.'s #36;9.2 billion tender offer, remaining defiant a day after most of its shares were tendered to Oracle.
Republican gains in the Senate from last month's elections have pumped new life into the administration-backed move to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drilling, prompting environmentalists to mount what one of them called "the fight of our lives" to defeat the proposal.
All those recreational anglers who dangle bait off US coasts are catching a much bigger share of fish -- especially some threatened species -- than commonly thought, researchers report in a new study.
Fannie Mae, the largest US mortgage finance company, will be the subject of an Oct. 6 hearing by the House Financial Services Committee over its accounting and management, said Representative Richard Baker, a Louisiana Republican.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks appeared set to open nearly unchanged to slightly higher on Thursday after a sharp fall in the previous session, with oil prices easing.
Reuters - Vince Carter drilled a tiebreaking three- pointer with 4.8 seconds remaining to lift the Toronto Raptors to a 101-97 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers at Air Canada Center.
Kawika Uechi of Cambridge hacks computers, literally. His favorite tool is an electric rotary handsaw made by Dremel, with a blade that slices neatly through the thin metal of a computer case. But when he was a student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Uechi also used the school's water-jet cutter, a supersonic water pistol that can rip through hardened ...
As if to prove that his age is irrelevant, Penn State Coach Joe Paterno forgot for a moment yesterday exactly how old he is. quot;I don #39;t feel 78 - or 77, quot; said Paterno, who will not turn 78 until Dec. 21.
Businesses that think their employees aren #39;t using IM or some type of peer-to-peer file sharing application may be living in ignorant bliss.
MORE than 20,000 workers and victims rallied across Australia today, pledging to force James Hardie Industries to meet its responsibilities to those suffering asbestos related diseases.
Kenneth Massey is a numbers cruncher with some potentially good news for Auburn football fans. Don #39;t read too much into Auburn #39;s No.
Microsoft will let governments access the computer code behind its Office software as part of a broader campaign to provide alternatives to open-source applications.
JOHANNESBURG (AFP) - South African mining group Harmony has lost the latest round in a hostile takeover of rival Gold Fields when a court rejected an urgent attempt to appeal against a ruling frustrating its bid to create the world #39;s largest gold producer
Musicians believe the internet is an essential tool to help create and market their work, but at the same time more than half of artists say file sharing of unauthorized copies of music should be illegal, according to a new report.
Luke Donald shoots a 4-under-par 68 for a two-stroke lead after three rounds of the Dunhill Links Championship in St. Andrews, Scotland on Saturday.
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan - Olympic field hockey champion Australia pulled out of a December tournament in Pakistan because of security fears.
MOSCOW Yukos, Russias largest oil producer, had another bad news day Friday as its huge tax bill ballooned again. The Tax Ministry raised its claim against Yukos by $700 million for 2001, bringing the total
The organisation behind Firefox is hoping that the open source Web browser can grab 10 per cent of the US market in 2005, it said yesterday.
Whistling Straits has received magnificent reviews during the P.G.A. Championship, which is currently in a three-man playoff between Justin Leonard, Vijay Singh and Chris DiMarco.
Guillermo Canas won his third title of the year yesterday with a 6-1, 6-0 victory over unseeded German Lars Burgsmuller at the ATP Shanghai Open.
Perpendicular recording places bits of data end-to-end, instead of using the traditional method of storing them flat on the disk surface.
DALLAS (AP) -- It's what executives of SBC Communications Inc. (SBC) call their vision for the future: combining voicemail, e-mail and incoming fax messages in one system that can be accessed on the Web or on the phone...
The tech giants are injecting hundreds of millions of dollars into RFID technology, which aims to advance the tracking of items from ho-hum bar codes to smart tags packed with data. &lt;FONT face="verdana,MS Sans Serif,arial,helvetica" size="-2" color="#666666"&gt;&lt;B&gt;-washingtonpost.com&lt;/B&gt;&lt;/FONT&gt;
East Asia #39;s economies are growing at their swiftest pace since before the financial crisis with fewer people than ever living in extreme poverty, according to the latest East Asia and Pacific Regional Update, the World Bank #39;s twice-yearly look at the
IT IS two years since Tim Henman enjoyed top billing at a championship and there, in Basle, he reached the quarter- finals before losing to David Nalbandian.
A cautious approach helped Frenchman Sebastien Loeb to win his first world rallying title on Sunday. Before the Rally of France, Citroen team boss Guy Frequelin
IBM has issued an upgrade of its WebSphere middleware product, adding autonomic troubleshooting capabilities that autmatically detects system problems and recovers Web-based business transactions that would take days to fix manually.
ATLANTA - Nasa #39;s Atlanta-based Institute for Advanced Concepts has a new field of futuristic dreams to nurture - from engineering organisms that could live on Mars to swarms of microscopic satellites to map the Earth.
The deal is valued at about $100 million, but the handset maker will be billed based on actual service consumption.
Environmental Protection Agency officials are linking with IBM Corp. on a major new grid computing program aimed at improved air pollution modeling and environmental risk assessments, and whose grid capabilities may be offered as a service in the future.
December 6, 2004 San Jose, CA and Tokyo, Japan -- Fujitsu Ltd. and Cisco Systems Inc. have reached a fundamental agreement to enter into a strategic alliance focusing on routers and switches that will enable
A dossier purportedly showing the sale of illegal firearms on eBay is to be handed to the home secretary.
England captain David Beckham and Michael Owen, playing at a home from home in Wednesday #39;s friendly against Spain, have points to prove at the Bernabeu.
The new wide area network access routers feature embedded security measures and voice over Internet Protocol.
(Nov. 22, 2004) -- If you go back to September before the season started and looked at the Monday Night Football schedule, this game between New England and Kansas City stood out as one of the premiere matchups.
Vector Ltd., New Zealand #39;s largest electricity distributor, agreed to pay NZ $877 million ( $601 million) for Australian Gas Light Co.
Kellen Winslow Jr #39;s rookie season is over after the Cleveland Browns placed the tight end on injured reserve. Winslow was originally expected to miss eight to 10 weeks with a broken right leg suffered on September 19 against Dallas.
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) - Shares of Vulcan Materials Co lost more than 4 percent of their worth Tuesday, after the company announced it will take a non-cash charge of about 70 cents per share related to an asset sale.
From tail-dragging despair to unabashed joy, Britain #39;s newspapers rebounded on Sunday, swelling with pride after five gold medals in one day erased the pain of the first Olympic week in Athens.
Three former bankers with the UK #39;s NatWest bank were told on Friday that they should be extradited to the US to face fraud charges connected to the collapsed energy company Enron.
After two preseason games in which they played to a virtual draw, Kurt Warner edged ahead of Eli Manning in the Giants' quarterback competition.
TOKYO - Sony Corp. showed Tuesday a smaller book-size PlayStation 2 going on sale worldwide next month that will help the Japanese electronics and entertainment giant cut costs as video-game consoles continue to drop in price.
The NHL pulled the plug on the 2005 All-Star Weekend in Atlanta on Wednesday, but the decision to cancel this February #39;s event because of the lockout doesn #39;t have any effect on the 2006 All-Star festivities scheduled for Glendale Arena.
Bryan Robson is returning to West Bromwich Albion after a 23-year absence. Robson left West Brom in 1981 as one of England #39;s top players to join Manchester United.
AP - Science Applications International Inc. on Wednesday neared an agreement to sell its telecommunications software company, Telcordia Technologies Inc., to two private equity firms for #36;1.35 billion, according to sources familiar with the matter.
Birdman of Belair Mathew Tekulsky waxes on the serendipitous moments when birds and timing alight together for memorable photographs.
AP - Cave explorers discovered a pit inside a mountain range in central Croatia believed to have the world's deepest subterranean vertical drop, at nearly 1,700 feet, a scientific institute reported Monday.
SAN FRANCISCO, SEPTEMBER 22: Peoplesoft Inc will push ahead with a new marketing alliance and other initiatives in the face of a court ruling that raises the chance that Oracle Corps $7.
General Electric Co. and Wachovia Corp. stand to gain the most in new legislation to repeal a $50 billion tax break for US exporters ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization.
&lt;strong&gt;Site Offer&lt;/strong&gt; 12 great guides, 12 great prices
With oil near $50 a barrel, the Bush administration said on Thursday it would negotiate with refineries that want to borrow oil from the federal emergency stockpile to offset supplies disrupted by Hurricane Ivan.
NEW YORK (Sports Network) - The NFL handed down fines to 15 players involved in a scuffle between the Minnesota Vikings and Chicago Bears on Sept. 26.
AP - The University of the District of Columbia canceled its men's and women's basketball seasons Thursday, citing problems with recruitment, academic eligibility and financial aid.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - None of the United States' major trading partners manipulated their currencies to gain economic advantage in the first half of 2004, the U.S. Treasury Department said in a report released on Friday.
The Business of Search Engines and Advertising - Look Out! The major search engines are changing the way they do business with the advertising community. Many SEOs and SEMs have waited patiently for the search engines to recognize the benefits our sector brings. Now that search is sexy however most will ...
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.reuters.co.uk/financeQuoteLookup.jhtml?ticker=DIS.N qtype=sym infotype=info qcat=news"&gt;DIS.N&lt;/A&gt; is increasing investment in video games for hand-held devices and plans to look for acquisitions of small game publishers and developers, Disney consumer products Chairman Andy Mooney said on Monday.
Beleaguered Russian oil giant Yukos on Monday faces a court-imposed deadline to pay a multi-billion dollar tax bill.
Nasa's robotic rover Spirit has found evidence that water washed and altered rocks in the hills it has been exploring on Mars.
The sound you just heard was the other shoe dropping. The noise you detected was that of hearts of the hopeful breaking. Who wants to believe that a massive doping scandal has taken place in several sports?
Heavy consumer spending in the United States strains the global economy and also sustains it.
During every break in play, every timeout, every chance to catch a breath, one word was on the minds of the Penn State women #39;s basketball players during the second half of Sunday #39;s game against No.
AP - A woman's effort to assuage her 6-year-old son's fears of his grandfather's ghost by selling it on eBay has drawn more than 34 bids with a top offer of #36;78.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - If retirement fears were color-coded, they would be somewhere between orange and red right now.
World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. nearly tripled its first-quarter profit on higher revenue from airing two more pay-per-view television events than last year, but was slammed by declining live-event attendance
Global crude oil prices rose on Monday after gunmen stormed a US consulate in Saudi Arabia, arresting a three-day, 13-percent price slide.
The average level of a deadly form of air pollution dropped in the US from 1999 to 2003 as new pollution controls made strides in battling the nation #39;s air quality problem, the Environmental Protection Agency said Tuesday.
A rash of injuries struck the US Open men #39;s draw on Monday, with Nicolas Kiefer succumbing to a wrist injury, Sargis Sargsian fighting through knee trouble
COLES Myer was weighing up its options last night as the ding-dong auction for pubs group Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality got dirty.
With the Incredibles atop the movie charts, superheroes are flying higher than ever. Now one expert says some superpowers are not exactly far-fetched.
Hitachi Data Systems has announced a new enterprise storage lineup to include features such as a virtualisation which allows customers to manage up to 32Petabytes of internal and external storage.
Englishman Lee Westwood is leading after the third round of the Nedbank Challenge in Sun City. Westwood holds a slender one shot lead over South African Retief Goosen after shooting one under par 71 for a three round total of 5 under par.
Reuters - Oil prices steadied above #36;45 a barrel on Thursday, attempting to put a floor under a 7.4 percent tumble after a big increase in U.S. heating oil stocks eased worries of a winter supply squeeze.
Randy Moss left Vikings practice Thursday afternoon with a sore ankle, but the All-Pro wide receiver isn #39;t expected to miss any action Sunday at Houston.
The Athens Olympics will cost a total of almost 10 billion euros ( $12.1 billion), more than double the original target, pushing Greece #39;s budget gap well above EU limits, finance ministry sources said on Wednesday.
VIENNA, Austria - American Robby Ginepri advanced to the quarterfinals of the CA Trophy with a 6-2, 6-1 win Thursday over fifth-seeded Paradorn Srichaphan of Thailand.
Recreational vehicle maker Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO.N: Quote, Profile, Research) reported stronger-than-expected quarterly earnings on Thursday as more people
Seagate has launched the highest capacity PC hard disk to date. Pitched at desktop computers, the new Barracuda 7200.8 hard disk is a 7200rpm model that #39;s available with either a fast SATA or Ultra ATA interface
PC World - Health industry, tech firms, government agencies might collaborate to build a secure database of patient records.
Based on their finishes in the last two MLS regular seasons, the Revolution could be in a position of strength. Though the Revolution (5-11-9) are in last place in the overall standings, their recent track record in the final five games of the season provides hope.
NewsFactor - Yahoo (Nasdaq: YHOO) is rolling out wireless search capabilities, extending the Internet portal's desktop services to the mobile masses and attempting to hold off the challenge from search-engine giant Google.
Britain #39;s Chris Draper and Simon Hiscocks have cruised to Olympic bronze in the open 49er class. Hiscocks won silver with Ian Barker four years ago when the high performance 49ers made their Olympic debut in Sydney.
WASHINGTON -- Texas researchers will begin clinical trials of a candidate vaccine against the deadly toxin ricin, a biological agent that can only be tested in select labs.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Sony Corp., the world leader in video equipment, finds itself in the unusual position of playing catch-up in the next battleground for technology used in cameras, video recorders and phones.
Shares in The Boeing Co. hit a one-year high Wednesday on news that the aircraft builder has received an order to build 18 777-300 ER (extended range) airplanes for Singapore Airlines, with the airline also
What do women want? Luciano Manganella, the owner of the trendy Boston women's boutique JasmineSola, has a pretty good idea. And now after 34 years in business, he's plotting a major expansion.
Scientists have shown that it is possible to vanish into a pile of completely dry sand just as easily as traditional quicksand.
BEA Systems at the ApacheCon conference in Las Vegas on Monday is adding the Jonas and Geronimo application servers as platforms supporting the Project Beehive open source development initiative.
Orlando Magic #39;s Steve Francis (3) drives to the basket in front of New Orleans Hornets #39; Baron Davis (1) in first half of a preseason game at the Mississippi Coast Coliseum in Biloxi, Miss.
Reuters - Stalking teddy bears and towels before retiring to harass the family dog, 12-week-old cheetah cub Bunjee was blissfully unconcerned by the cameras trailing him around the Heidenreichs' house.
com staff writers. Bruno Junqueira did what he had to, the Brazilian scored the victory in the penultimate round of the 2004 Champ Car World Series, taking the fight for the drivers #39; championship to Mexico City.
By a curious twist of fate, the job of rescuing Russian oil giant Yukos has fallen to an American who arrived in Moscow just over a year ago -- and who still needs a translator #39;s help.
Second-seeded Andre Agassi, looking for his 18th masters title, edged Max Mirnyi of Belarus 7-6 (5), 6-3 Tuesday in the second round of the US $3 million Madrid Masters.
Last night marked the first anniversary of Danny Ainge's bold, six-player trade with Cleveland in which Ricky Davis was the obvious attraction. The move generated plenty of controversy at the time, eventually cost the Celtics the services of Jim O'Brien and Dick Harter , ended a five-game winning streak, and now only Davis remains on the active roster of either ...
MacCentral - RealNetworks Inc. said on Tuesday that it has sold more than a million songs at its online music store since slashing prices last week as part of a limited-time sale aimed at growing the user base of its new digital media software.
ATLANTA - Fifty-year-old Jay Haas does not quite need a walking stick, but he is easily the oldest man in the field at the Tour Championship.
An asteroid named after a Celtic god of war will this week make its closest journey past Earth for 651 years. The space rock known as Toutatis will come within 960,000 miles (about 1.5 million km) of Earth on Wednesday.
LAS VEGAS - The parent company of Nevada #39;s two major electric utilities has won a rehearing of a federal bankruptcy court ruling that said it owed more than $300 million to energy trader Enron Power Marketing.
Manager Rafael Benitez is opposed to Liverpool sharing their proposed new stadium with city rivals Everton. Officials from the two Premier League clubs
Giants defensive end Michael Strahan is done for the year and will be joined on the inactive list for the remainder of the season by the team #39;s other starting defensive end Keith Washington.
Purdue senior quarterback Kyle Orton demolished both a secondary and a streak as he led the 15th-ranked Boilermakers to a 41-16 victory over Notre Dame (3-2).
Germany's third-largest city decided to equip 14,000 computers with Linux and other open-source office apps, despite concerns about patent infringements raised in the debate over new European Union patent laws.
SPACE.com - A nearby star thought to harbor comets and asteroids now appears to be home to planets, too. The presumed worlds are smaller than Jupiter and could be as tiny as Pluto, new observations suggest.
LOS ANGELES (AFP) -- The world's first private manned spacecraft will make its second space flight in five days Monday in the final stage of its attempt to win a 10 million USD prize, organisers said. SpaceShipOne is scheduled to take off at around 7:00 am (1400 GMT) and blast out of the earth's atmosphere just over an hour later in its quest for the Ansari X Prize purse, aimed at spurring a new era of commercial space travel...
The Titans won without running back Chris Brown, who missed the game with turf toe. They won with two rookies starting at defensive tackle.
SPACE.com - DENVER, COLORADO -- Those twin robots hard at work on Mars have transmitted teasing views that reinforce the prospect that microbial life may exist on the red planet.
Martha Stewart is urging an appeals court to overturn her conviction because she was quot;tarred quot; by prosecutors #39; implications she committed the uncharged crime of insider
Airline stocks moved slightly higher Tuesday on hopes fuel costs might become more manageable after the head of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said crude oil prices would likely retreat in the next few months.
Viacom Inc. said Tuesday it will sell a radio station to Spanish Broadcasting System Inc. for a 10 percent stake in SBS, marking Viacom #39;s entry into the US Hispanic radio market.
OTTAWA - The Canadian government will devote some of the proceeds from its sale of its 19 percent stake in oil company Petro-Canada (PCA.
The Red Sox right-hander has recorded automated phone calls that will be made in New Hampshire, Maine, and Pennsylvania through Tuesday, Election Day.
Flying solo around the globe non-stop has been hailed as the last great aviation challenge on earth by Sir Richard Branson, who has put more than 1 million into the project.
Nissan Motor Co. #39;s chief executive said Thursday that the Japanese automaker was hurt more than its rivals by the recent steel shortage, and that production is expected to fall short by 15,000 vehicles in March next year.
Various investigations into an alleged $180 million bribery scandal in Nigeria involving a Halliburton Co. subsidiary and other companies have indicated that payments may have been made to Nigerian officials, the company said in a regulatory filing.
Fraudulent phishing e-mail is forcing businesses to reconsider how they communicate with their customers online. Join Dave Jevans, chairman of the Anti-Phishing Working Group, as he discusses this growing form of online fraud with washingtonpost.com reporter Brian Krebs.
and they would surely like to - the Knicks could look over their shoulders at mid-November and feel mildly satisfied. In the two-week span from Nov.
There's never been a question they can hit it far, but John Daly and Hank Kuehne are doing their best to prove there's more substance to their golf. Playing in different parts of the world this weekend, Daly (tied for sixth at the BMW Open in Germany) and Kuehne (third at the Buick Championship in Cromwell, Conn.) have reached the ...
A Spanish supercomputer built by IBM has captured the world speed record for a machine using standard blade servers.
Three weeks does not a season make, but it's enough of an indicator to form opinions strong enough to put into motion.
Reuters - United Airlines is expected to ask a bankruptcy judge to let it extract new concessions worth #36;725 million a year from employees as it seeks to reorganize, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday, citing unnamed sources.
It #39;s not exactly an earth-shaking development but I expect that Wired News #39; very public announcement that it would no longer capitalize quot;Internet, quot; quot;Web quot; or quot;Net quot; will provoke some discussion and debate in online publishing circles.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - No 2. U.S. book retailer Borders Group Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BGP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BGP.N&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday posted a quarterly loss versus a year-ago profit, hurt by sluggish store traffic and a slowdown in sales of bestsellers.
Global trade is set to grow by 8.5 in real terms this year despite soaring oil prices, the World Trade Organisation says.
NEW YORK Stocks rose slightly on Friday as a rise in consumer confidence was offset by an unexpected jump in US producer prices, spurring inflation concerns.
World rugby league champion Australia beat the USA Tomahawks 36-24 in Philadelphia, rallying from an 18- point halftime deficit to avoid one of the biggest upsets in the sport #39;s history.
As the Raptors were falling 90-86 in overtime to the defending champion Detroit Pistons last night before a sellout crowd of 22,076 at the Palace in Auburn Hills, Mich.
In financial documents filed with the SEC, Sun Microsoystems said its net income for the quarter that ended June 30 had been revised downward by $12 million and 1 cent per share.
Forbes.com - Editors: Shlomo Reifman and Samantha N. Wong Researchers: Joshua Brandt, Fei Mei Chan, Andrew T. Gillies, Soo Jeong, Edward Knudsen, Artie Kwok, John Ray and Jody Yen Programmer: Carl Subick
A good subplot can be one of the most intriguing parts of a sports story. Sammy Sosa chasing Mark McGwire while the Cardinals chased the Cubs. Shaq and Kobe feuding while the Lakers ran off three consecutive championships.
Casual dining chain Steak n Shake Co. reported Wednesday that fourth-quarter earnings doubled while same-store sales of company-owned restaurants increased for the period.
Bernhard Langer, who captained Europe #39;s Ryder Cup team to last month #39;s surprise victory against the US, eliminated world No.
For the first time in 20 years, an American woman did not win gold in the 100m dash. On Saturday that honor went to Yuliya Nesterenko of Belarus.
A STUNNING injury-time Neil Mellor goal gave Liverpool a deserved Premiership win at Anfield today. The defeat was only the second in 55 league games for the champions.
ROME, Nov 10 (SW) - Juventus increased the gap with Milan to six points, beating Fiorentina while the Rossoneri were held to a scoreless draw by Brescia.
The majority of Internet users in the U.S. have ditched dial-up, survey says.
There #39;s no use in arguing about it -- the Grand Theft Auto series for the PlayStation 2 is currently the driving force behind the video game industry.
On Monday morning, when Chris Bourque glanced at his cellphone to see his coach was calling, he had a good idea of what Jack Parker was going to tell him. That day, USA Hockey was informing 10 players that they had been selected to represent their country at the 10-team World Junior Championship later this month in Grand Forks, N.D.
The best performing Dow stock this year is one that #39;s had more than its share of trouble with investors in recent years -- Boeing Co.
Lewis will also join the Kmart Board of Directors. He joins Kmart from YUM! Brands, Inc., where he was president, chief multi-branding and operating officer.
"Eat your spinach," Mom used to say. "It will make your muscles grow, power your laptop and recharge your cell phone... " OK. So nobody's Mom said those last two things. But researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology say they have used spinach to harness a plant's ability to convert sunlight into energy for the first time, creating a device that may one day power laptops, mobile phones and more.
Beginning a season of high expectations, No. 3 Georgia Tech clamped down on Alabama State and pulled away in the second half for a 74-37 victory Friday night.
1015 GMT (Dow Jones) LONDON--European stocks higher driven by gains for oils and mining stocks. Trader says expiration of derivatives contracts or quot;triple witching quot; not having major impact.
OPEC oil producers meeting here this week are likely to clamp down on excess supply has that helped lower prices from record highs and will discuss how much to raise their price target, cartel officials said yesterday.
When Scott Richards is at his home in Portland, Ore., he taps into the Internet using a broadband connection from his office about five miles away.
Mobile gaming company inks a deal to introduce ring tones and games based on the popular 1960s cartoon.
Scotland #39;s caretaker manager Tommy Burns has revealed he was talked out of quitting by Berti Vogts. Burns was Vogts #39; assistant manager and provided advice and support for the whole of the German #39;s ill-fated
com. The National League Championship Series between the Astros and Cardinals may not have the enmity of its American League counterpart.
Original terms of the merger called for Advanced Fibre #39;s stockholders to receive 1.55 Tellabs shares and $7 in cash for each of their shares, in a deal then valued at $1.
BEIJING : The dramatic fall of the dollar against the euro will would have only a muted short-term impact on Europe #39;s largest defense company but if sustained, it would affect future profitability, the head of EADS said.
Portsmouth players have installed goalkeeper Shaka Hislop as favourite to follow Harry Redknapp to south coast rivals Southampton.
Iamgold Corp. shares fell 8.5 percent after South Africa #39;s Gold Fields Ltd. received an unsolicited takeover bid, threatening to scuttle its plan to acquire the Canadian gold producer.
Description: Shoppers and retailers are in the thick of the buying season. But at stores in the Washington, DC, area, retailers are keeping their expectations realistic.
Microsoft will let customers configure the next major release of Windows Server for specific server tasks, rather than selling a host of different Windows Server Longhorn editions tailored to those tasks.
Conrad Black, the embattled press baron, said Thursday he would give up his posts as CEO and chairman of Hollinger Inc., a Canadian holding company, to ease his plan to take the company private.
Reuters - Climate experts at NASA believe they have found a way of forecasting droughts and floods months in advance, the New Scientist magazine reported on Wednesday.
If you are looking for the most interesting fallout from the mutual fund scandals of the past year, don't go looking in old headlines. Look instead at some fairly new court cases.
Reuters - Over the next three days, in eight languages and 27 countries, Microsoft Corp. will release its most important program of 2004 -- not a new version of Windows or Office, but an epic tale of a super-soldier defending the Earth from a mysterious alien force.
Marks amp; Spencer says its sales are continuing to slide, for which it blames a poor performance for its summer clothing lines and homeware products that are too contemporary for its customers.
A royal reception awaited the new 49er Olympic Champions as Iker Martinez and Xabier Fernandez stepped ashore after the last race of the regatta yestrday.
Toronto has now dropped seven straight and is just 1-8 all-time at ARCO...Sacramento improved to 15-5 in its home opener since the 1985-86 season...Sacramento took both meetings with the Raptors last season and has won nine of the last 10...Toronto #39;s only
NEW YORK -- As reported by Reuters: quot;A scuttled deal to rebuild Donald Trump #39;s casino empire on Thursday left the star of quot;The Apprentice quot; optimistic he could forge a new agreement, but bond analysts were wary of the prospects for the money-losing
Radio One Inc.'s chief executive said Thursday he is lobbying District officials to support a plan to move his company's headquarters from Maryland to the District.
PURCHASE, NY -- PepsiCo Inc. #39;s net income rose 35 percent in its latest quarter from a year ago, helped by growth in beverage and snack volume, as well as a tax benefit.
The update uses stronger encryption and does a better job of letting only authorised users join wireless nets. The improvements have been made to re-assure businesses that wi-fi networks can be made safe enough to be really useful and widely deployed.
Reuters - U.S. troops increasingly rely on data collected by satellites, but the intelligence and military communities lack a process for coordinating which technologies to fund, an Air Force official said on Tuesday.
With four interceptions and seven turnovers in Sunday's loss to the Giants, quarterbacks Mark Brunell and Patrick Ramsey take the shots for the team's sloppy showing.
You might know him best as the founder of MP3.com or the guy behind Lindows (or Linspire or whatever they #39;re calling it now), but Michael Robertson has another company up his sleeve called SIPphone.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar firmed on Wednesday as investors awaited comments from the Federal Reserve chief that are expected to point to further rises in U.S. interest rates this year.
The coming presidential election is sure to be about as close as they come, and technology is at the heart of much of the surrounding discussion.
Arsenal striker Thierry Henry insists that winning trophies at the end of the season is more important than setting records at the start.
This one lacked the pathos of Sunday #39;s marathon but it was another sad and bewildering early departure for Paula Radcliffe, who managed only 16 circuits in the 25-lap women #39;s 10,000 metres
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Eric Shelton ran for 129 yards and tied a Louisville record with five touchdowns on the ground yesterday to lead the No. 22 Cardinals to a 59-7 win over East Carolina.
Australia #39;s Lleyton Hewitt further fine-tuned his game ahead of the US Open with a convincing 6-3 6-4 win over Gilles Muller to capture the $US500,000 ( $A692,377) Washington Open.
AP - Dry Falls lives up to its name. Not a drop of water cascades down the 500-foot cliffs at this arid, rocky place near Grand Coulee Dam.
A PBS documentary makes the case that Americans have tuned out marketers pitching everything from cars to candidates. The result: even more crass attempts to get through, and a fragmentation of American society. By Jason Silverman.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Quiznos Sub, the third-largest U.S. sandwich chain, said on Wednesday it signed a deal to serve PepsiCo Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PEP.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PEP.N&lt;/A&gt; drinks in its U.S. outlets, ending a 23-year relationship with Coca-Cola Co. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=KO.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;KO.N&lt;/A&gt;
AC Milan and Barcelona joined the other powerhouses in the second round of the Champions League on Wednesday while Arsenal had two players sent off in a fourth tie in a row and still isn #39;t there yet.
WIMBLEDON champion Maria Sharapova capped her stunning year by overcoming an injured Serena Williams 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 in the final of the season-ending WTA Tour Championships in Los Angeles yesterday.
Peyton Manning tosses four touchdown passes and Edgerrin James punishes the Bears' defense with 204 yards as the Colts roll to a 41-10 victory Sunday.
MacCentral - Virginia Tech's all-Mac System X supercomputer, installed at the university's Terascale Computing Facility, made headlines last year when it was determined to be the third-fastest supercomputer in the world. System X has been upgraded to Apple Computer Inc.'s Xserve G5 server and now runs even faster, with a sustained speed of 12.25 trillion operations per second -- 19 percent faster than before.
Web surfers in London, Paris, Oslo and Taipei encountered a "403 Forbidden" access-denied error page when they tried to contact Bush's Web site.
The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, said late Wednesday that it would probably not meet its revenue forecasts for the busy August travel season because
ANAHEIM, Calif. (Ticker) -- The Seattle Mariners, desperate to add pop to their anemic lineup, reportedly have come to terms on a four-year contract with slugger Richie Sexson.
In the late 1980s, developers were breaking ground for new shopping centers in the United States at the rate of four a day. In 2004, only three regional malls are expected to open the whole year.
After seeing little success with the reference designs it created for Microsoft #39;s smartphone platform, Intel will now work with Symbian to create reference platforms for 3G handsets.
Systems, which start as low as $500, don't require advanced IT skills.
Reuters - New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer on Tuesday said his office has created an interactive Web site to help New Yorkers comparison shop for prescription drugs, following a statewide survey showing widely varying prices at pharmacies.
NEW YORK, (Sports Network) - The New York Yankees and New York Mets swapped lefthanded relievers on Friday, with the Yankees shipping Felix Heredia across the East River in exchange for Mike Stanton and cash considerations.
New boss Martin Jol continued Tottenham #39;s fightback against Jacques Santini as he insisted Spurs had been heading down a quot;dead-end street quot; under their defence-minded former coach.
NASA investigators now have the most detailed pictures ever taken of Titan. But the images can't penetrate the mystery that surrounds the Saturnian moon. By Amit Asaravala.
Hong Kongs gross domestic product rose 7.2 per cent year-on-year in the third quarter as strong trade flows and tourist spending continued to drive its recovery from the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome last year.
Asset manager Federated Investors (FII.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday reported lower quarterly profits as the firm #39;s assets declined in difficult market conditions.
For five weeks, they put a clamp on their feelings. They wanted to grieve, knew the time would come when they would be able to grieve, but also understood the time was not yet at hand.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks pointed to a slightly higher open on Monday as investors seek bargains and oil prices stay below last week's record high of nearly $50 a barrel.
roundup Plus: Oracle gives PeopleSoft shareholders more time...Cisco reports access control server flaws...Toshiba tinkers with Wi-Fi for TV.
Time Warner Inc. will pay $210 million to settle charges that its America Online unit fraudulently inflated its revenue figures. Separately, it is expected to pay about $300 million to settle SEC charges related to its buyout of a stake held by Germany's Bertelsmann AG in AOL Europe.
With the JBoss deal, Hewlett-Packard gets middleware, a business it abandoned two years ago when it dumped its Bluestone Software after buying the company in 2000.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A federal appeals court on Thursday delivered a stinging blow to the anti-piracy efforts of major movie studios and music companies by ruling several Internet file-sharing software companies are not liable for copyright infringement.
The Kansas City Chiefs were a confident bunch even sporting an 0-3 mark coming into Baltimore. But by outmuscling the Ravens, the Chiefs have new life.
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO.O: Quote, Profile, Research) , the biggest maker of network gear for directing Internet traffic, on Monday said it will introduce a new line of low-end routers
AP - Computer-savvy consumers did plenty of online shopping over the Thanksgiving weekend, giving companies like Amazon.com and walmart.com the same kickoff to the holiday season as department stores and malls had.
Bryant, in a taped interview on ESPN #39;s quot;Pardon the Interruption quot; on Wednesday, did not elaborate much further about Malone, who was accused of making a pass at Bryant #39;s wife, Vanessa, at a Lakers game on Nov. 23.
Bruce McDonald, a little-known Zimbabwean, took the first-round lead on 66 in the European Tour #39;s Dunhill Championship at Leopard Creek Country Club.
Reuters - Kroger Co. , the top U.S. grocer, on Tuesday said quarterly profit rose 29 percent as it kept a tight rein on expenses and sales rebounded.
Looks like Martha Stewart #39;s time in the slammer will be something of a cakewalk. The homemaking maven, also known as inmate 55170-054, has been assigned to her third choice of prison, in Alderson
Sony this week unveiled its new Cyber-shot DSC-M1 digital camera that features a swivel screen design that can automatically record video while snapping pictures.
Reuters - U.S. blue-chips closed at six-week highs on Friday, helped by reassuring consumer confidence data and a bounce in technology stocks, but volume was extremely thin before next week's Republican convention in New York City.
After a week of well-deserved criticism, Lycos is abandoning its scheme to launch denial-of-service attacks against spammy websites. Did the company reform in time to avoid criminal prosecution?
The United States supports a quot;strong dollar, quot; Treasury Secretary John Snow said, while suggesting the Bush administration will not act to boost its value. His comments sent the currency plunging to a record low against the euro.
London - Arsenal #39;s fury at Manchester United #39;s 2-0 win in the English Premiership on Sunday spilled over into the papers on Monday with the Gunners #39; manager Arsene Wenger #39;s claiming they had been cheated.
Reuters - Pfizer Inc. said on Monday it plans to sponsor a major clinical study to further assess the cardiovascular safety of its arthritis drug Celebrex following the withdrawal of Merck Co.'s Vioxx, a drug in the same class.
Notable news and announcements from the web search world during the past month.
Researchers claim to have solved the mystery of the people who simply do not count. It could be because they are lost for words. The Piraha of the Amazon have almost legendary status in language research.
AP - Jordan Brower struck out eight batters and knocked in the winning run to lead Thousand Oaks, Calif., into the United States semifinals with a 3-1 win over Lincoln, R.I., at the Little League World Series on Tuesday.
European Space Agency -- 'Consensus on conditions in the cloud of interstellar gas surrounding the Sun from several in-situ observation methods' Through coordinated observations with instruments on several ESA and NASA spacecraft and a collaborative analysis effort hosted by the International Space Science Institute (ISSI) an international team of scientists has compiled for the first time a consistent set of the physical parameters of helium in the very local interstellar gas cloud the surrounds the solar system. Careful analysis of data from three complementary observation methods produced a reliable set of physical parameters for the local cloud which can be used to model the interaction between the Sun and the surrounding interstellar gas and establish dimensions of the solar system...
As he headed by car to JFK airport Saturday evening to fly to Lausanne, Switzerland, to defend his Olympic all-around championship before the Court of Arbitration for Sport, gymnast Paul Hamm was calm and collected.
Shopping search engines make it easy for people to research and buy products. They can also be a powerful and cost-effective customer acquisition channel for merchants.
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress yesterday that the economy has quot;regained some traction quot; after a lull in late spring, reinforcing expectations of higher
AP - Former No. 1 player Justine Henin-Hardenne ended her Monday season because of continued problems with an energy-sapping virus. The blood disorder weakened her since April although she won the singles gold medal at the Olympics.
World record holder Paula Radcliffe will race back into the spotlight at the New York Marathon when she returns to action for the first time since her stunning collapse at the Athens Olympic Games.
AP - Go to Google, search and scroll results, click and copy. When students do research online these days, many educators worry, those are often about the only steps they take. If they can avoid a trip to the library at all, many students gladly will.
LONDON (Reuters) - World oil prices surged a dollar on Friday on worries that the ongoing storm season in the U.S. Gulf would continue to hamper energy production and imports, delaying vital pre-winter stock building.
Tokyo stocks dipped Monday morning as investors took profits from recent gains. The US dollar was down against the Japanese yen. The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 issues fell 24.
Shares of La Jolla Pharmaceutical Co. plunged more than 50 percent Friday after the Food and Drug Administration told the drug developer it needs to conduct another study of its lead drug candidate, a lupus treatment called Riquent, prior to approval.
A panel of leading computer scientists has warned in a report that unless the US government significantly increases support for advanced research on supercomputing, the United States will be unable to retain its lead on that technological front.
ORCHARD PARK, NYIn a town that made its culinary reputation on leftover chicken meat, pretty doesn #39;t count for much. Buffalo is a working class town and nobody at a sold out Ralph Wilson Stadium yesterday
The costs of imported goods rose less in November than a month earlier, restrained by a drop in petroleum prices that may help boost consumer spending and the US economy.
As Indy car seasons go, it was not a great one for legendary car owner Roger Penske. So the Penske people whooped it up big time on Sunday when two-time Indianapolis 500
Lesa Martin and Jaunee Perry work for different school districts, but they have two things in common. Both women are dedicated teachers who strive to inspire and enrich the lives
Computer-security companies TruSecure Corp. and Betrusted Holdings Inc. said last week they would merge to create a new company called Cybertrust that would sell a portfolio
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (Reuters) - Was absenteeism a little high on Tuesday among the guys at the office? EA Sports would like to think it was because "Madden NFL 2005" came out that day, and some fans of the football simulation are rabid enough to take a sick day to play it.
Germany fueled mounting speculation over the future independence of French defense firm Thales on Monday, saying Thales and Airbus parent EADS would
Responding to a tough insurance industry crash test, automakers are making major strides to improve the safety of family sedans, according to new data released Sunday.
Microsoft UK is offering FREE licensed copies of Windows XP to anyone who is willing to give up their counterfeit copies in exchange.
A database of badger DNA is being created to help catch people who illegally bait the animals and dig their setts.
For some people, it #39;s going to the dentist or even the doctor. For others, it #39;s a bumpy plane ride or even something more down to earth, like that household chore which comes around a little too often.
While it waits for a federal court to rule on its hostile bid for PeopleSoft, Oracle (Quote, Chart) is keeping the deal in play. The database giant extended its previously announced tender offer of $21 for
International Business Machines Corp. has shut its cash-balance pension plan to new employees, CBSMarketwatch.com reports. Instead, new employees can contribute 6 percent of their
The World Trade Organisation confirmed two separate rulings Wednesday outlawing farm subsidies paid by the United States to cotton farmers and by the European Union to its sugar producers.
When he finally flopped into bed well after 2 in the morning, naturally Red Sox manager Terry Francona couldn't sleep. His brain kicked into overdrive as soon as he lay down, and as the details of Game 1 of the World Series whirred through his head at near warp speed, he remained stuck on one particular juncture of the victory ...
Following are some of the notable technology-related events scheduled for the week of Aug. 15. Apple Computer fans are dishing the scuttlebutt this week.
Reuters - U.S. oil prices were slightly softer on Monday after a four-day break, but the threat of a cold winter stretching persistently low global heating oil inventories kept the market within sight of #36;50 a barrel.
U.S. oil major ConocoPhillips is seeking to buy up to 25 percent in Russian oil giant LUKOIL &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LKOH.RTS target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LKOH.RTS&lt;/A&gt;, booking billions of barrels of new reserves, an industry source familiar with the matter said on Friday. ConocoPhillips shares closed at $72.70 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Reuters - Yum Brands Inc. on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose 13 percent and raised its profit forecast for the year as strong sales at its fast-food chains helped offset a run-up in commodity costs.
Drug stocks across the board fell amid renewed safety concerns over a class of blockbuster drugs used to treat arthritis. Preprint articles published on the New England Journal of Medicine #39;s Web site Wednesday
: ConocoPhillips said on Wednesday it was seeking 20 per cent in Russias LUKOIL in a far-reaching alliance opening the way for the two oil majors to tap vast reserves in northern Russia and Iraq.
BRUSSELS, Dec 6 (SW) - The Belgian Raymond Goethals, former coach of Standard Liege, RSC Anderlecht and Olympique de Marseille, has died at the age of 83.
LeBron James had 26 points to become the youngest player in National Basketball Association history to score 2,000 points as the Cleveland Cavaliers eased to a 96-74 home win over the Chicago Bulls Saturday.
Instead of using a chemical rocket, SMART-1 fires a stream of electrically charged atoms of Xenon gas. A similar idea was used by the makers of Star Trek as part of the Starship Enterprise #39;s propulsion system.
SAN FRANCISCO - U.S. wireless operators have created a plan for MMS (Multimedia Messaging Services) interoperability across networks, the Cellular Telecommunications Internet Association (CTIA) announced Tuesday.
Charlotte, NC -- LeBron James poured in a game-high 19 points and Jeff McInnis scored 18 as the Cleveland Cavaliers routed the Charlotte Bobcats, 106-89, at the Charlotte Coliseum.
World Cup final revenge for Australia or quot;payback time quot; for England #39;s June humiliation in Brisbane -- either cap fits for Twickenham #39;s mouth-watering Saturday showdown between the best of rugby enemies.
Boeing Co, the world #39;s second-biggest maker of commercial aircraft, won a $3.6 billion order for 18 planes from Singapore Airlines Ltd.
Mobile operator 02 #39;s parent mmO2 has this morning announced the launch its third-generation European data network. The network will incorporate HSDPA (high-speed downlink packet access) technology and IMS
FOR Celtic chairman Brian Quinn there is simply no hiding place from reminders of what has to be done. That includes when he is sitting watching his side win 2-0 at Dunfermline to reclaim top spot in the SPL.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission is still in talks with Oracle Corp &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;ORCL.O&lt;/A&gt; over its plan to take over rival software firm PeopleSoft Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PSFT.O&lt;/A&gt;, but aims to take a decision before the end of October, a Commission spokeswoman said on Friday.
IBMand Sybasehave teamed to add support for Sybase's database software on IBM's eServer OpenPower Linux servers. The two companies said they will jointly sell and market their products.&lt;p&gt;ADVERTISEMENT&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;&lt;img src="http://ad.doubleclick.net/ad/idg.us.ifw.general/solaris;sz=1x1;ord=200301151450?" width="1" height="1" border="0"/&gt;&lt;a href="http://ad.doubleclick.net/clk;12204780;10550054;n?http://ad.doubleclick.net/clk;12165994;10522295;g?http://www.sun.com/solaris10"&gt;Solaris 10(TM) OS: Position your business ten moves ahead.&lt;/a&gt;&lt;br/&gt;Solaris 10 OS has arrived and provides even more reasons for the world's most demanding businesses to operate on this, the leading UNIX platform. Like the fact you can run Linux and Solaris applications side-by-side and run the same OS on SPARC(R), AMD Opteron(TM), and Intel processor-based systems. Discover more reasons and how Solaris 10 OS can move your business ahead today.&lt;/p&gt;
1. According to published reports, the source of the recent feud between Kobe Bryant and Karl Malone is that Kobe is accusing the Mailman of making a pass at his wife, Vanessa, at a Lakers game last month.
The World Trade Organization imposed penalties yesterday on exports ranging from apples to textiles, escalating a trade dispute the Bush administration has tried to defuse by unsuccessfully urging Congress to repeal legislation aimed at protecting US steel makers.
Advanced Micro Devices #39; new Mobile Sempron processor gives the company a fresh chip for the holiday season, but it probably won #39;t help it overcome the solid advantage that rival Intel holds in the notebook market.
HELSINKINokia Corp.s new Nokia Remote Camera wireless home monitoring solution features an integrated motion detector and video capture with sound.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks looked set to open lower on Monday amid investor concern that high energy costs will squeeze corporate profits and consumer spending.
When you have spent the last two months staring grimly at your own navel, the need for a victory - any victory - assumes desperate proportions.
Kevin Garnett narrowly misses a triple-double with 35 points, 18 rebounds and nine assists as Minnesota outlasts Sacramento, 113-105, on Friday night.
The Greek sprinters Kostadinos Kederis and Ekaterina Thanou face possible jail sentences after being charged with avoiding a drug test on the eve of this summer #39;s Olympics and faking a motorcycle accident several hours later.
Hard-drive video recorders support HDTV, while Blu-ray and HD-DVD wait in the wings. Plus: pricey headphones and cheap megapixels.
KIRKLAND -- Ken Lucas returned to Seattle late yesterday after spending Sunday night in a Bay Area hospital because of a bruised lung.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Dirk Nowitzki had 32 points and 13 rebounds while Jerry Stackhouse scored 28 points against his former team as the Dallas Mavericks eased to a 122-113 road win over the Washington Wizards Sunday.
Second seed Elena Dementieva #39;s hopes of a first title in 2004 ended in double-quick time when she was hammered 6-1 6-1 by fellow Russian Elena Bovina in the semifinals of the WTA New Haven Open.
Led by General Motors Corp., the US automotive industry rebounded in September with one of its most robust months of the year. Sales were pushed up by 2005 models
NEW YORK, November 30 (newratings.com) - Sun Microsystems (SUNW.NAS) has agreed to acquire SevenSpace Inc, a closely held technology services company, for an undisclosed amount.
Andy Roddick and Roger Federer both found themselves mired in three-set struggles Tuesday night at the Olympics.
Reuters - Indiana Pacers forward Ron Artest has admitted that he regrets charging into the stands to fight Detroit Pistons fans last Friday, sparking an ugly brawl that led to his suspension for the rest of the season.
Energy drink company Red Bull is set to take over the Jaguar Formula One team, a report says.
AP - PalmSource Inc. has finally answered the smart-phone call.
Grocery store chain Kroger Co. said Friday that its grocery and meat employees in the Seattle area approved a new three-year labor contract.
According to the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment, the quot;Arctic climate is now warming rapidly and much larger changes are projected.
The company #39;s chief financial officer said he won #39;t return until he learns whether the government is planning charges against him.
DoCoMo previously procured FOMA handsets only from domestic manufacturers. The two companies -- Motorola and DoCoMo -- said they aim to market the new handset from next spring targeting business users.
AMERICAN INTERNET advertising revenues have increased by more than 40 per cent in the first six months of this year. According to bean counters Price Waterhouse Coopers, US revenues for the first six months
Department store group House of Fraser was today poised for a 25 million boost from a partnership with Barclaycard to run its store card scheme.
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (Sports Network) - New Jersey Nets guard Ron Mercer is scheduled to have surgery Monday on his left knee and could be out of action for up to four weeks.
OTTAWA - A Canadian inventor has designed a computer mouse steered by movements of the nose and eyelids. The invention, dubbed a quot;Nouse, quot; is meant to help people with a disability use a computer.
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies and Hewlett Packard yesterday announced availability of what they claim are the industry #39;s first storage and server systems offering 300GB Fibre Channel and small computer system interface (SCSI) disk drive capacity.
The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on Wednesday kicked off efforts that could reshape the communications services available to airline passengers, deciding to auction off spectrum now set aside for air-to-ground phone service and proposing to relax its ban on the use of cellular phones in flight.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--Australian Gas Light Co. (AGL.AU) said Thursday that it will most likely sell its 66 stake in New Zealand #39;s NGC Holdings Ltd.
Tom Brady threw two touchdown passes and Adam Vinatieri kicked five field goals to lead the New England Patriots past the Buffalo Bills, 29-6, Sunday night.
NEW YORK (Ticker) - It appears Joe Torre will not have Mel Stottlemyre at his side in 2005. The New York Times is reporting that Stottlemyre, who has served as the pitching coach of the New York Yankees under Torre since 1996, has decided not to return.
Scandal-hit Chen Jiuling, the suspended chief of Singapore-based China Aviation Oil (CAO) was questioned by local police for a second straight day yesterday as the investigation
Green Bay quarterback Brett Favre sustained a concussion in the third quarter of the Packers #39; 14-7 loss to the New York Giants when defensive lineman William Joseph knocked him to the ground.
Scientists successfully inject male monkeys with a protein that renders the chimps temporarily infertile. The research may provide a new birth-control option for men in the next decade.
Kroll Inc., an investigation and risk consulting company owned by Marsh amp; McLennan Cos. Inc. (MMC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , has appointed Simon Freakley as chief executive officer and president.
US mortgage company Fannie Mae should restate its earnings, a move that is likely to put a billion-dollar dent in its accounts, watchdogs say
AP - A suburban Philadelphia company is hoping that a vaccine for anthrax could be lurking in spinach, petunias or Swiss chard.
US search engine Google.com launches a new search service, Google Print, Wednesday (Oct. 6). The service will allow users to search books and help publishers promote their books online for free.
Police in Austin, Texas, want to question a Yorkshire man over allegations that he had sex with a teenage girl he met in an internet chatroom.
PARIS: European shares opened higher on Friday, led by oil heavyweights such as BP ahead of an expected decision by Opec to trim its output.
NEW YORK, October 27 (newratings.com) - Analyst Jay H Gelb of Prudential Financial maintains his quot;underweight quot; rating on Marsh amp; McLennan Companies (MMC.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar steadied broadly on Friday after a swelling U.S. trade deficit and steep oil prices pushed it lower in the previous session, as investors awaited new data about the U.S. economy.
Five new moons have been discovered orbiting the giant planet Neptune.
CALGARY (CP) - Nexen Inc. is restoring its deep-water oil production in the Gulf of Mexico after hurricane Ivan blew through and caused no significant damage to the Calgary-based firm #39;s oil rigs.
Wide adoption of the latest Explorer patch may be hindered because it requires more effort than the typical Windows update. quot;This one #39;s going to take a little more effort, quot; said Ken Dunham of iDefense.
AP - Colin Montgomerie held off Tiger Woods to win a one-day Skins event Sunday. Montgomerie finished with nine skins worth #36;75,000 while Woods had five skins totaling #36;51,000. South Korea's K.J. Choi also collected #36;51,000. South Korea's Se Ri Pak, the only woman competing, missed several chances and ended with no skins.
Software giant Microsoft Corp. developed policies to destroy internal e-mails and other documents crucial to ongoing lawsuits, according to a motion filed by a California software company.
AP - Ichiro Suzuki went 4-for-4 and drove in a career-high five runs, leading the Seattle Mariners to a 16-3 rout of the Kansas City Royals on Tuesday night.
Computer chip maker Infineon Technologies AG posted a 10 percent drop in net profit for the fourth quarter after taking large charges to cover potential civil claims from US and European antitrust actions, the company said Tuesday.
Launched in 2001, Genesis spent more than two years gathering samples of solar wind -- which normally doesn #39;t reach Earth #39;s surface.
Natural gas utility AGL Resources Inc. on Friday said the Securities and Exchange Commission approved its purchase of financially troubled NUI Corp.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Snap-on Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SNA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;SNA.N&lt;/A&gt;, which makes vehicle-repair tools, on Tuesday said third-quarter and full-year earnings would fall short of Wall Street estimates due to high steel prices and weak business in Europe.
Ziff Davis - With a common goal of providing a more constant, smoother and faster development cycle, new technologies are being put directly into Linux kernel 2.6.x.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Asian shares vaulted ahead on Thursday as lower oil prices and strong trade data in Japan boosted investor confidence that global economic growth could be sustained.
Pilot Mike Melvill flew SpaceShipOne to the designated altitude, but on the return to Earth the craft rolled more than 30 times, causing concern on the ground.
Chris Byrd, John Ruiz, Lamon Brewster, and Vitali Klitschko all hold a fraction of the undisputed heavyweight crown, but which of these pugilists can claim legitimately that he is the one true champion?
AP - Tailback U. is back in business. Third-ranked Georgia has found the guy who might just take his place alongside Herschel Walker, Garrison Hearst, Rodney Hampton and Terrell Davis #151; a proud heritage of running backs that seemed about as real as Greek mythology a year ago.
NEW YORK _ Dell Inc. ventured deeper into consumer electronics Thursday, adding plasma televisions to its growing lineup of home-entertainment products.
WASHINGTON--The US government should be prepared to spend freely if it decides to encourage quot;bounty hunters quot; to track down e-mail spammers, the US Federal Trade Commission said Thursday.
com. Beijing #39;s municipal government canceled a $3.5 million deal with Microsoft under pressure from national government officials and in-country rivals, financial sources reported Monday.
Peter Nowak has played in two MLS Cups. He liked the first a lot better. Nowak was the MVP of Major League Soccer #39;s championship game in 1998, assisting on two goals in the Chicago Fire #39;s 2-0 win over DC United.
Russia and France are on track for a meeting in the Fed Cup final in Moscow after both teams took 2-0 leads following the first day of their respective semi-finals.
PUNTA GORDA, Fla. Aug. 19, 2004 It took years for many insurance claims to be paid following Hurricane Andrew in 1992. This time, technology is helping speed along the claims process for residents hardest hit by Hurricane Charley.
EAGLE, Colo. (CBS) Justice, a woman #39;s honor, and an NBA superstar #39;s career and freedom. There is much at stake as jury selection begins Friday in the rape trial of Kobe Bryant.
You know all about phishing scams, right? You know better than to click on a Web link embedded in an e-mail that purports to be from your bank, or to reply to messages requesting your user name and password. But if you think that's enough to protect yourself, think again.
AP - Dwight Freeney always has gotten the attention of offenses.
Cisco Systems is warning customers about security holes in two Access Control Server products that provide user authentication and authorization services for network devices such as firewalls and routers.
TORONTO (CP) - The Toronto stock market was higher Monday morning as energy stocks benefited from the world crude oil price #39;s move above $46 US a barrel.
By Alistair Osborne, Associate City Editor (Filed: 23/11/2004). A high court judge will rule tomorrow whether MyTravel, the troubled package holiday group, can force through an 800m debt-for-equity swap without the consent of its bondholders.
Hold onto your hats, Seattle SuperSonics fans. The 2004-05 NBA season is bound to be a roller-coaster ride. That #39;s our guess, anyway, following the team #39;s wacky first week.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - San Francisco Giants slugger Barry Bonds told a grand jury last year that he unknowingly used substances at the heart of the BALCO steroid scandal, the San Francisco Chronicle reported on Friday.
IBM may need to do some creative deal making in order to sell PC business to China #39;s Lenovo. By Robert Cyran, Breakingviews. LONDON (Breakingviews) - It #39;s no surprise IBM is in talks to sell its PC business
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ -- All-Pro Michael Strahan will miss the rest of the season with a torn muscle in his chest, leaving the New York Giants without both starting defensive ends.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve officials are expected to nudge interest rates up on Tuesday for a fifth time this year, another small step in a campaign to gradually lift borrowing costs before inflation rears its head.
NEW YORK - The barrage of internal controls and enhanced reporting requirements demanded by the US Securities and Exchange Commission has created a climate of quot;disclosure on steroids quot; that has many counsel uncertain and badly stressed about making a
