Communications giant Motorola Inc. said Thursday it received a three-year contract extension from Nextel Communications Inc. to continue supplying telecommunications infrastructure for Nextel #39;s iDEN walkie-talkie phones through 2007.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks rose for a third straight day on Friday in a post-election rally after a government report showed strong jobs growth last month, boosting hopes that the economic recovery is taking hold.
Conservative predictions by the National Weather Service during Hurricane Isabel, communication breakdowns within the agency and confusing bulletins led DC area officials to underestimate the
Reuters - The average U.S. retail price of gasoline fell 2.67 cents in the past two weeks, its first decline since early September due to increased crude oil production, a leading industry analyst said on Sunday.
Fred Couples returns as defending champion and the most successful player in Skins Game history. Tiger Woods comes in as the most popular player in golf, and Adam Scott is the third man in the field because he won The Players Championship in March.
The dollar pared earlier gains versus the yen on Monday as traders took profits following the US currency #39;s advance last week on positive jobs news that raised prospects for an interest rate rise later this month.
CHENNAI, OCTOBER 12: Optimism is what drives Indian cricket, whether or not its rooted to ground realities. So Laxmipathy Balaji, who sits out his home Test in Chennai against the Australians with an injury
AP - Indians shortstop Omar Vizquel and closer Bob Wickman filed for free agency on Friday after the team declined to pick up #36;5 million options on the two veterans earlier this month.
Terry Tiffee hit a go-ahead two-run double in his major league debut to give the Minnesota Twins a 4-2 victory over the Texas Rangers Wednesday night.
AUSTRALIA #39;S ageing cricketers have been promised they will not be axed prematurely after batsman Simon Katich became the fall guy for the second time this year.
Adios, Fiesta. Sayonara, Sugar. Bye-bye, Bowl Championship Series. Gator, why don't you give a call?
The Miami Dolphins plan to play the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday despite the threat of Hurricane Jeanne. The hurricane is expected to hit Florida #39;s east coast this weekend, most likely Sunday morning.
European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet warned on Thursday that persistent high oil prices could stoke inflation and undermine an already slow economic recovery in the eurozone.
With oil prices dropping, stocks rallied to their second consecutive day of sizeable gains today, with the Dow again rising by triple-digits and the Nasdaq turning in the day #39;s best overall performance.
Often, the older a pitcher becomes, the less effective he is on the mound. Roger Clemens apparently didn #39;t get that memo. On Tuesday, the 42-year-old Clemens won an unprecedented
Oil retreated in Asian trade today, but players in the market remained edgy about tight supplies heading into North America's winter heating season.
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said on Tuesday that better management of banking risk and new rules on capital hold the promise of a stronger banking system contributing more to economic growth.
Ouch. That #39;s gotta hurt. Motorola (NYSE: MOT) has crashed into third place in the global mobile handset market behind Samsung.
China #39;s largest personal computer maker, Lenovo Group Ltd., said on Tuesday it was in acquisition talks with a major technology company, which a source familiar with the situation said was IBM.
AP - After falling onto the edge of the judges' table on the landing of his vault, Paul Hamm performed two of the most spectacular routines of his career to win the men's all-around gymnastics title by the closest Olympic margin ever.
New Scotland boss Walter Smith has outlined his plans to improve the team - including approaching previously #39;retired #39; experienced players, continuing Berti Vogts policy of selecting non-Scots born players and reducing the number of friendly matches.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, Japan #39;s largest telephone company, plans to spend 5 trillion yen ( $47 billion) over the next several years to replace its copper data-transmission lines with faster fiber-optic lines, according to
Newcastle midfielder Kieron Dyer seems certain to miss England #39;s World Cup qualifiers next month after it was revealed that his hamstring injury could take another four weeks to repair.
With back-to-back World Cup qualifying games on the line, US team coach Bruce Arena has called in his heavy hitters from overseas.
Didier Drogba hit the winner nine minutes from the end as unbeaten Chelsea broke its scoring drought with a 1-0 victory at Middlesbrough on Saturday to go top of the Premier League for at least two hours.
Diana Taurasi has another award to add to her trophy case. The Phoenix Mercury guard was the runaway winner yesterday as the WNBA Rookie of the Year. Taurasi, who led the University of Connecticut to three successive NCAA championships, became the second No. 1 overall draft pick to win the award, joining Washington's Chamique Holdsclaw (1999). Taurasi was fourth in ...
Just three months ago, investors of technology stocks watched values plummet after some 20 software companies warned Wall Street that sales would remain lackluster in what turned out to be a brutal second quarter.
Shareholders in BSkyB made their objections to the group #39;s controversial buyback plan known yesterday when almost a fifth of the votes cast were in opposition to the proposal.
AP - A night after he was hit on the left elbow by a pitch, Derek Jeter stole two bases in the ninth inning and scored on Hideki Matsui's two-out single to lead the visiting New York Yankees past Cleveland 5-4 Tuesday night, handing the Indians their ninth straight loss.
million for new Cingular and 40.4 million for Verizon Wireless. ADDS new final graf with stock prices. By CURT ANDERSON. WASHINGTON-- Justice Department antitrust regulators cleared the way Monday for Cingular
China #39;s imports and exports in thefirst ten months this year amounted to 926.47 billion US dollars, rising 35.8 percent year-on-year, according to statistics releasedby the
About 20 forestry and wood processing companies in New Zealand have reached an agreement on planning to work together to take on the highly lucrative Chinese market.
NEW DELHI, NOVEMBER 8: General Electrics (GE) India business headed for a fresh start on Monday, as it kick-started a global reorganisation of its back office operations, starting with selling 60 per cent of GECIS for $500 million.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Charles Schwab Corp. is paying David Pottruck, ousted as chief executive officer in July, a lump-sum payment of $6.
The Gold Glove shortstop and his agent met with Indians general manager Mark Shapiro for an hour on Monday to discuss whether Vizquel will be with Cleveland next year.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Johnson Controls Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=JCI.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;JCI.N&lt;/A&gt;, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings rose 24 percent on growth in both its automotive interiors and building controls businesses.
AP - No. 45 was a simple 3-yard floater to his favorite target. No. 46 was vintage Peyton Manning, a 12-yard bullet between two defenders.
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK.L: Quote, Profile, Research) has agreed to disclose information on all clinical studies of its drugs to settle a lawsuit that accused it of withholding negative information about the antidepressant Paxil, the
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices held steady above $49 on Friday as market unease persisted over supply security in Nigeria, despite peace talks, while the world's richest nations suggested oil resources were scarcer than first thought.
Leaders of the US Airways pilots' union rejected a bid to have pilots vote on a proposal by the airline for $295 million in wage and benefit cuts.
AP - Barry Larkin will not be offered another contract by the Cincinnati Reds, ending his 19-year career with his hometown team, he told The Associated Press on Tuesday.
AP - The Internal Revenue Service is making it easier for the smallest of businesses to file their income tax returns, allowing more of them to use the very simple form known as Schedule C-EZ.
AFP - Prosecutors here are expected to file charges Wednesday against National Basketball Association players and spectators who took part in a November 19 brawl.
Noelle Quinn scored the go-ahead basket with 16.7 seconds remaining and finished with 27 points yesterday, helping host UCLA rally from an early 17-point deficit and beat fourth-ranked Texas, 63-60.
Fifth-seeded Marat Safin of Russia easily beat American Kevin Kim 6-2, 6-4 on Friday to move into the semi-finals of the China Open.
Seattle added Aaron Taylor, Jeremy Reed, Mickey Lopez and Greg Dobbs to the Major League roster prior to the game Monday at Safeco Field.
In a strategic move that demonstrates how Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. (MSO) soared to success in the first place, the company has entered into agreements with Mark Burnett and an affiliated entity.
BOSTON (Sports Network) - The Boston Celtics placed forward Tom Gugliotta on the injured list Tuesday with lower back pain.
AP - The Expos and Marlins were pulled off the field during Montreal's final home game Wednesday night after a fan threw a golf ball that landed near second base.
Citing safety concerns, NBA commissioner David Stern announced Friday that the Jazz #39;s scheduled preseason game against CSKA Moscow on Oct. 8 in the Russian capital has been cancelled.
Table tennis players Li Ching and Ko Lai Chak won here Saturday the first Olympic medal for Chinese Hong Kong since the former British-occupied territory returned to China on July 1, 1997.
A foreign airline has been given permission by the federal government to carry electronic Taser stun guns on some of its flights in the United States to protect against hijackings or other attacks.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei share average fell 0.44 percent by mid-morning on Thursday as technology shares such as Toshiba Corp. followed their U.S. peers lower after a major U.S. investment bank downgraded its view on the sector.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 1.51 percent to a five-week closing low on Thursday as poor machinery orders data followed sluggish growth figures that undermined confidence in the economy a day earlier.
The Halifax bank, Britain's biggest mortgage lender, predicts a much-feared fall in the rampant UK property market.
Two relatives of Mariano Rivera's wife were electrocuted while cleaning the pool at the Panama home of the New York Yankees closer.
Marsh amp; McLennan (NYSE: MMC) has the highest yield this company #39;s share price has offered since 1988. The dividend has risen every year for the past 10 years at a 12 clip.
The television in Bobby Cox #39;s office was tuned to the Chicago Cubs #39; game, and the Braves manager intently watched the ninth inning.
Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., Japans second-biggest auto maker, said on Thursday it would suspend operations at three of its four domestic plants for five days each this month and next due to a shortage of steel.
The new pump at the Shell station on Benning Road NE in the District doesn't look much different from the others, but it represents a new concept in automotive technology: hydrogen power.
Wizards Coach Eddie Jordan returned to the bench Wednesday against the Nets after missing two games with a blood clot in his leg and Kwame Brown was activated for the first time this season.
Australian copper and nickel miner WMC Resources Ltd. said on Thursday it has turned down aA $7.4 billion ( $5.5 billion) cash takeover offer from Swiss-based Xstrata, but would consider higher bids from the company.
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Spokane filed for bankruptcy protection yesterday, saying it did not have the money to cover lawsuits filed by alleged victims of clergy abuse.
AP - Antoine Walker had 20 points and 10 rebounds, and the Atlanta Hawks rallied from an 11-point deficit in the final 6:11 to beat the Houston Rockets 88-84 Tuesday night.
MCI (MCI), one of the nation #39;s biggest long-distance operators, lost $3.4 billion in the third quarter because of a previously announced asset writedown of $3.
ATHENS -- I saw a game that featured, with only the slightest expansion of our basic concepts, fast breaks, fouled in the act of shooting, sneakaways, pivotmen, turnovers, weaves, give-and-gos, lookaway passes, backward bounce passes, skip passes, a penalty shot, a backdoor play, and great shot blocking worthy of a Russell or a Roy.
GLASGOW: Scotland manager Berti Vogts, right, has resigned because of quot;disgraceful abuse quot; including being spat upon, he said in a Scottish Football Association statement last night.
Report finds retailers suffer fourth month of tepid sales as job security issues, gas prices and food bills scare consumers. By Anne D #39;Innocenzio.
The European Commission said Tuesday that it has approved Oracle Corp. #39;s $7.7 billion bid for PeopleSoft Inc., removing the last antitrust obstacle to the hostile takeover attempt.
The Chicago-based media giant plans to turn Hoy, its Spanish-language daily, into a free newspaper in two of the three cities where it is sold, executives said Wednesday.
AP - Ben Wallace's return to the Detroit Pistons' lineup was far less eventful than his last appearance for the defending NBA champions.
Reuters - The dollar slipped on Monday as market players hesitated to push the currency much higher before upcoming U.S. trade data and a Federal Reserve meeting.
AP - The race for the Nextel Cup championship is down to the wire and the points leader is running away from the field. Suddenly, a slower car gets in his way, holding him up until the other contenders catch up. It just so happens, the slower car is a teammate of one of the contenders. Impossible? Think again.
Like most Alabama fans, injured quarterback Brodie Croyle will sweat out tonight #39;s LSU game at home. If, somehow, the Crimson Tide can knock off the 17th-ranked Tigers, Croyle
WASHINGTON - Orders for quot;big-ticket quot; durable goods crept up by a smaller-than-expected margin in September, hit by a sharp descent in demand for planes, government figures showed.
MANNY RAMIREZ #39;s three-run home run capped a seven-run fourth inning as the Boston Red Sox registered a 9-3 win over the Angels at Anaheim in the opening game of their American League Division Series on Tuesday.
Georgetown is off to an 0-2 start in the Patriot League and plays Bucknell, which is playing its first conference game of the season.
As if playing a divisional opponent was not enough motivation for the New England Patriots this week, they will be shooting to tie the NFL record for most consecutive
(Sports Network) - The Washington Wizards lost to the Dallas Mavericks, 122-113, on Sunday at the MCI Center. Antawn Jamison netted 23 points and grabbed nine boards for the Wizards, who have dropped four of their last five contests.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shares of National Instruments Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NATI.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NATI.O&lt;/A&gt; fell over seven percent after the close of regular trade on Monday after it cut its third-quarter earnings per share and revenue outlook.
The Mooresville, NC-based retailer posted net income of $522 million, or 66 cents a share, compared with $452 million, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier.
During the last couple days, the Notre Dame football coaching search has seemed to focus on former Irish quarterback Tom Clements and Notre Dame graduate Charlie Weis.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock futures pointed to a lower open on Wall Street on Tuesday as investors take profits following Monday's rally and before the Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates.
A United States appeals court upheld a finding of patent infringement against Research In Motion Ltd. yesterday, but struck down part of the ruling and sent it back to a lower court for further proceedings.
UCONN (5-2) vs. SYRACUSE (3-4) When, where: Tomorrow, 1:30 p.m., at Syracuse, N.Y. Last season: First meeting. Comments: UConn is coming off a 45-31 victory against Temple. Dan Orlovsky became UConn's career leader in TD passes. He was 18 of 26 for 260 yards, with two TDs and one interception. LBs Maurice Lloyd and Alfred Fincher combined for 29 tackles ...
Carlos Beltran belted a solo home run to right field, his second of the series off Atlanta starter Jaret Wright, to put the Houston Astros ahead of the Braves 3-0 in the middle of the third inning in the decisive Game 5 of their NL Division
The powerful Hollywood talent agent who walked away from The Walt Disney Co. with $140 million in severance benefits had a meal at Friendly #39;s Restaurant in Rehoboth Beach
China #39;s surprise decision to raise interest rates to cool its economy pulled the rug out from under Australia #39;s high-flying resource sector on Friday, dragging the local sharemarket down from record highs.
ID Biomedical Corp. signed long-term agreements with three of the largest US flu vaccine wholesalers, causing the firms shares to climb 9.2 percent.
Reuters, the UK-based global information company for financial services, media and corporate markets, formally opened its new data centre in Bangalore on Thursday.
The most brilliant American racehorse in years has labored in relative obscurity until now. But when he runs Saturday in the Breeders #39; Cup Classic at Lone Star Park, Ghostzapper can demonstrate
Bankrupt Interstate Bakeries Corp. (IBC.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , maker of Hostess Twinkies and Wonder Bread, received court approval on Thursday to incur new debt
Bloomfield Township, Mich.- In the end Sunday, it seemed fit ting that Colin Mont gomerie, the spiritual leader of Europe #39;s Ryder Cup team, would seal ownership of the cup once again.
Telstra Corp., Australia #39;s biggest phone company, offered to buy back shares for as much as A $4.65 each, the first stage in a plan to return A $4.
com October 1, 2004, 10:51 AM PT. There #39;s no doubt the Internet will continue to make its mark in the world of business and technology.
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc.(KKD.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday reported a sharp drop in quarterly profit and signaled that business may not recover any
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ The road to respectability for the Detroit Lions has been, well, the road, ironic for a team that went three years and an NFL-record 24 games without winning away from Motown.
IN football terms, it #39;s simply known as an offensive line, but Jets right tackle Kareem McKenzie compares it to an orchestra. Call it the Meadowlands Pops.
Offense: F Ken Dorsey played like the seventh-round, second-year quarterback he is. His arm strength, accuracy and even the thing he does best -- decision making --.
Nokia Corp. increased its global market share of mobile phone handsets for a second successive quarter, reaching 30.9 percent with sales of 51.7 million units, market researcher Gartner Inc.
GENEVA: Cross-border investment is set to bounce in 2004 after three years of deep decline, reflecting a stronger world economy and more international merger activity, the United Nations (UN) said overnight.
GREEN BAY - It was clear from the non-stop Brett Favre hype that aired on ABC and its little brother, ESPN, all weekend the television network had pulled some strings with the NFL to get Favre #39;s 200th consecutive start on quot;ABC #39;s Monday Night Football.
Customers are able to download full songs with their phone and put them on a computer. Also: Hewlett-Packard has major malfunctions with its software hellip;. Microsoft and PalmOne, together at last hellip;. and more.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - American International Group Inc., the world's largest insurer by market value, said on Thursday it was the target of a federal grand jury investigation into products that prosecutors say were concocted to help companies manage their earnings.
Eight months of simmering tension at investment bank Lazard erupted this week as its patrician chairman told the Wall Street legend he hired to run the bank to take it public by next June or quit.
DUBAI (AFP) - Dubai Ports International (DPI), a leading world port operator, announced it had acquired the international terminal business conducted by CSX World Terminals (CSXWT) for 1.15 billion dollars.
NEW YORK - Third-quarter net income at American International Group Inc., one of the insurance giants named an investigation into questionable sales practices, rose 7.5 percent in spite of higher catastrophe losses, but missed Wall Street #39;s forecast by a
The European Union was ready to announce a settlement Tuesday of its long-running antitrust case against The Coca-Cola Co. after the beverage giant agreed to modify its
NEW YORK : The dollar moved slightly against major currencies after key US ISM data on manufacturing was in line with expectations, as the market remained cautious on the prospects for the US economy.
John Toshack will leave no stone unturned in his quest to build a Wales team capable of qualifying for the World Cup and European Championships.
FOXBORO, Mass. -- The Patriots knew a day like this would come. The passing game would be taken away, almost totally, and they #39;d need a workhorse back to win the game for them.
The Bourne football team has compiled five shutouts and played to a 10-1 record this season behind the mantra: quot;Respect everybody, fear nobody. quot; That formula becomes harder to live by tomorrow when the Canalmen take on Eastern Athletic Conference champion Bishop Feehan in the Division 2A playoffs at 4 p.m. at Greater New Bedford Vocational High School.
MarketWatch, the owner of a leading financial news site, CBS MarketWatch, is soliciting bids expected to be as much as $400 million for the company.
The European Union said Monday it will lift sanctions against US imports following President Bush #39;s decision to remove illegal export subsidies.
Tight end Benjamin Watson's season was doomed from the outset. Not only did Watson hold out of training camp and part ways with agent Tom Condon , who wanted him to hold firm on his wish for a five-year rookie contract rather than the six-year deal he ultimately signed, but now Watson's season is over after the team ...
UK unemployment fell by 67,000 in the three months to September to 1.38 million, official figures show.
The board of HBOS is due to decide this week whether to bid against Spanish bank Santander for local rival Abbey National, newspapers say, but HBOS declined to comment.
JAKARTA (Reuters) - Demand for oil will decline by 1 million barrels per day (bpd) in the second quarter of 2005, the head of the OPEC producers' cartel said on Monday.
Cigarette sales in Ireland have fallen by 17.6 percent this year after it became the first country to impose a nationwide ban on smoking in the workplace.
NEW YORK, Nov. 18. - Defending World Cup football champions Brazil suffered the most shocking result of the day, but China were the biggest losers.
House prices rose 0.2 percent in September compared with the month before to stand up 17.8 percent on a year ago, the Nationwide Building Society says.
MINNEAPOLIS (Ticker) -- The Minnesota Twins don #39;t have to pack their bags for the playoffs just yet. Corey Koskie homered and drove in three runs to help Minnesota rally for a 4-3 triumph over the Cleveland Indians .
Stock picker Anthony Elgindy profited from illegal tips supplied by an FBI agent who told him about probes of companies Elgindy would then sell short while spreading negative information to clients of his online newsletter, a prosecutor said.
SYDNEY (Dow Jones)--News Corp. (NWS) Chairman Rupert Murdoch said there was quot;no choice quot; but to change the media giant #39;s domicile to the US as he attempts to win over crucial support from Australian investors for the move, the Australian Financial Review ...
AP - The NBA has come to booming, basketball-crazy China #151; but it doesn't expect to make any money soon. The league flew more than 100 people halfway around the world for its first games in China, featuring the Houston Rockets #151; with Chinese-born star Yao Ming #151; and the Sacramento Kings.
Aren #39;t we blessed to have so many young players breathing life into cricket just as soon as it comes a little predictable. It was about time the Australian selectors took the risk of giving Michael Clarke a baggy green cap.
Some of the United States #39; biggest, most profitable corporations saw their federal income tax rates decline over the last three years, thanks to recent tax cuts, according to a liberal think tank in Washington.
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan #39;s age and length of tenure must be taking its toll on his thinking processes and memory.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the world #39;s largest retailer, said on Saturday it still sees a 2 to 4 percent increase in October sales at its stores open at least a year.
US mortgage finance company Freddie Mac said on Friday it began payments to former Chief Executive Leland Brendsel after a court ruled regulators could not freeze his compensation pending investigation into an accounting
Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Bunning barely won re-election to the US Senate on Tuesday, edging Democratic challenger Daniel Mongiardo by about 2 percent of the vote in Kentucky.
MONTREAL (CP) - Josh Beckett scattered four hits over seven solid innings and Miguel Cabrera homered Monday as the Florida Marlins snapped a six-game losing streak with a 4-1 win over the Montreal Expos.
MILAN (Reuters) - Fiat and General Motors Corp plan to start one-on-one mediation to settle a dispute over whether the Italian industrial group can sell its loss-mired car unit to GM from Jan. 24.
Jonah Lomu has not targeted next year #39;s Sevens World Cup in Hong Kong for his comeback but admitted he still harbours dreams of playing for his country again.
There is everything to play for in Group B, with Steaua Bucharest the only team having qualified. Tonight, Parma (already out) host Besiktas (four points), while Standard Liege (four) entertain Athletic Bilbao (6).
The loud lefty known for his unabashed love of Yankees history agreed Saturday to a two-year contract with Boston, a Red Sox official told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.
If Shannon Sharpe, who was at the Broncos #39; exhibition finale on Thursday and spotted at team headquarters this weekend, wanted to he could roll off the
The families or loved ones of civilians killed on Sept. 11 received, on average, $3.1 million in government and charitable awards.
In a nasty trade battle that could rattle the multibillion-dollar aerospace industry, the US and Europe formally sued one another in the World Trade Organisation over the huge government subsidies paid to their respective aircraft giants, Boeing and Airbus
This is how crazy it has become in the race for the BCS title game: Oklahoma might not go to Orange Bowl because of, well, oranges.
The longer-term solvency of the US agency that insures pensions is at risk, threatened by troubled airlines and other companies failing to fund their retirement plans, the agency #39;s director said on Thursday.
Benjamin Raich of Austria held off teammate Rainer Schoenfelder and Giorgio Rocca of Italy on Sunday to win the first slalom of the World Cup season, while overall leader Bode Miller skied out for a second straight race.
AFP - Japan's jobless rate rose to a worse-than-expected 4.9 percent in July but the government said the uptick in unemployment was mainly caused by young people leaving positions to search for new jobs.
American sprinter Jerome Young was banned from competition for life Wednesday by the United States Anti-Doping Agency. For the second time, Young tested positive for a banned
CHARLOTTE -- So often in today #39;s rich-get-richer corporate climate of the NFL, everybody seems to get along just swimmingly. The league #39;s management and the players union have to endure charges of being entirely
High oil prices, which have been a factor in virtually all US recessions over the past three decades, are surging again this year.
Merrill Lynch returned to the business of lending to wealthy clients and got burned again.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar rose near a two-and-a-half-week high versus the yen on Monday after a jump late last week following a U.S. employment report.
The Andover girls ' soccer team is starting its tournament run early this year. With most of its Merrimack Valley Conference schedule completed, coach Dick Loschi's 14-1 squad viewed yesterday's matchup against Notre Dame of Hingham as step one in the pursuit of a state title. A scoreless deadlock persisted for most of the game, but when junior Emily Pallotta ...
Time Warner Inc. (TWX.N: Quote, Profile, Research) said on Monday its America Online Internet unit, once seen as the company #39;s red-headed stepchild, could contribute some of the company #39;s most explosive revenue growth.
Texas Tech men #39;s coach Bob Knight was the guest speaker Monday at the National Press Club, offering his opinions on basketball topics and downplaying any ambitions to make the jump to politics from the world of sports.
Wali Lundy runs for 104 yards and three touchdowns and Alvin Pearman returns a punt 70 yards for a score to lead No. 16 Virginia to a 44-14 win over Temple on Saturday.
McDonald #39;s Corp. #39;s second new CEO in eight months pledged Friday to keep up the fast-food giant #39;s momentum with more new menu items and a continued focus on restaurant improvements, adhering to a course that has reinvigorated the burger chain #39;s sales and
ATHENS -- The Games ended here last night with the last runner of the marathon making his way into Panathinaikos Stadium and the Olympic flame being doused a few hours later.
Major League Baseball negotiators held day-long sessions with District officials Tuesday and toured RFK Stadium as part of efforts to find a new home for the Montreal Expos.
It #39;s no F1 secret, but Spa-Francorchamps - not far from Michael Schumacher #39;s German birthplace - is his favourite track. Ferrari #39;s champion won last time out in Belgium (2002) and will probably wrap-up title number seven in the Ardennes on Sunday.
The regulars at the Thessalia Grill on Skiathou Street had waited all month for Panagiotis Tsimbidas to open his doors, which had been closed because of his annual August vacation and the unexpected heart problems of his elderly father-in-law.
Around 3,000 jobs will be lost at Abbey National if the UK banks takeover by Spains Santander Central Hispano (SCH) goes ahead, it emerged today.
THOUSAND OAKS, California : Host Tiger Woods fired a four-under par 67 here Thursday to match fellow American Jim Furyk and Scotland #39;s Colin Montgomerie for the lead after the first round of the World Challenge.
The company's stock is not as popular as Madden NFL 2005, with its top sales numbers. Yet.
Allan Houston called playing in the Nov. 3 season opener at Minnesota a realistic goal, but also said, "I don't think anything's a lock."
England: West Indies batsman Ramnaresh Sarwan is confident the West Indies can end a long sequence of failures by winning the ICC Champions Trophy.
Sydney: New Zealand made a disastrous beginning in their tour opener against New South Wales as they were shot out for a modest 213 at the Sydney cricket ground here today.
il prices climbed nearer to $50 a barrel yesterday before retreating, as traders reacted to reports on the conflict in Iraq, concerned that growing unrest might interrupt crude oil exports.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Asian shares rallied on Thursday, with Taiwan jumping more than 3 percent, as technology issues chased a rise in their U.S. peers and investors showed resilience to record oil prices.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Blockbuster Inc. on Tuesday said it was ending late fees on movies and games from Jan 1. as it battles to reverse falling rental demand, and forecast operating income would be flat in 2005.
Stock in AK Steel Corp. and other publicly traded US steel companies posted large gains Monday on news of a three-way merger that #39;ll create the world #39;s largest steelmaker.
AP - New season, new conference, same result. Frank Gore's 18-yard touchdown run in overtime gave No. 5 Miami a 16-10 victory over No. 4 Florida State on Friday night.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A federal appeals court on Thursday delivered a stinging blow to the anti-piracy efforts of major movie studios and music companies, ruling that several major online file-sharing software companies are not liable for copyright infringement.
DETROIT The Detroit City Council has passed a modified version of its controversial plan for a black business district. In doing so, they #39;ve repealed a provision that loans go only to blacks.
Shawn Green can sit out today knowing he was already a huge help to the Los Angeles Dodgers during their crucial series against San Francisco.
Oil prices fall on news of Nigerian peace talks but analysts expect the price to remain close to the $50 mark.
ATHENS (Reuters) - The U.S. and Spanish coaches had to be separated when an argument erupted at the end of the game as the United States beat Spain 102-94 in the Olympic men's basketball quarterfinals Thursday.
With concern growing that a popular new class of arthritis medicine might increase a patient #39;s risk of heart attack and stroke, the maker of Celebrex -- one of the most widely sold drugs in
Kenya has met all economic conditions set by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) which could result in the release of a delayed loan to the east African country, a visiting IMF mission announced here Friday.
Alan Trammell has seen a lot of crazy things during almost three decades in the major leagues. Nothing, however, prepared him for what he saw yesterday.
Tottenham sporting director Frank Arnesen denied reports Saturday that Jacques Santini quit as manager because of a dispute over how the club was being run.
France #39;s largest media company, Vivendi Universal (EAUG.PA: Quote, Profile, Research) , raised its 2004 earnings forecast as it reported a 19 percent increase in third-quarter underlying operating profit, buoyed by a rebound in
LONDON (Reuters) - Questions about the sustainability of global economic growth held many markets hostage Friday as crude oil prices bumped close to $55 a barrel and investors awaited a raft of U.S. data.
Crude oil futures prices fell below $43 a barrel Friday, extending two days of sharp sell-offs as worries about low winter fuel inventories dissipate amid rising supplies.
AFC Enterprises Inc. plans to sell its Cinnabon subsidiary to Focus Brands Inc., an affiliate of Roark Capital Group, for $30.3 million.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=DAL.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;DAL.N&lt;/A&gt; said on Wednesday its auditors have expressed doubt about the airline's financial viability.
Tackle Lorenzo Alexander left the USC game with an injured elbow. X-rays and an MRI exam didn #39;t reveal any major damage. He was taking part in limited drills Monday, and coach Jeff Tedford said he expected him to be fine by Saturday.
Richard Hamilton posted 21 points to propel the Detroit Pistons to an 81-69 triumph over the Cleveland Cavaliers at Auburn Hills, Michigan Thursday.
Liberty Mutual Group has been subpoenaed by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the first local insurer to be caught up in the prosecutor's fast-widening probe into the insurance industry's sales practices.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Thursday morning after China's central bank said it was raising interest rates for the first time in nine years, fueling concerns that global economic growth may slow.
DALLAS (Reuters) - American Airlines' parent AMR Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMR.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMR.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday posted a third-quarter loss as record-high oil prices battered its bottom line and threatened to make fourth-quarter losses even larger.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. technology stocks opened lower on Thursday after a sales warning from Applied Materials Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=AMAT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;AMAT.O&lt;/A&gt;, while weekly jobless claims data met Wall Street's expectations, leaving the Dow and S P 500 market measures little changed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - ShopKo Stores Inc., a specialty and discount retailer, on Wednesday said sales at stores open at least a year fell 4.8 percent in November but maintained its fourth-quarter earnings forecast.
High doses of Zocor provide no benefits in preventing new problems in heart attack patients: study. MUNICH (Reuters) - Merck #39;s anti-cholesterol drug Zocor suffered a setback after a major study found high
Rich Rodriguez expects a tough, physical game -- as usual -- from Boston College, a team the West Virginia coach says has a defensive line with no weaknesses.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks were little changed on Wednesday as high crude prices drove up shares of energy companies, but profit warnings dragged on such sectors as auto parts and semiconductors.
Defender Jonathan Woodgate says he is relieved he is unlikely to need surgery for a long-standing thigh injury and should be able to make his debut for Real Madrid before the end of the year.
Microsoft Corp. on Thursday said its first quarter profit climbed as personal computer sales and business demand fueled higher sales.
Robert Korzeniowski of Poland added to his record collection of gold medals in race walking with his unprecedented third consecutive Olympic victory Friday in the 50-kilometer walk.
Houston guard Tracy McGrady has scored 13 points in the final 35 second of the match against San Antonio, to hand his side an 81-80 victory.
Some members of the Paris Club of creditor nations agree to forgive 80 of Iraq's debt at the G20 summit in Berlin.
The Baltimore Ravens (7-3) have a prime opportunity to exploit the New England Patriots #39; vulnerable secondary in today #39;s game at Gillette Stadium.
Viacom Inc., the media conglomerate, said Thursday that profits grew 11.6 percent in the third quarter because of a jump in advertising at its cable and television networks.
New Delhi, Oct. 3 (PTI): Overnight rains came as a blessing in disguise for Chinese runner Yingjie Sun, who crushed Irish star Sonia O #39;Sullivan #39;s dream of completing a rare triple of world titles by winning
Rafael Benitez #39;s Anfield revolution gathered pace today when the Liverpool manager unveiled one new signing and revealed he was close to completing a deal for another.
AFP - US retail sales rose 0.1 percent in November, a better than expected start to the crucial holiday shopping season, seasonally adjusted government figures showed.
As far as the Red Sox are concerned, there are no hard feelings for Pedro Martinez. Team president/CEO Larry Lucchino says he, principal owner John Henry
Argentina #39;s Guillermo Canas had an easy time winning the final of the Heineken Open in Shanghai. Canas, the No. 3 seed, rolled to his third ATP tournament win this season with a 6-1 6-0 straight-sets victory over Lars Burgsmuller of Germany.
MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--Australian shares closed at a record for a second consecutive session Tuesday as gains in resources heavyweight BHP Billiton and the banking sector were offset by losses in media group News Corp.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova swept into the semi-finals of the China Open on Friday when opponent Jelena Jankovic retired hurt in the first set with an ankle injury.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shawn Green hit two home runs, including a grand slam, as Los Angeles defeated the Atlanta Braves 7-4 in a battle of National League division leaders at Dodger Stadium on Saturday.
AP - The president of troubled retailer Daiei announced his resignation Friday, two days after he was forced by lenders to seek a government bailout.
AP - Andy Roddick searched out Carlos Moya in the throng of jumping, screaming Spanish tennis players, hoping to shake hands.
South Africa #39;s 20-year-old Charl Schwartzel captured the Alfred Dunhill Championship on Sunday for his first European Tour title, recovering from a poor finish in regulation to win the first playoff hole against England #39;s
Australia #39;s champion leg-spinner Shane Warne has been sent home from India after breaking his thumb in training, ruling him out of the fourth Test in Mumbai, which begins on Wednesday.
The British Grand Prix has been dropped from the provisional calendar of Formula One races for next year, media reports said Thursday.
Vincent Lecavalier signed with a Russian team Thursday to play during the NHL lockout and said Tampa Bay Lightning teammate Brad Richards will be joining him.
US Airways and its largest lender yesterday struck a new financing arrangement that could free up $140 million while the strapped airline remains in bankruptcy -- but only if holdout unions agree to major cost cuts.
About this time last year, I wrote a column following up on some pieces I #39;d written earlier to see what if anything new had happened to those topics.
In Australia, the chief executive and chief finance officer of the James Hardie building materials company have stood aside. The move is the company #39;s first response to a damning report on the way it failed
Four hundred fifty miles of Midwestern highway separate Iowa City from Ann Arbor, but the football programs at the University of Michigan and Iowa are much closer than that.
Cisco Systems Inc. , Genentech Inc. , and Qualcomm Inc. will present accounting rule makers with a revised method to expense stock options that would cut the cost to companies about 70 percent, a lawyer for the companies said.
After months of soaring crude oil prices, BP, the world #39;s second-biggest publicly traded oil company, reported a 43 percent rise in third-quarter profit on Tuesday and forecast
Winner of five medals and arguably the biggest star of the Sydney Games four years ago, the American finished fifth in Friday #39;s long jump and -- barely one hour later -- went out with the US 4x100m relay team.
The man who became Enron Corporations chief financial officer only a month after the energy giant declared bankruptcy has resigned.
A decision by Brazil to raise its budget surplus target shows the government had quot;solid control quot; of the country #39;s economic needs, an International Monetary Fund official said on Thursday.
AP - Larry Bowa was fired as manager of the Philadelphia Phillies on Saturday, a day before the end of yet another disappointing year.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Norway, Germany, France, Britain, Romania, New Zealand and Australia all looted the gold-medal chest in the Athens Olympic rowing basin on Saturday, as Greece counted the cost of the Games in national pride and cash.
Billions of dollars worth of global telecommunications networks bought or built by United States investors now belong to Chinese, Indian and other non-American companies that have snapped them up for a fraction of their cost.
The boss of Boeing Co. insisted Thursday that he is not looking for a trans-Atlantic spat in a dispute over subsidies for Airbus, but also said that aid for the rival aircraft maker #39;s new programs should stop.
Arsene Wenger stopped short of declaring Arsenal back to their best but the Gunners boss does believe his side are on the road to recovery ahead of Sunday #39;s Premiership summit meeting with Chelsea.
Alpharetta-based AtheroGenics announced positive interim results Monday from a clinical trial of its drug to treat atherosclerosis, which leads to coronary heart disease.
AP - Riley, who tied for fourth at the PGA Championship to earn a spot on his first Ryder Cup team, became a first-time father late last week when his wife gave birth to a girl.
AP - Florida assistant basketball coach Major Parker has been arrested on charges of selling half a kilogram of cocaine to an undercover officer, a U.S. attorney said Wednesday.
AP - Tyrone Willingham never showed a trace of doubt. Not following last season's 5-7 finish by Notre Dame. Not after a deflating season-opening loss to Brigham Young. Not when the Fighting Irish trailed 9-0 at halftime to Michigan on Saturday.
DHAKA - Bangabandhu National Stadium maybe a world away from the spiritual home of cricket at Lord #39;s in London, but for Brendon McCullum the Dhaka venue felt like heaven yesterday.
The 2004 presidential race ended last week in a stunning defeat for Massachusetts Senator John F. Kerry, as incumbent President George W. Bush cruised to an easy victory.
Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard will fire his interest rate gun and then conspicuously reload it when he delivers his monetary policy statement on Thursday.
WASHINGTON (CBS.MW) -- Activity at factories in the Philadelphia region grew at a slower pace in September, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said Thursday.
MADISON, Wis. Sixth-ranked Wisconsin is 8-and-0 for the fourth time in 115 years of football. Anthony Davis rushed for 117 yards and two touchdowns on 31 carries as the Badgers beat Northwestern 24-to-12.
AP - Nathalie Dechy advanced to the final of the Pilot Pen tournament, using quick, accurate play to beat Lisa Raymond 6-4, 6-0 Friday.
Reuters - Japan and the United States agreed on Saturday to resume imports of some American beef, halted since December after a case of mad cow disease in Washington state, but did not set a date for restarting trade.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Marsh McLennan Cos. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MMC.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MMC.N&lt;/A&gt;, at the center of a bid-rigging scandal rocking the insurance industry, on Tuesday said it will cut 3,000 jobs and said third-quarter profit fell 94 percent as it set aside money for legal and regulatory expenses.
n If the New England Patriots are considered the NFL #39;s best team, what does that make Pittsburgh? The Steelers opened a lot of eyes Sunday at Heinz Field with a convincing 34-20 win over the defending Super
Happy New Year, all you investors with an eye for numerology. According to a popular financial folk tale, there's no need to worry much about Federal Reserve policy or corporate earnings growth in 2005. The stock market, and stock mutual funds, will do just fine because they always prosper in years that end with a five.
Former world No 1 Marat Safin stormed into the second round of the Thailand Open on Wednesday with a confident 6-2, 6-3 win over Israel #39;s Noam Okun.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. securities regulators on Thursday charged brokerage Raymond James Financial Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=RJF.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;RJF.N&lt;/A&gt; with fraud over misconduct by a former broker charged with misappropriating about $8.7 million in investor funds.
England will be determined to restore their battered reputation when their 2006 World Cup qualifying campaign resumes with a mouth-watering clash against Wales at Old Trafford this weekend.
Oracle Corp. #39;s 18-month struggle to gain control of PeopleSoft Inc. drew to a close this morning when PeopleSoft #39;s board agreed to a new $10.3 billion takeover offer.
The new regulatory body for the auditing industry said that its inspections of the Big Four accounting firms had found "significant audit and accounting issues."
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's financial regulator may suspend or even end some private banking operations at the Japanese commercial banking unit of U.S. financial services firm Citigroup Inc. due to lost customer data and questionable securities transactions, local media said on Thursday.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Maria Sharapova bandwagon came to a grinding halt on Saturday when Mary Pierce rolled back the years with a sensational 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 win in the third round of the U.S. Open.
A federal judge on Wednesday handed online search engine Google Inc. (GOOG.O: Quote, Profile, Research) a victory in a trademark infringement case on Wednesday, ruling
CAIRO (Reuters) - OPEC oil producers said Thursday that Friday's ministerial meeting would rein in oversupply to bolster falling prices and that the cartel would have to reduce output quotas early next year.
John Lynch will be out for two-to-four weeks after being diagnosed with a fractured tailbone. Denver #39;s veteran safety went down after being hit in the side by Falcons receiver Brian Finneran in Sunday #39;s 41-28 loss.
From air filters and appliances to sinks and shingles, one could conceivably build an entire house using supplies and tools bought at eBay.
The NHL lockout forced the cancellation of this season #39;s All-Star game, scheduled to be held in Atlanta in February. Wednesday #39;s announcement that the midseason showcase would not be held came on the 49th
Volkswagen AG, Europe #39;s biggest carmaker, may cut 30,000 jobs, or almost a fifth of its German workforce, if the labour union representing workers does not agree to a wage
ATHENS (Reuters) - The United States stormed to their first Olympic men's eights title in 40 years on Sunday.
BOISE, Idaho (Ticker) -- Tyler Jones and Jared Zabransky helped No. 16 Boise State extend some impressive streaks. Jones kicked four field goals and Zabransky ran for a touchdown and threw for another as the
The champion of the America East Conference this season likely will come from the ranks of last year's big three -- Boston University, Northeastern, and tournament winner Vermont.
ASHBURN, Va., (Sports Network) - Washington Redskins linebacker LaVar Arrington suffered a setback Monday in his return from knee surgery, as the All-Pro strained his right knee during a practice session.
Takoma Park 140-pounder Sharmba Mitchell has won eight consecutive fights, including three in the last eight months, and says he #39;s never felt better.
If Chicago defeats Columbus at Soldier Field Wednesday, the Fire will lead the Revolution by six points for the final Eastern Conference playoff berth. But the Revolution could be in position to earn the tiebreaker advantage when they meet the Fire at Gillette Stadium Oct. 16.
San Francisco's Barry Bonds eclipsed the 40-homer mark for the fifth straight season. Rick Ankiel , whose career was derailed by wild pitches and elbow surgery, made his first appearance for St. Louis in more than three years. He allowed one hit in a scoreless inning in relief.
Vijay Singh has a theory about what #39;s wrong with Tiger Woods #39; game: he hasn #39;t adapted his swing to the changes in his body.
SALT LAKE CITY Oct. 12, 2004 - Utah Jazz point guard Raul Lopez, who missed the 2002-03 season after having a second surgery on his right knee, will be out indefinitely after bumping his leg over the weekend.
ATLANTA -- They choked on their eggs. Got heartburn from the orange juice. And don #39;t even ask about the sausage. Breakfast was a tough go Sunday for the Detroit Lions defensive players, but it had nothing to do with the food.
US Airways Group and Delta Air Lines are both looking to their executive ranks in their latest round of cost cuts.
US Airways Group Inc. #39;s pilots union said on Wednesday it may agree this week on a plan to cut wages and benefits to help the seventh-biggest US airline avoid a second bankruptcy filing.
Colgate-Palmolive said today that it would close about a third of its 81 factories and cut more than 4,400 jobs over the next four years in a major effort to increase profit margins pressured by global competition.
Britons are saving 57bn too little for their retirement, according to figures leaked to a Sunday paper.
AP - Frank's Nursery amp; Crafts Inc., having filed for bankruptcy twice in three years and failing to lure enough customers back from bigger retailers like Wal-Mart and Home Depot, is going out of business.
Real Madrid #39;s super soccer star and England captain David Beckham will reveal his talent, other than play football, in a film of $100 million soccer trilogy -- GOAL.
LSU quarterback Marcus Randall has never been able to nail down the quarterback job this season. But Friday against Arkansas, the fifth-year senior seized the day.
The Thomson Corp. of Stamford, Conn., will acquire KnowledgeNet Inc., a privately held live e-learning company, and merge it with its enterprise learning business, Thomson NETg.
Cristian Guzman and Shannon Stewart homered to lead the Minnesota Twins over the Detroit Tigers 3-2 on Saturday night. The Tigers lost their two all-stars to knee injuries.
Failed US energy giant Enron is given permission by a federal judge to sell off its last remaining asset - its natural gas pipelines.
MINNEAPOLIS - While other retailers struggled with a sluggish back-to-school season, Target Corp. reported same-store sales well above the industry average.
Trying to counter the loss of Pedro Martnez and their failures in other contract negotiations, the Red Sox have reached an agreement shortstop Edgar Renteria.
Media giant News Corp is mustering its forces to make sure the Murdoch family stays in control and to ward off a possible takeover bid.
ATI Technologies Inc., the world #39;s No. 2 maker of computer-graphics chips, said fourth-quarter profit more than doubled on surging demand for components used in digital televisions and mobile phones with color screens.
Pierce returned after taking a hit in the mouth during the final minute. He played with a mouth guard following seven hours of dental surgery after being hit with an elbow during Saturday #39;s win at New York.
General Electric today reported third-quarter earnings of $4.051 billion, an increase of 1 percent from the same quarter last year.
The disgruntled receiver, who turns 42 today, expects to be dealt before the Oct. 19 trade deadline. By Gregg Bell -- Bee Staff Writer.
AP - In the first half, Illinois trailed for 11 minutes, 20 seconds, longer than it had in its first seven games combined. In the second half, the Fighting Illini were in control buzzer-to-buzzer in a solid defense of their No. 1 ranking.
The dollar hit a record low against the euro for a fourth day running on Friday but rebounded swiftly as traders grew nervous about the possibility of central bank intervention.
Kutztown, Pa. -- Lorena Ochoa birdied three of the final four holes yesterday to overcome a five-stroke disadvantage and win the Wachovia LPGA Classic.
INDIANAPOLIS (Nov. 8, 2004) -- Peyton Manning provided the expected fireworks, including a left-handed pass for a key first down. Mike Vanderjagt #39;s leg sealed the win for the Indianapolis Colts.
The Phillies have reportedly settled on former Indians manager Charlie Manuel to become the team #39;s 50th skipper, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported on its Web site Wednesday night.
La Coruna, Spain (Sports Network) - Osasuna overcame a red card to shock Deportivo La Coruna Sunday, 3-1. Deportivo took a 1-0 lead into halftime on a Walter Pandiani strike in the 19th minute.
AP - Florida State quarterback Chris Rix left Saturday's game against Clemson late in the first quarter with an injured right ankle.
Pro baseball: Eastern League -- Trenton vs. Portland (2) at Hadlock Field, Portland, Maine, 1 p.m.; New Hampshire vs. New Britain at New Britain (Conn.) Stadium, 1:30 p.m.; Northeast League -- North Shore vs. New Haven at Yale Field, New Haven, 2 p.m.; Elmira vs. Brockton (2) at Campanelli Stadium, Brockton, 5 p.m.
LAS VEGAS - KIEV, Dec.12-13 -mmediately after defending his WBC heavyweight title in the fight against Danny Williams in Las Vegas Saturday night, Vitali Klitschko headed to his native Ukraine to joint another battle - fight for freedom in the
Kicker Ryan Ohliger of Newark, Del., and punter Johnny Ayers of Oakton, Va., will have the huge responsibility of being the only freshman starters on the Boston College football team this season. Pressure? What pressure?
But Desi Relaford #39;s ninth-inning drive with two runners on and two out settled into the glove of right fielder Gary Matthews Jr.
Pedro Martinez keeps the Cardinals down over seven innings as the Red Sox win, 4-1, in Game 4 to take a 3-0 lead in the World Series.
Dude, where #39;s my boom? That #39;s a question a lot of Hous- tonians are asking as oil crowds the $50-a-barrel mark. Where #39;s the frenetic hiring as oil companies staff up for the good times?
AP - Germany's budget deficit widened in the first half of this year, figures released Tuesday showed, but the government renewed its commitment to get the shortfall back within a European Union-imposed limit next year.
Jaguars defensive end Paul Spicer broke his right leg against the Denver Broncos on Sunday and could be out for the season. Spicer had to be carted off the field late in the third quarter after he cut inside
The chemistry between Adriano and Obafemi Martins raises questions further marks about Christian Vieri #39;s future at Inter Milan.
Hennes amp; Mauritz AB, Europe #39;s largest clothing retailer, said fiscal third-quarter profit rose 18 percent, the fastest rate in five quarters, as a cooler summer spurred demand for jackets
Reports from Federal Reserve districts say economy is growing but energy prices have cut spending. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The US economy kept on growing in September and early October, even as higher prices
WAYNE Rooney will have a scan today which will determine whether he makes his Manchester United debut against Liverpool on September 20.
NEW YORK -- So maybe everybody got a little too carried away with this Red Sox resurgence. Maybe we forgot who these guys really are.
With a slew of reporters from New York at Monday #39;s game to watch former Mets prospect Scott Kazmir make his pitching debut with the Rays, the questions about Piniella someday going to the Mets could not help but surface.
Chelsea and Arsenal were both held to draws at home by Bolton and West Brom, while Everton closed the gap with a win over Fulham. A last-gasp equaliser from Radhi Jaidi earned Bolton a point in a 2-2 draw with Chelsea at Stamford Bridge.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - San Francisco Giants slugger Barry Bonds captured a record seventh MVP award on Monday, providing a sparkling finish to a season tainted by doping allegations.
Allan Houston started the game on the bench, and finished it on the bench. In between he was so-so, with more than a couple of shots that rattled around inside the rim before
Reuters - A European Union court is set to rule this week on a #36;120 billion deal MCI-WorldCom made during the height of the go-go years that still resonates today.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The average weekly retail price for U.S. gasoline topped $2 a gallon to reach the third-highest level ever recorded by the government, the Energy Department said on Monday.
Description: NPR #39;s Michele Norris talks with Wall Street Journal sports reporter Stefan Fatsis about the latest news from the college gridiron.
Fred Funk can relax. He doesn #39;t have to carry six years #39; worth of frustration anymore. The 48-year-old US Ryder Cup player won his sixth PGA Tour title Sunday, closing with a birdie for a one-stroke victory in the Southern Farm Bureau Classic.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Symantec Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=SYMC.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;SYMC.O&lt;/A&gt;, the top global security software maker, on Thursday said it will buy data management software company Veritas Software Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=VRTS.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;VRTS.O&lt;/A&gt; for $13.5 billion, expanding into the data storage and recovery business.
Clemson #39;s college football game with rival South Carolina was interrupted in the second half when a fight involving several players erupted, spreading nearly the entire length of the field at Clemson #39;s Memorial Stadium and coming close to spilling into
Orders placed with US factories fell for the first time in four months, the Commerce Department said yesterday, with demand dropping sharply for commercial airplanes and parts.
SEATTLE - Chasing a nearly forgotten ghost of the game, Ichiro Suzuki broke one of baseball #39;s oldest records Friday night, smoking a single up the middle for his 258th hit of the year and breaking George Sisler #39;s record for the most hits in a season
BEIJING (Reuters) - Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova set up an intriguing semi-final showdown with fellow Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova at the China Open after her opponent Jelena Jankovic retired hurt Friday with an ankle injury.
Even the The Incredibles would have a hard time rescuing the Walt Disney Co. #39;s compensation committee from their current predicament.
Everyone was hoping to see a reincarnation of Sugar Ray Leonard-Marvin Hagler when Oscar De La Hoya challenged undisputed middleweight champion Bernard Hopkins last Saturday night at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas.
ATA Airlines is laying off 156 employees. Company spokeswoman Erica Keane isn #39;t commenting on reports that the Indianapolis-based ATA is trying to sell all or part of its holdings.
DAVID Coulthard took his early retirement from the Japanese Grand Prix on the chin despite missing out on his best result of the season, as Michael Schumacher collected a record 13th victory of the 2004 campaign.
Former world number one Lleyton Hewitt and defending champion Paradorn Srichaphan moved a step closer to a showdown at the $380,000 Long Island Cup after coming through tough quarter-finals on Friday.
DreamWorks Animation creator of quot;Shrek quot; and quot;Shark Tale, quot; raised $812 million in an initial public offering to fund more moviemaking.
An emotional letdown? For the first World Series in Boston in 18 years? Ask the Red Sox if they might take the Cardinals lightly tonight in Game 1 of the 100th World Series, and they look at you like they did when they first laid eyes on Pedro Martinez's 29-inch-tall actor pal, Nelson de la Rosa.
Township, Mich. -- For all of Hal Sutton #39;s Bear Bryant-meets-George S. Patton act -- all into-the-breach and damn-the-torpedoes -- and for all of Europe #39;s woe-is-me act -- all faux kneeling at the superpower #39;s
Plug Power Inc., a maker of on-site power generation systems for commercial and residential dwellings, on Tuesday said Tyco Electronics Power Systems Inc.
CHAMPAIGN -- ESPN #39;s Jay Bilas said Deron Williams, the Big Ten #39;s Preseason Player of the Year, wouldn #39;t rank in the top 10 in the ACC.
Top seed Tim Henman will face Spain #39;s Albert Costa in round two of the Madrid Masters Series tennis eventafter the home hope defeated Georgian Irakli Labadze 6-2, 5-7, 7-5.
London - The bulk of a brokerage firm #39;s 240 million (R2.7 billion) damages claim against the Financial Times (FT) could not proceed, a judge ruled yesterday.
Adrian Annus faces the threat of becoming the second Hungarian athlete to be stripped of a gold medal after he failed to show up for a drugs test yesterday.
Two retired executives from Delta Air Lines #39; glory days endorsed current management #39;s turnaround plans as the carrier tries this week to win deep concessions from pilots and creditors.
PARIS : European aircraft maker Airbus aims to apply for loans worth up to one billion euros (1.24 billion dollars) from European states for its new A350 airplane program, chief executive Noel Forgeard was quoted as saying in the Financial Times.
ATHENS France, Britain and the United States issued a joint challenge Thursday to Germany #39;s gold medal in equestrian team three-day eventing.
PARIS, Nov 12 (AFP) - The European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Company (EADS) will soon launch a bid for French defence electronics group Thales in a deal orchestrated by the French government, which owns just over 15 percent of EADS and 31 percent of
LOS ANGELES: Rupert Murdoch #39;s News Corp has posted a 28 per cent rise in quarterly profit as strong results in newspapers, broadcast and cable television countered weaker performances in its film and Italian pay-TV divisions.
US stocks fell on Thursday, led by a decline in the technology sector following a batch of sales warnings from chip makers and a jump in oil prices to nearly $43 a barrel.
For a guy who would have preferred to see the SkyDome lid closed, Noel Prefontaine did a fine job of putting the boot to the football yesterday in the chilly, open air of the topless stadium.
SunTrust Banks Inc., the eighth- largest US bank, fired its chief credit officer and two other executives and said it made numerous errors #39; #39; in determining how much to set aside for bad loans in this year #39;s first half.
LONDON : British unemployment fell for the 15th month in a row in August to reach the lowest level for 29 years, official figures showed.
Sachin Tendulkar was dismissed for eight on his return to international cricket as world champions Australia left India in deep trouble in the third Test on Wednesday.
Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho was left disappointed after his side were defeated 2-1 by his former club Porto. Mourinho blamed a lack of motivation as Chelsea sunk to their first Champions League defeat of the season.
A Cambridge power plant reduced its emissions last year when it switched from oil to natural gas. But environmentalists gathered yesterday to say that the plant simply traded one kind of pollution for another, now threatening the water instead of the air.
After a bumpy ride toward becoming a publicly traded company, Google Inc. finally saw its stock start trading on the Nasdaq exchange at around noon Eastern Daylight Time Thursday and with a strong opening at $100.01, ...
Despite heading to Duke to play basketball, Greg Paulus of Christian Brothers Academy is the 2004 Gatorade National Football Player of the Year.
He should have been in jail. Or maybe locked down in a hospital. Or maybe in a life-altering boot-camp drug treatment program. Some doctor, some jailer or some judge should have known to save Ken Caminiti from himself.
BOSTON (Reuters) - The New York Yankees scored the most runs in an American League Championship Series game as they pounded the Boston Red Sox 19-8 on Saturday to move within one victory of a return trip to the World Series.
Brazilian Congress gives the green light to a long awaited overhaul of bankruptcy laws, which it hopes will reduce business and credit costs.
Retail sales during the important Thanksgiving weekend showed some strength, with sales measures released Monday reflecting year-over-year growth.
Fannie Mae (FNM) CEO Franklin Raines defended his stewardship of the housing finance giant Wednesday, as a former employee said Raines ignored warnings of accounting problems.
Colonial BancGroup of Montgomery, Ala., Tuesday agreed to acquire Union Bank of Florida in in Sunrise, Fla. Under terms of the deal Colonial BancGroup will acquire Union Bank
The Food and Drug Administration told Merck #38; Co. that it would approve the company's successor drug to the now defunct pain reliever Vioxx if it provides further safety and efficacy data, the big pharmaceutical company announced Friday.
LOS ANGELES -- Picked apart all afternoon by uncannily accurate California quarterback Aaron Rodgers, the USC defense chose the game #39;s biggest moment to make the game #39;s biggest stand.
OTTAWA (CP) - It may be a bit early to take this promise to the bank, but Finance Minister Ralph Goodale says he wants to bring in more personal and business tax cuts.
Futures on the Standard amp; Poor #39;s 500 Index rose after a government report showed retail sales rose more than forecast last month.
Delta Air Lines #39; third-largest hub at Salt Lake City International Airport will be spared from closure and will gain 58 daily flights, including one to Mexico, under a far-reaching
Maria Sharapova and Yelena Dementyeva both lifted titles Sunday to underline Russia #39;s domination of the women #39;s game. In Seoul, South Korea, Wimbledon champion Sharapova trounced Marta Domachowska 6-1, 6-1 to win the Korea Open.
Microsoft has turned the channel on its slow-moving television software business by winning a key contract for its new Internet-based TV platform from SBC Communications.
AP - Though Southern California went to halftime down 11 points, Matt Grootegoed knew the Trojans were going to win as soon as he stepped into the locker room.
Reuters - First Industrial Realty Trust (FR.N) on Monday raised its profit forecast for the third quarter and full year, citing higher gains from the sale of properties owned by its joint venture.
Asian stocks rose in US trading. Sony Corp. gained after the world #39;s No. 2 consumer-electronics maker agreed to resolve a dispute over patents related to digital cameras.
Americas biggest corporations are increas- ingly funneling profits earned in the United States to tax havens around the globe, accord- ing to a new study.
A day after signing his first long-term contract as an NBA head coach, Lawrence Frank wasn #39;t in a mood to celebrate. Between the joy of extending his childhood dream and the news conference to announce it
ATHENS (Reuters) - Ian Thorpe became Australia's greatest Olympian and staked a claim to being the best swimmer of his generation when he won "the race of the century" at Athens on Monday.
The free-agent closer Troy Percival and the Detroit Tigers agreed Wednesday to a two-year, $12 million contract, a move that will lead to Ugueth Urbina #39;s becoming a setup man or his being traded.
CORAL GABLES, Fla. -- After his team's dramatic victory over No. 7 Connecticut last week, Minuteman Anthony Anderson said, quot;We've been saying this is our year. quot;
MAUI, Hawaii (Sports Network) - Jeff Horner scored 18 points and Pierre Pierce added 16, as Iowa knocked off 12th-ranked Louisville, 76-71, in the opening round of the Maui Invitational at the Lahaina Civic Center.
Davie, FL (Sports Network) - The Miami Dolphins may be without linebacker Junior Seau for the remainder of the season, depending on the severity of his pectoral injury.
NEGOTIATIONS: The NHL and the players association haven #39;t held a negotiating session since Sept. 9 -- one week before the lockout was imposed, but NHLPA senior director Ted Saskin met with Bill Daly, the NHL #39;s chief legal officer on Oct. 26 in New York.
The much-awaited #39;Transformation Plan #39; for Delta Air Lines Inc., one of Tampa International Airport #39;s largest carrier, will include further job cuts, wage and benefit reductions and a new strategy that will help Delta revitalize its entire business.
Blue Cross amp; Blue Shield of Massachusetts plans to spend about $50 million to electronically link doctors, hospitals, and other healthcare providers in three Massachusetts communities, allowing them to share and access patients' medical records.
ST. LOUIS -- Even a cookie-cutter stadium -- which is the pejorative term that came to describe the multipurpose bowls that seemed to spring up simultaneously in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Atlanta, Queens, Philadelphia, and St. Louis in the late 1960s and early '70s -- can have their quirks.
Tim Henman will begin his bid to win the Davidoff Swiss Indoors for the third time when he takes on Antony Dupuis of France in Basle today.
England international Michael Owen scored his second goal in two games to earn Real Madrid a morale-boosting 1-0 win at home to champions Valencia in the Primera Liga on Saturday.
Houston- Although the index finger on his throwing hand was so stiff Saturday he couldn #39;t bend it, St. Louis Cardinals reliever Steve Kline is still hoping to pitch again this postseason.
The US energy company Halliburton says it has discovered that a consortium linked to it considered paying bribes to Nigerian officials on an energy project at least 10 years ago.
Jerome Williams pitched seven strong innings in his first start in two months and the San Francisco Giants jumped back into a tie for the wild-card lead by beating the Padres, 4-1, last night in San Diego.
When four years ago Ian Schrager opened the Sanderson, his latest venture in ultra-hip hotels with chic interiors, eye-watering prices and a clientele to match, he declared: quot;London is hot right now.
Well, let this be a lesson to us all. There really is no egregious mistake in the world of professional flesh peddling that cannot be undone.
NEW DELHI, SEPTEMBER 30: Chances of a judicial intervention before the start of the India-Australia cricket series receded today, as the Supreme Court remained engrossed in the legal debate on whether the BCCI should be treated as an authority of
Darlington, SC (Sports Network) - Jimmie Johnson captured the 55th and final running of the Southern 500 at the Darlington Raceway.
A flurry of year-end dealmaking hit the tech sector as companies maneuvered to get out of low-margin businesses, fill holes in their product lines and take financial advantage of the recent run-up in share prices.
Shrugging off the boos and jeers that delayed the start, Shawn Crawford led an American sweep of the medals in the men #39;s 200-metre race yesterday at the Summer Games.
AP - Assets of the nation's retail money market mutual funds rose by #36;4.36 billion in the latest week to #36;829.70 billion, the Investment Company Institute said Thursday.
This was not one for the books. It was one for the looks. How many times had Sara McMann seen the look? She would tell people she was a wrestler, and their eyebrows would
DALLAS (Reuters) - A fare hike that raises tickets by $5 each way announced by American Airlines earlier this week to offset record high jet fuel appears to be sticking among other U.S. airlines, an industry source said on Friday.
NEW YORK - Last night, the US Food and Drug Administration approved Tarceva, a pill that extends survival in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients for whom chemotherapy has failed.
(Washington-AP, October 19, 2004, 8:54 am) It seems as though lots of people want a Cadillac Escalade EXT. But those who have one didn #39;t necessarily pay for it.
Moscow, Nov 26 - Nathalie Dechy picked up where Tatiana Golovin left off on Wednesday, defeating Maria Sanchez Lorenzo 6-2, 6-4 to give France a confidence-boosting 2-0 lead in their Fed Cup semi-final against Spain.
Less than 24 hours after Pedro Martnez stood inside Shea Stadium for his introduction as the Mets' newest pitcher, he was on an island in the Caribbean Sea.
Chicago Bears: Their quarterback situation a mess, the Bears will bring in Tim Couch for a physical and a tryout Friday. Starter Rex Grossman is out for the season with a knee injury and backup Jonathan Quinn has struggled in two starts.
Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson #39;s bid to have Arsenal duo Dennis Bergkamp and Thierry Henry punished for what he believes was foul play during last month #39;s #39;Battle of Old Trafford #39; are set to come to nothing because of Football Association (FA
Major League Baseball is set to confirm that the Montreal Expos will move to Washington for the 2005 season, according to reports.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were set to open lower on Friday, after August payroll data came in slightly below expectations.
Singapore Telecommunications , southeast Asia #39;s largest phone company, said on Monday its mobile phone user base rose 7.7 per cent in September to 56 million, reflecting robust growth in regional markets.
AP - Minnesota Timberwolves center Michael Olowokandi was suspended by the team for a second game Friday night, one day after police used a stun gun to subdue him when he refused to leave a club.
India need another 210 runs to win the Chennai Test after ending the fourth day at 19-0. Virender Sehwag was batting on 12 and Yuvraj Singh on 7. Earlier, Anil Kumble claimed 6-133, his 26th fifth-wicket haul, to help India bowl Australia out for 369.
AT the halfway point of yesterday #39;s Melbourne Cup, Glen Boss admitted to a feeling of deja vu as he sat in 14th spot on favourite Makybe Diva.
Redskins decided to rebuild their once-proud NFC East teams, they went to the recycling bin. The Redskins brought back Joe Gibbs, the man who led them to three Super Bowls before leaving to make a dent in NASCAR.
Here's one for nostalgia buffs: the Franco-American brand -- best known for SpaghettiOs -- is no more.
For senior guard Elton Brown, his Mom and late uncle are never more than an arm's length away.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury debt prices fell for a second straight session on Wednesday as buyers' resistance to higher prices spawned a wave of profit-taking.
AP - The NFL agreed Monday to contract extensions with Fox and CBS to televise Sunday afternoon games for six more years, deals worth a combined #36;8 billion.
Tesco today impressed the City with a surge in third-quarter sales as it boosted market share in clothing and electrical goods. Despite a tougher environment on the high street, Britain #39;s leading retailer
Employer-sponsored health insurance premiums rose 11.2 percent this year, registering the fourth consecutive double-digit annual increase and pushing the cost of family coverage under the most common type of plan past $10,000, according to a new survey.
To hear him, you #39;d think the guy was some wide-eyed, talk-radio type prattling on about the latest kid to slip a couple of tackles.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Tommy Haas continued his impressive comeback from injury with a dominant 6-2, 6-3, 7-5 victory over Brazilian qualifier Ricardo Mello Sunday to reach the fourth round of the U.S. Open.
FAO Schwarz, the upmarket toy retailer that has been closed for nearly a year, yesterday opened its redesigned flagship Manhattan store in time for the start of the holiday spending season.
ithout depositing any driving rain or generating any gusty wind, Hurricane Frances reached into the Bronx yesterday and disrupted the Yankees #39; baseball schedule.
Reuters - The Boston Red Sox, who ended an 86-year-old "curse" by winning the World Series in a four-game sweep of the St. Louis Cardinals, have been named Sports Illustrated's 2004 Sportsmen of the Year.
Redskins coach Joe Gibbs, center, looks onto the field while officials review an apparent fumble by quarterback Mark Brunell during the third quarter against the Baltimore Ravens.
Lleyton Hewitt strong first serve and excellent court coverage ended the best week of Gilles Muller #39;s career. Hewitt beat the Luxembourg player 6-3, 6-4 Sunday in the final of the Legg Mason Tennis Classic.
Madden NFL 2005 sells more than 1.3 million copies in its first week. Also: Viacom considers buying Midway Games hellip;. China Mobile sanctions Go2joy mobile messaging unit hellip;. and more.
All the action as Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski take on Julian Knowle and Alexander Peya in the doubles of the Davis Cup qualifier between Great Britain and Austria.
Aluminum producer Alcoa Inc. said Thursday that third-quarter profit rose 1.1 percent in the third quarter compared with a year ago, but fell significantly compared with the previous three months.
The Terrapins found the lanes underneath closed and the basket unreachable against an impenetrable Badgers defense, and No. 25 Wisconsin (3-1) beat No.
SHOPPING centres giant Westfield has cut a deal with fellow Australian developer Multiplex and billionaires Simon and David Reuben to carve up property group Chelsfield in a purchase worth 2.
The Gunners have one more chance to prove they can cut it in Europe. Arsenal needs to beat Norway #39;s Rosenborg at Highbury on Tuesday to guarantee a place in the knockout stage of the Champions League.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Winemaker Robert Mondavi Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MOND.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MOND.O&lt;/A&gt;, in the process of recapitalizing by eliminating the controlling voting rights of the Mondavi family, said on Tuesday that Michael Mondavi had resigned as an officer and vice chairman.
USC: Reggie Bush is all that. It #39;s fitting that The President, as he #39;s nicknamed, chose the nation #39;s capital as the venue for his national coming-out party.
MANCHESTER, Nov 1 (SW) - Following Djibril Cisse #39;s horrendous double break injury at the weekend, Liverpool have revealed the operation the striker underwent yesterday had been a success.
The Greek sprinters Kostadinos Kederis and Ekaterina Thanou face possible jail sentences after being charged with avoiding a drug test on the eve of this summer #39;s Olympics and faking a motorcycle accident several hours later.
VIRGINIA WATER, England (Reuters) - Defending champion Ernie Els and Briton Lee Westwood built healthy leads at the halfway point of the World Match Play semi-finals at Wentworth on Saturday.
ST. LOUIS -- This was the kind of deflating loss that would send some teams -- the Cubs come to mind -- into the fetal position. Twelve grueling innings, a booming walkoff two-run homer and 52,144 people screaming loud enough to make your ears ring.
(AGI) - Milan, Italy, Oct. 5 - A preliminary court hearing in the Parmalat case was held today. Judge Tacconi scheduled the next hearing on October 29.
Nissan Motor Co. said Thursday it will halt operations at three of its plants in Japan for five days starting later this month due to a steel sheet shortage.
Patients with degenerative disc disease in their spines may have an alternative to getting their vertebrae fused, which alleviates pain but limits motion.
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. - Playing in its first-ever Big Ten/ACC Challenge game at Assembly Hall, the Indiana Hoosiers put up a fight, but fell on the short end, 70-63, to No.
Olympic champion Tyler Hamilton will keep his gold medal because of a laboratory error, but the Marblehead cyclist still may face a two-year ban for blood doping after another positive test this month.
Two weeks after the fact, lawyers for the NBA and the players #39; union had their own little brawl. Attorneys for the two sides fought before an arbitrator and in federal
So you've decided to sell your small company. You figure that all you have to do is put an ad in a newspaper or trade publication and you'll have a buyer in no time.
We keep up with what's important about Select Comfort, in case you don't have time.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - McDonald's Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=MCD.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;MCD.N&lt;/A&gt; on Wednesday said worldwide sales at its namesake restaurants open more than a year rose 3.9 percent in August, helped by strong sales of new menu items like fried chicken strips.
The crowd chanted Yao Ming's name all game, soaking up the novelty of the NBA in another tribute to a player who is fast becoming a one-man basketball marketing force in China.
AP - Roger Clemens and the powerful Houston lineup made sure the Astros got off to a good start in their quest to finally win a playoff series. While Clemens continually pitched out of trouble, Brad Ausmus, Lance Berkman, Carlos Beltran and Jason Lane homered for the Astros to lead a 9-3 rout of the Atlanta Braves in Game 1 of their NL division series Wednesday.
Arsenal midfielder Edu has confirmed he will leave the Premiership champions next summer and move to La Liga. Edu, whose contract with the London club expires at the end of the season, says he has yet to make
NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - US employers added far more jobs in October, the best performance in six months, according to a government report Friday that came in well above Wall Street expectations.
NEW YORK - Time Warner Inc. said Wednesday it had created a $500 million legal reserve to deal with ongoing federal probes of its America Online division.
Barry Bonds is being linked more than ever to what could be baseball's biggest scandal since the Chicago White Sox threw the 1919 World Series.
On Wednesday morning Sachin Tendulkar was at the Brabourne stadium, to egg on his Mumbai teammates. Not only did he have a chat with the Mumbai captain and coach and see the practice session through, but also
Japanese mobile phone company DoCoMo is in talks to buy 3G handsets from Motorola, the world's second largest handset maker.
The US Supreme Court has refused to hear an appeal of a lower court decision upholding the Federal Trade Commission #39;s imposition of a national do not call registry.
When Notre Dame fired football coach Tyrone Willingham yesterday, it set into motion a series of events that many involved think will result in Utah coach Urban Meyer coming to South Bend.
MOBILE, Ala. (SportsTicker) - After having the door opened for her, Heather Daly-Donofrio is walking right in. Ineligible to participate in the past, Daly-Donofrio carded an 8-under-par 64 in Saturday #39;s
Raptors guard Vince Carter asked out of Toronto before training camp, and it now appears the disgruntled five-time All-Star might get his wish.
British teenager Amir Khan has failed to win a gold medal in the Athens Olympics after losing his lightweight division boxing final.
Kerry Wood returned to Chicago on Wednesday to be examined by a doctor because of back problems that nearly forced the Cubs pitcher to miss Tuesday #39;s start against Pittsburgh.
Truck maker Navistar International Corp. said late Thursday US securities regulators are seeking information related to its pension accounting practices.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Kevin Brown pitched six innings and Derek Jeter notched three hits and drove in three runs to lead the New York Yankees to an 8-4 victory over the Minnesota Twins in the American League Divisional Series Friday.
ROME: AC Milan captain Paolo Maldini (pic) believes adversity will bring out the best in his faltering team when they visit high-flying Lazio tomorrow.
The Irish team to play the USA Eagles shows eleven changes, two positional, from the side that defeated South Africa 17 - 12 on Saturday.
PALM HARBOR, United States : Vijay Singh shot a six-under par 65 to post a five-stroke victory at the Chrysler Championship and claim his ninth tournament win of the season.
European finance chiefs take the US to task for allowing the dollar to slide, saying it puts Europe's economy at risk.
Two goals from Croatian striker Ivan Klasnic kept Werder Bremen #39;s Group G hopes very much alive. Anderlecht went ahead through Christian Wilhelmsson near the half-hour but Klasnic struck either side of the
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- Coca-Cola Co. said Thursday it anticipates weakness in several key markets in 2005 and lowered long-term targets for both volume and operating income growth.
Adelaide, November 27: Justin Langer made 215 of Australias 575 for eight declared before New Zealand stumbled to 56 for two at the close of the second days play in the second Test on Saturday.
Mountain biker Marie-Helene Premont of Chateau-Richer, Que. captured the silver on a tough and sun-baked course in the suburbs of Athens today, finishing behind winner Gunn-Rita Dahle of Norway.
CBC SPORTS ONLINE - Major League Baseball players and owners are currently meeting to hammer out a deal that would toughen rules on steroid testing in baseball.
The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on Tuesday approved Cingular Wireless #39; 41-billion-US dollar acquisition of AT amp;T Wireless Services Inc.
French bank Societe Generales third-quarter profit rose a forecast-beating 10 per cent on consumer banking growth, gains in investment banking, and a sharp fall in bad debt provisions, it said on Tuesday.
The world #39;s top finance officials on Friday asked oil-producing nations to step up production and agreed it was crucial to work out exactly why prices
Leading OPEC producer Saudi Arabia said on Monday in Vienna, Austria, that it had made a renewed effort to deflate record high world oil prices by upping crude output again.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Lifestyle guru Martha Stewart said on Wednesday she wants to start serving her prison sentence for lying about a suspicious stock sale as soon as possible, so she can put her "nightmare" behind her.
The move is a step sought by two unions in exchange for dropping legal action against the carrier. If the hiring of Bridge Associates LLC is formally approved in bankruptcy court, the move will end a two-month
The Notre Dame message boards are no longer discussing whether Tyrone Willingham should be fired. Theyre already arguing about whether the next coach should be Barry Alvarez or Steve Spurrier.
Florida Marlins right-hander AJ Burnett will miss his next scheduled start because of elbow inflammation, an ailment that could hurt the team #39;s chances in the NL wild-card race.
Just a week ago, following an astonishingly poor effort in their season-opening loss to the Clippers, the plan seemed clear: Hope for the top pick in the lottery.
Television #39;s dean of financial news, Louis Rukeyser, is giving up his CNBC show quot;Louis Rukeyser #39;s Wall Street. quot;.
ATHENS : Felix Sanchez gave the Dominican Republic their first ever athletics Olympic gold medal with a devastating display in the 400 metres hurdles.
Ireland #39;s fine start to the World Cup qualification endures. Four points from two matches provide strong foundations, though the performance here might have yielded less.
BRISTOL, Connecticut (Ticker) - The Houston Astros hope their miraculous run towards the postseason spills over into their National League Division Series with the Atlanta Braves on Wednesday.
Defensive end Shaun Ellis and the New York Jets are quot;real, real close quot; to an agreement on a contract extension. Ellis said Sunday that as far as he knew, there was no final agreement.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Officials had to separate the U.S. and Spanish coaches when an argument erupted at the end of the game as the United States beat Spain 102-94 in the Olympic men's basketball quarter-finals Thursday.
A hugely entertaining game between Scotland #39;s two victorious UEFA Cup sides saw Rangers edge ahead in the Scottish Premier League title race for the first time since October 2003, in a match
West Palm Beach, FL (Sports Network) - Tom Lehman will be named the United States Ryder Cup captain for the 2006 matches, according to The Palm Beach Post.
With the stock market looking to start a fourth week of gains, another drop in oil prices gave aid to some stocks Monday but pulled the rug out from under others.
Chad Pennington agreed to a $64 million, seven-year contract extension with the New York Jets yesterday that includes $23 million in guaranteed money.
MONTREAL (CP) - Molson Inc. and Adolph Coors Co. are sweetening their brewery merger plan with a special dividend to Molson shareholders worth $381 million.
Frank Gore's 18-yard touchdown run in overtime caps a late rally and gives No. 5 Miami a 16-10 win over No. 4 Florida State in the Atlantic Coast Conference opener Friday.
More bad blood between the Red Sox and Yankees in Boston #39;s 11-to-4 win yesterday. Boston #39;s Pedro Astacio and New York #39;s Brad Halsey were ejected in the eighth inning for throwing at batters.
AP - St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Chris Carpenter left Saturday's start against the Arizona Diamondbacks in the fourth inning with a strained right biceps.
Microsoft Corp. is offering a quot;preview release quot; of MSN Music, its answer to Apple #39;s popular iTunes Music Store. The music download service is available in the United States exclusively for users of the Windows
Georgetown's offense sputters in a 17-6 loss to Lafayette on Saturday. The defeat drops the Hoyas to 1-1 and keeps them from their first 2-0 start since 1999.
Manchester United are not likely to find out if Malcolm Glazer intends to launch a takeover bid until next week at the earliest. The American business tycoon is widely believed to be pondering a bid for the
It takes a lion #39;s share of guts and bravado to provoke Michigan #39;s receiving corps, especially for a defensive back without any career interceptions.
NAPLES - Justin Leonard and Steve Flesch combined for a 9-under 63 and a one-stroke lead over Hank Kuehne and former Florida State standout Jeff Sluman on Friday after the first round of the Franklin Templeton Shootout.
Cricket-Tendulkar gets go-ahead for Australia tests October 1, 2004 10:54:13 BANGALORE, India, Oct 1 (Reuters) - Sachin Tendulkar was named in India #39;s 14-player squad on Friday for the first two tests against Australia.
Austin, TX (Sports Network) - Cedric Benson rushed for 140 yards and five touchdowns, as the sixth-ranked Texas Longhorns rallied from a 28-point deficit to erupt for a 56-35 victory over 19th-ranked Oklahoma State.
The government is paying hundreds of millions of dollars in unnecessary subsidies to student loan companies even though the White House has the authority to cut them off.
Dolphins owner H. Wayne Huizenga said Wednesday that the franchise is quot;working on a plan quot; for improving the NFL #39;s only winless team, but firing coach Dave Wannstedt or General Manager Rick Spielman
In a week that featured the breakdown of trade talks involving Randy Johnson and Jason Giambi #39;s steroid admission, trades for Felix Rodriguez and Mike Stanton sure seem trivial.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks shot higher on Wednesday as oil prices had their biggest one-day drop in three years and economic data showed strength in the U.S. manufacturing sector and personal spending.
BOSTON (Reuters) - Diversified manufacturer Textron Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=TXT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;TXT.N&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday posted a higher quarterly profit and lifted its full-year earnings estimate on a strong performance by its Cessna business jet division, sending its shares up nearly 5 percent.
LOS ANGELES - Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (news - web sites) has introduced an environmentally friendly Hummer - but not the converted hydrogen-powered car he promised voters he would build when he campaigned for office.
Banking group Barclays today took the first steps towards establishing its Barclaycard operation in the United States credit card market.
Scottish football (soccer) coach Graeme Souness is quitting the English Premiership #39;s Blackburn Rovers to become the manager of the Newcastle United squad.
AP - Consumer prices calmed down in November, helped by smaller increases in energy and food. That means the Federal Reserve probably will continue raising interest rates only gradually to keep inflation under control.
Merger will make buyer No. 3 in marketMerger to make Penn National 3rd biggest casino operator. BILOXI - Penn National Gaming Inc.
Thanks to Brian McBride and Eddie Johnson, the United States can advance to the finals round of qualifying for the 2006 World Cup with a victory over Panama next week.
Zee Telefilms is expected to file a petition in the Supreme Court today against the Board of Control for Cricket in India #39;s (BCCI) decision to cancel a tender awarded to it to telecast Indian cricket team #39;s matches over the next four years.
NEW YORK -- World number two Andy Roddick and 37th-ranked Mardy Fish will lead the United States in next month #39;s Davis Cup final against hosts Spain.
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla., Nov. 8 - When Omar Minaya checked into the Ritz-Carlton on Monday for the major league baseball general managers meetings, he had a receiving line of New York reporters waiting for him in the lobby.
TOKYO (Reuters) - The dollar softened on Thursday after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan sounded more cautious on the U.S. economic recovery than many investors had expected.
A federal appeals court has cleared the way for Alpharma Inc. (ALO.N: Quote, Profile, Research) to launch a generic form of Pfizer Inc #39;s (PFE.
Sixth-seeded Marat Safin of Russia comfortably beat Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-6 (5), 6-3 to win a record-tying third Paris Masters men #39;s tennis title Sunday.
OTTAWA (Reuters) - The Bank of Canada raised its overnight interest rate a quarter percentage point on Tuesday to 2.50 percent as expected, and made clear it would keep raising rates even as it lowered its forecast for Canadian growth.
Ever hear of Ed Owens? I doubt it. Owens is one of the more publicity-shy executives at Wellington Management Co., itself one of the most publicity-averse investment firms in Boston. That's one reason Owens is the city's best mutual fund manager you probably don't know.
Gulf oil ministers on Saturday shrugged off a sharp decline in oil prices, saying the market #39;s reaction to OPEC #39;s decision the day before to reduce output by 1 million barrels was normal.
I know you don #39;t care about people like me. Actually, you and the rest of the entertainment history don #39;t care about people, period.
Fewer Americans filed jobless claims last week and worker productivity slowed sharply in the third quarter, government data showed on Thursday, hinting at better conditions in the country #39;s sluggish labor market.
Credit cards issuers may face penalty from the regulators as credit cards solicitation is not as reliable as they are said. Consumers sometimes are not given the whole information about the possibly imposed
Japan #39;s Supreme Court has ruled that UFJ bank can pull out of a deal to sell its trust business to rival Sumitomo. The ruling removes a key obstacle to a planned merger between UFJ and Mitsubishi Financial, which would create the world #39;s biggest bank.
Ireland stopped South Africa #39;s grand slam bid in its tracks as world champions England and southern hemisphere heavyweights New Zealand swept to easy victories in yesterday #39;s internationals.
Australia captain Adam Gilchrist won the toss and chose to bat first against India in the second cricket Test in Chennai. Australia, which won the first Test by 217 runs after Gilchrist
The battle for control of Australian Leisure amp; Hospitality Group erupted into an unseemly free-for-all yesterday as Woolworths set a tight four-hour deadline for fund managers to deal themselves
NEW YORK Stocks moved modestly higher Friday as stable oil prices and a report on durable goods orders cheered investors at the end of a losing week.
New US applications for unemployment benefits dropped last week partly as a result of Hurricane Charley, the Labor Department reported Thursday.
LONDON : Saracens captain Hugh Vyvyan has been called up to the England replacements #39; bench for Saturday #39;s Test match against Canada at Twickenham as a result of an injury to back row forward Joe Worsley.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Chipper Jones hit a three-run homer and J.D. Drew also went deep as the Atlanta Braves continued to close in on another division title with an 8-1 win over the Florida Marlins in Miami Friday.
The last time Louisiana Tech visited Starkville, in 1999, they left with an upset defeat at the hands of Mississippi State. Five Novembers later, the Lady Techsters returned to Humphrey Coliseum...and the Lady Bulldogs ready to do it again.
AP - China can manage to slow its roaring economy to a sustainable level, but only if it avoids loosening curbs on lending and investment too quickly, the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday.
No tickets matched all six numbers in the latest WinFall drawing, raising the jackpot for Saturday #39;s game to $2.9 million. Saturday #39;s $2.
Inter emerged as the winners over Anderlecht in Brussels to claim the first spot in the Champions League Group G. The nerazzurri took the lead nearly immediately when Adriano from the left served a low powerful
Oil prices broke above $46 on Monday after Russian oil giant YUKOS said it would cut some oil shipments to China, the first toll on exports from the company #39;s financial turmoil.
A FLOOD of nasty e-mails has made Ryder Cup star Paul Casey realise he made the biggest mistake of his career so far by talking about quot;hating quot; Americans.
quot;It was an extremely difficult decision, quot; Athletic Director Ted Leland said, quot;but I simply felt that the program was in need of new direction and leadership.
Dell Inc. will recall about 990,000 power adapters for some of its laptop computer models because of a risk of overheating, which could lead to a fire or electrical shock, the US Consumer Product Safety Commission said on Friday.
A group led by Sony of America reached a tentative agreement to buy Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for about $4.8 billion in cash, snatching it from Time Warner at the 11th hour.
The Australian share market has started the week a little in the red as high crude oil prices prompted investor caution. The All Ordinaries slipped almost three points to 3,632.
Whitney Tilson argues that the exceptional money managers are in hedge funds.
ATHENS (Reuters) - The United States softball team came into Athens on a simple mission -- take home their third straight gold medal or call the trip to the Olympics a failure.
Australia #39;s Loretta Harrop dominated and lost. Susan Williams, of Littleton, wasn #39;t supposed to be there but left with the bronze, the only American medal.
NEW YORK (Sports Network) - The New York Jets and quarterback Chad Pennington finally agreed on a long-term contract extension Wednesday.
Reuters - Rising oil prices will weigh on U.S. economic growth, but the increases seen so far will not derail the expansion and need not fuel a troubling inflation, Federal Reserve Board Governor Ben Bernanke said on Monday.
Reuters - U.S. investors, spooked early on Thursday by fears that China's first interest rate hike in nearly a decade would cool the country's booming economy, recovered their nerve in midday trading on the view that any threat to American manufacturers would be short-lived.
AP - Even though Byron Leftwich's throwing arm is getting quite a workout, it probably won't help the Jacksonville Jaguars the next two weeks.
OS ANGELES, Aug. 20 (Reuters) - Major League Baseball has approved the creation of a national cable television channel devoted to the sport, but regular-season games may be confined to the bench for the network #39;s first year, a top league ...
SINGAPORE: Oil prices stayed on the boil above $53 a barrel on Monday, bolstered by persistent anxiety over Opec member Nigeria and the nearly month-long loss of a quarter of US Gulf of Mexico production, traders said.
IBM, which pioneered the personal computer business in the 1980s, is said to be negotiating the sale of its PC unit in a move that could reshape the industry.
SAN FRANCISCO - Dustan Mohr of the San Francisco Giants sat in front of his locker with his head buried in his hands. Even in a new ballpark, right field in San Francisco remains treacherous territory.
Reuters - The scorecard of U.S. corporate earnings ended on a positive note on Tuesday with chip maker Intel Corp. and Internet media company Yahoo Inc reassuring investors that they were still growing despite tough market conditions.
Television networks have worked hard in the last two years to strike their own product placement deals, closing the gap with the movies.
US Democratic presidential candidate Sen. John Kerry said he would expand the low-income housing focus of mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie
AP - Kennedy Winston scored 21 points and Chuck Davis had 18 points and nine rebounds to lead No. 18 Alabama to a 72-54 victory over Alabama State on Tuesday night.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Kim Clijsters will be out of action for the rest of the season but does not need more surgery on her wrist after suffering an injury in the Belgian Open.
LIVERPOOL #39;S chances of reaching the next stage of the Champions League took a dent here last night when a goal from Javier Saviola just after the interval was enough to give Monaco all three points.
WALL Street #39;s broad market indicators ended nearly flat today after an early rally attempt ran out of steam, but tech stocks held on for solid gains.
Police said they arrested the chief executive of Beijing-backed China Aviation Oil #39;s subsidiary in Singapore on Wednesday, following the company #39;s announcement last week of massive trading losses.
Credit Suisse First Boston maintained quot;neutral quot; ratings on Guidant (nyse: GDT - news - people ) and Johnson amp; Johnson (nyse: JNJ - news - people ), saying a near-term acquisition of the former by the latter values Guidant at $76.
The European Union judge deciding whether Microsoft will have to reform its business practices will continue to take into account arguments made by Novell and a prominent
Never in the University of Wisconsin football programs 115-year history have the Badgers been 10-0. That could happen today in East Lansing, Mich.
Symantec (SYMC:Nasdaq - news - research) Thursday said it will acquire rival software company Veritas Software (VRTS:Nasdaq - news - research)in an all-stock deal.
Stocks inched higher on Friday in lackluster post-Thanksgiving trading, helped by steel producers amid concerns of a steel shortage and retailers as consumers piled into stores at the start of the holiday-shopping season.
Mexico is poised overtake Canada in annual passenger vehicle sales by 2010, a situation one economist says could make it more difficult for Canada to lure future investments from automakers, including the construction of new assembly plants and
But the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) said the pace of production had risen more slowly than in August. The news will help soothe fears that the US economic recovery may be running out of steam.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average was 0.79 percent higher at midsession on Friday, recovering from an early fall on weak Japanese GDP data as some operators were relieved the figure wasn't negative and others said it merely confirmed their views on the economy.
Planned job cuts at US firms climbed during November, a report said on Tuesday, in a further sign of sluggishness in the labor market.
Alicia Molik #39;s winning run has come to a halt at the quarter final stage of the Advanta Championships in Philadelphia. Molik had beaten Maria Sharapova in the Swisccom Challenge final a fortnight ago but couldn
BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Michigan (Reuters) - The U.S. Ryder Cup team, wounded after a first day mauling, were losing a fight for survival Saturday.
AP - Jamaal Tinsley is making the Indiana Pacers his team. Tinsley had 20 points, 14 assists and seven rebounds to lead the suspension- and injury-depleted Pacers to a 106-102 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Thursday night.
NEW YORK - Investors will be looking ahead to the Federal Reserve #39;s meeting and third-quarter earnings forecasts in Wall Street #39;s short trading week after the Labor Day holiday.
Oil prices hit record highs again Wednesday, amid continuing concerns about the supply of crude oil. In New York, crude oil for future delivery hit an all-time high of $51.
For those sinking in a flood of unpaid loans, don #39;t lose hope. Many people have gone before you and made it out. Simply put, there are debt-defying actions you can take.
Stocks were mixed Wednesday as Federal Reserve policymakers met and investors looked ahead to another hike in interest rates. In early afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial
The Hague, Nov. 7: India did not expect any hiccups in its relationship with the US after the re-election of George W. Bush to the presidency, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said here today.
Nokia, the world #39;s biggest cell phone maker, reported lower third-quarter earnings on Thursday after cutting prices to claw back market share, but said sales were strong as it enters the key Christmas season.
Even a bee sting couldn #39;t spoil Larry Nelson #39;s success at the Constellation Energy Classic. Nelson returns to the site of his famous bee sting Friday when the
Lord Lang of Monkton, the president of the Board of Trade in the last Conservative government, is under pressure to resign from the board of Marsh amp; McLennan, the insurance broker accused of corruption.
If you received a cool catalog in the mail recently, most likely it came from one of the companies under the umbrella of Williams-Sonoma (NYSE: WSM).
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Software maker Computer Associates &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=CA.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;CA.N&lt;/A&gt;on Wednesday said it would cut 800 jobs, or 5 percent of its work force, in one of its biggest cost cutting efforts amid weaker demand and falling prices for software and services.
Geno Auriemma has coached many great players while turning Connecticut into a five-time national champion. He will coach against one of them for the first time Tuesday night.
A five-year-old victim of a Tunisian bomb attack brings a case against Europe's biggest travel agency, TUI.
Chicago and its business community may take a harder hit from Tuesdays bankruptcy filing by ATA Holdings Corp. than the troubled airlines hometown of Indianapolis, a court document shows.
US stocks rose on investors #39; hopes for a year-end rally, while the dollar eked out gains and oil advanced again on Thursday as OPEC ministers supported supply cuts by applying official output quotas.
The union for employees at 14 of Washington #39;s biggest hotels said they want a week to review new proposals made yesterday by management negotiators.
AP - The U.S. economy continued to grow in the early fall despite being buffeted by rising energy costs and hurricanes, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday, providing its last snapshot of business conditions before Election Day.
When Raymond Gilmartin became chairman of the drug maker Merck, it was close to introducing several new medicines. Now, the company is in crisis.
(adds Rangers v Hearts) LONDON, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Spanish striker Nacho Novo steered Rangers to the top of the Scottish Premier League on Sunday after scoring twice in a 3-2 comeback win over Hearts.
Commuters in the Columbus metropolitan area waited an average of 29 hours in traffic tie-ups in 2002 -- making it the 39th most congested large city in the nation, according to a report by the Texas Transportation Institute.
Reuters - U.S. consumer spending was unexpectedly flat in August, government data showed on Thursday, as shoppers exercised restraint after splashing out even more than previously thought during the previous month.
Talk about bad timing. SOHU #39;s (Nasdaq: SOHU) earnings release yesterday came on the heels of news that the Chinese central bank increased interest rates.
Formula One #39;s governing body imposed sweeping technical changes Friday designed to slash costs and improve the qualify of racing starting next year.
November 29, 2004 Seoul said yesterday it would be cautious about levying retaliatory tariffs on US products, after the World Trade Organization on Friday gave Korea and six other economies the green light to enact such tariffs in response to a US
SunTrust Banks Inc., the seventh- largest US bank, said it will restate results for the first and second quarters of this year because the company incorrectly calculated loan losses.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Iran's world judo champion Arash Miresmaeili refused to compete against an Israeli Sunday, triggering a fresh crisis at the Olympic Games where race, creed or color are barred from interfering in sport.
One thing to remember about the playoffs is that it isn #39;t always the best team that wins, but the team that plays the best in October.
The baseball commissioner #39;s office will wait until after a government investigation to examine whether there has been a relationship between New York Mets reliever John Franco and alleged mobsters.
Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) technology major Qualcomm Inc on Friday announced the opening of a research and development (R amp;D) in Hyderabad, to support its chipset development activities.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - PeopleSoft Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=PSFT.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;PSFT.O&lt;/A&gt; on Tuesday denied an analyst report that its executives recently met with Oracle Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=ORCL.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;ORCL.O&lt;/A&gt;, the rival software vendor that last year launched a hostile bid for PeopleSoft.
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co., the world #39;s largest chewing-gum maker, will close a plant in Phoenix that makes Eclipse breath strips and move production to Poland.
The Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, says he believes the current surge in global oil prices will not have the same impact on economic growth and inflation as the energy crisis of the 1970s.
Holiday shoppers, intent on finding bargains, descended on the Washington region's malls this morning, joining a nationwide shopping spree that has come to be known as Black Friday.
Thomson Financial, a unit of financial information provider Thomson Corp., said it received a subpoena from the US Securities and Exchange Commission for documents related to its capital markets intelligence business.
Washington Wizards forward Antawn Jamison hit a jumper from the right corner late in the fourth quarter and lightly tapped his right fist against his chest.
Royal Philips Electronics continued its withdrawal from non-core stakes on Friday by slashing its stake in Atos Origin by more than half.
NAMES Connecticut assistant men's basketball coach Clyde Vaughan resigned following his arrest last week in a prostitution sting by Hartford police, the Hartford Courant and New Haven Register reported on their websites. The resignation came shortly after state officials learned that Vaughan was arrested two previous times on charges similar to the patronizing a prostitute count lodged against him Aug. ...
A GOAL from Fiorentina striker Fabrizio Miccoli gave a rookie Italian side victory over Finland. Coach Marcello Lippi fielded only a handful of the players who have helped his side to the top of Scotland #39;s World Cup qualifying group.
(Sports Network) - The Montreal Expos will get their chance to climb out of the cellar in the National League East this week, as they begin a three-game series against the New York Mets Tuesday at Olympic Stadium.
AP - Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova advanced to the final of the Korea Open on Saturday, beating Anne Kremer 6-0, 6-2.
Time Warner has agreed to pay $210 million to settle criminal securities fraud charges brought by the Justice Department against the company #39;s America Online unit.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Philip Knight, the co-founder of Nike Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NKE.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NKE.N&lt;/A&gt;, is stepping down as chief executive officer, the athletic shoe company said on Thursday.
A page, if not a chapter, has come to closure in the long dark saga of Sept. 11, 2001. A federal jury on Monday ruled that the assault on the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center was in fact two occurrences for insurance purposes.
The 13th-ranked Terps ran No.25 Memphis into submission 84-61 in the Basketball Hall of Fame Tip-Off Classic at Springfield Civic Center.
Economic ministers from the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations agreed Friday to liberalize 10 sectors as a first step toward the creation by 2020 of a regional economic community akin to the European Union.
LONDON BT Group said Monday that it was buying Infonet Services, a US-based company that provides global data-communications services, for $965 million to gain more clients in North America and Asia.
Legendary toy retailer FAO Schwarz will reopen its landmark Manhattan store on Thanksgiving Day, just in time for the holidays. The 65,000-square-foot store at Fifth
Bernhard Langer today sent out his #39;awesome #39; Ryder Cup team with a warning not to celebrate anything yet. The European captain had the luxury of fielding his remaining three rookies in today #39;s opening fourballs
Jonah Lomu, the leading try scorer in rugby World Cups, said he #39;s returning to full health after a kidney transplant six weeks ago.
David Beckham #39;s remarkable goal in England #39;s 2-0 victory over Wales has been overshadowed by the controversy over whether he picked up a second yellow card on purpose.
NOTRE DAME (4-2) vs. NAVY (5-0) &gt; When, where: Tomorrow, noon, at East Rutherford, N.J. TV, radio: Channels 4, 12; WJDA (1300). AP rankings: Neither team is ranked. Last season: Notre Dame won, 27-24. Comments: Notre Dame and Navy play for the 78th consecutive year, making it the longest continuous intersectional rivalry in the country. The Irish hold a 67-9-1 ...
RALEIGH, NC - A month ago, University of Miami quarterback Brock Berlin looked like he could lose his starting job. Now, Berlin has vaulted his way into Heisman Trophy consideration.
First, he won the 500-mile race at Talladega and grabbed the NASCAR Nextel Cup points lead. Two days later, he lost his points lead and $10,000.
Australian stocks rose for the first day in three, paced by oil producers such as Woodside Petroleum Ltd. after crude oil climbed to a record amid concern that hurricane damage in North America will disrupt supply.
William Safire's column has appeared on the Op-Ed Page of The New York Times for more than 30 years.
SEOUL (Reuters) - A powerful South Korean labor union said Sunday hundreds of thousands of its members will strike from next week against a bill that aims to curb union militancy and allow companies to hire more temporary workers.
Manpower Inc. (MAN.N: Quote, Profile, Research) , the world #39;s second-largest staffing company, on Tuesday said third-quarter earnings nearly doubled on stronger currency
AP - Midway through Friday's Ryder Cup matches at Oakland Hills, English golf fan Sean Warden began to wonder: Was it tee time, or tea time?
WASHINGTON Google closed the unusual auction for its shares yesterday and prepared for its stock to begin trading at $85 per share, after weaker-than-expected demand from investors forced it to drastically slash the price and size of ...
Jeff Sluman shattered the course record to take a two-shot lead after the first round of the Chrysler Championship. The American recorded nine birdies in a nine-under-par 62 at the Westin Innisbrook Resort Copperhead Course.
Hewlett-Packard Co., a maker of computers and office equipment that also provides information technology services, said on Wednesday that it will provide the world #39;s largest cell phone maker, Nokia Corp.
World motorsport head Max Mosley has fired a salvo at Formula One carmakers in the wake of Ford #39;s decision to quit, accusing some of damaging the sport by throwing money at it.
New Orleans -- Only one coach could praise his team #39;s effort following the Warriors- Hornets game on Wednesday night. New Orleans coach Byron Scott sat at the podium, looking weary but proud, and spoke freely about his team #39;s intensity.
This is why manager Terry Francona never did tighten the reins on the free spirits in the Red Sox clubhouse. Free spirits can bounce back with the best of them.
Much of the rise in the company #39;s stock yesterday was due to Apple #39;s outlook for the current holiday quarter. Apple said it expects to post a first-quarter profit of between 39 cents and 42
His hair is Manny-style, and his bedroom here is a shrine to the Red Sox left fielder, who gave him bats, spikes, a No. 24 wristband, and hugs.
While some injured Patriots were either practicing or working out yesterday, coach Bill Belichick said it was too early to tell if they'd be available for tomorrow's game with the Ravens.
These Boston Red Sox aren #39;t worried about what happened in New York last year because they think they #39;re better than the team that lost to the Yankees in the 2003 American League Championship Series.
Tottenham caretaker coach Martin Jol has confirmed he #39;s interested in taking over the reigns from Jacques Santini. quot;It #39;s a terrific job, everyone would want a job like that, quot; he said.
Investors looked past a spike in oil prices yesterday, sending stocks higher on the strength of Ford #39;s bullish profit outlook.
To beat Hurricane Jeanne to Florida and protect any players who fear such flying, the Steelers moved up their Miami flight plans to dinnertime tonight -- some 20 hours ahead of their original schedule.
Motorsport.com. There was uproar last week when it was revealed that the provisional 2005 F1 calendar did not feature the British Grand Prix but Silverstone is not dead and buried yet.
Reuters - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the No. 1 U.S. retailer, on Tuesday signaled it will cut prices in the weeks before Christmas after a strategy against deep discounts backfired on the first weekend of the holiday shopping season.
Carlos Emmons, Barrett Green and Terry Cousin, three veteran defensive players the Giants signed in the offseason, have filed appeals through the NFL Players Association of $500 fines Tom Coughlin gave them in training camp.
AILING supermarket chain Sainsbury #39;s is the target of a 5bn takeover bid being prepared by an ex-treasurer of the Conservative Party, it was reported yesterday.
NEW YORK -- An income tax benefit narrowed Computer Associates International Inc #39;s loss dramatically in the second quarter. The company reported Wednesday a net loss of $96 million, or 16 cents per share, but
NEW YORK -- Martha Stewart, trying to clear her tarnished name even as she serves a prison term, claims in her appeal that her trial was tainted by quot;a barrage quot; of unfair suggestions that she was charged with insider trading.
Treasurer Timothy P. Cahill yesterday threatened to pull about $120 million of state business out of Bank of America , and the Romney administration demanded a public accounting of the bank's layoffs and other recent moves in Massachusetts.
MONTROSE, Colo. (Reuters) - The body believed to be that of NBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol's 14-year-old son was recovered on Monday from under the wreckage of an aircraft that crashed in western Colorado and killed two others, officials said.
Johnson amp; Johnson announced that it will acquire Guidant Corp., one of the world #39;s top makers of cardiac devices, for $25.4 billion US.
As Universal Music nears a deal to buy out the rap star Jay-Z and his partners from their venture, Roc-A-Fella Records, the company has renewed an unconventional plan to bring the artist into its executive ranks by naming him president of the Def Jam
Inside the Hynes Convention Center, it feels like 1999. About 5,000 engineers and venture capitalists have gathered here to discuss and to celebrate one of the hottest technology markets in the world -- the use of Internet technology to move telephone calls. This week's VON (for ''Voice over the Net quot;) Conference features the same breathless optimism that drove the Internet ...
Vinny Testaverde heard that grumble growing to a growl, always a warning of yet another Bill Parcells tirade in which the words become sledgehammers.
The F.C.C. voted to relax rules that had required the four large Bell telephone companies to give their rivals access to their networks at sharply discounted wholesale prices.
LONDON (Reuters) - Former European champions Real Madrid and Liverpool scored vastly contrasting victories to reach the knockout round of the Champions League Wednesday.
The molecular structure of Vioxx. The drug approval process for drugs like Vioxx in Canada is largely controlled by the pharmaceutical companies that develop them.
Alan Thompson and Chris Sutton were sent off for Celtic, while Hoops striker Henri Camara and his Rangers counterpart Nacho Novocould yet be punished for apparent violent conduct offences that were either missed or ignored by referee Kenny Clark but
The Food and Drug Administration ignored danger signals from its own scientists about Merck and Co. Inc. #39;s Vioxx painkiller, Sen. Charles Grassley told a hearing Thursday into the drug #39;s withdrawal in September.
Mike Mularkey is shrugging off St. Louis coach Mike Martz #39;s accusations that Buffalo players took cheap shots during their win over the Rams.
NORTHAMPTON -- Zippy Chippy, thoroughbred racing's all-time loser, lost his 100th race in 100 career starts yesterday, finishing last in an eight-horse field at the Three-County Fairgrounds in Northampton.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - World Bank President James Wolfensohn will leave his post at the beginning of June, when his term expires, and a search is now under way for someone to replace him, a U.S. Treasury spokesman said on Monday.
Bengals quarterback Carson Palmer is expected to start Sunday against the Browns despite leaving practice on Thursday with back spasms.
Southwest Airlines is planning to cut as many as 88 flights from its schedule to free up the planes for more profitable markets, according to a published report.
Here it comes. You can feel the rumbling of anticipation now. Just two games into the American League playoffs, we already have a colossal collision coming into focus.
Rise in oil prices ahead of OPEC meeting, sales forecasts by 2 chipmakers send futures lower. NEW YORK (CNN/Money) - Stocks will struggle early Thursday due to another rise in oil prices ahead of Friday #39;s
CHICAGO (Reuters) - The dollar retreated on Thursday following a report showing the U.S. trade deficit grew to the second-highest level on record in August, stoking doubts about U.S. economic growth.
AP - Lauren Shoush and Chelsi Welch each scored 13 points to lead No. 21 Oklahoma to an 88-40 win over Akron in the first round of the Junkanoo Jam on Friday.
: The OPEC price band for crude oil should be raised to reflect inflation since 2001 and the falling US dollar, Purnomo Yusgiantoro, Indonesia #39;s oil minister and secretary general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OAKLAND, Calif. -- Jermaine Dye hit a tying two-run single in the sixth and Adam Melhuse followed with a go-ahead single, leading the Oakland Athletics over former teammate Miguel Tejada and the Baltimore Orioles 4-3 on Monday night.
Millions must work longer or save harder to pay for the pensions blackhole detailed in an official study published tomorrow. At 57 billion the annual savings
Online DVD rental company Netflix Inc. (NFLX.O: Quote, Profile, Research) on Wednesday raised its subscriber and revenue forecasts for the fourth quarter, saying a price cut had helped draw new customers.
News of an RCMP criminal investigation of Nortel Networks and its financial accounting practices sent the company #39;s shares down slightly on Tuesday.
Walt Disney Co. Chief Executive Michael Eisner testified Wednesday that he relied on advice from the company #39;s top lawyer in determining that former Disney President Michael Ovitz couldn #39;t be fired for cause.
Wireless phone service is one of the great bargains of the modern age. When The Post began its annual comparison of cellular calling plans in 1998, $40 bought a lousy 100 minutes of talk time a month.
Though it is only 38 pages, a federal indictment handed up last week offers a panoramic view of the corporate corruption that allegedly permeated San Diego #39;s Peregrine Systems.
InPhonic Inc., an online retailer of wireless services and equipment, gained as much as 32 percent in its trading debut after the company boosted the size its of initial public offering and priced well above estimates.
LONDON (Ticker) - A new route for a London marathon is expected to be unveiled later this week, when details of the city #39;s bid for the 2012 Olympics are announced.
PAULA RADCLIFFE is almost certain to challenge for the 10,000 metres title next summer rather than contest the marathon at the bi-annual World Champion-ships in Finland.
ST. LOUIS -- Over the last three years, the New England Patriots have defined the word quot;team. quot; Yesterday they redefined it and along the way embarrassed an ill-prepared team that couldn't execute, the St. Louis Rams, 40-22, at the Edward Jones Dome.
SINGAPORE (Dow Jones)--Singapore shares ended lower Friday, tracking regional markets on renewed concerns that the sagging US dollar against the Singapore dollar will hurt exports and economic growth.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. #39;s (WMT.N: Quote, Profile, Research) Chief Executive Lee Scott is quot;optimistic quot; about the holiday season and expects a quot;strong finish quot; to the year, he said on Tuesday.
Sony announced on Tuesday that it is planning to launch a smaller and lighter version of its popular PS2 gaming console in November.
Trainer Patrick Biancone says the Lion Heart who will try to get 1 1/4 miles in Saturday #39;s Travers is not the same Lion Heart who failed to get the same distance in the Kentucky Derby 17 weeks ago.
HELSINKI--The world #39;s largest mobile phone maker, Nokia, expects slowing mobile phone growth in 2005 but plans to launch more handsets next year and take market share, the firm said on Thursday.
Miguel Angel Jimenez shot a 5-under-par 66 Saturday to regain the lead in the European Masters with Ryder Cup teammates Luke Donald and Sergio Garcia a stroke behind.
PeopleSoft Inc., the business software-maker, unexpectedly fired Craig Conway, its chief executive, dumping the feisty leader who engineered the company #39;s dogged resistance to Oracle Corp.
Trump Hotels amp; Casino Resorts Inc. (DJTC.OB: Quote, Profile, Research) , which has been on the brink of bankruptcy, said on Thursday that bondholders have approved the company #39;s
Two biotech giants are searching for office space in Cambridge in moves that may foreshadow the establishment of larger research facilities.
AP - Former No. 1 player Justine Henin-Hardenne ended her Monday season because of continued problems with an energy-sapping virus. The blood disorder weakened her since April although she won the singles gold medal at the Olympics.
The company that revolutionized the search of the Internet has now revolutionized searching your hard drive. Google #39;s (Nasdaq: GOOG) new Desktop Search utility is an incredibly
Oracle has revealed the identities of the four people it will nominate to the board of PeopleSoft as it pushes ahead with its efforts to take control of the company.
Amid an unprecedented shortage of flu vaccine, pharmacists at several Massachusetts hospitals say that suppliers have offered to sell them shots in recent days for as much as $90 a dose, more than 10 times the normal price.
HBOS questioned yesterday the impartiality of the European Union #39;s competition commissioner, Mario Monti, after he made comments that appeared to be favourable to a bid for Abbey National by the Spanish bank Santander Central Hispano.
Wireless communications service provider Nextel Communications Inc. on Friday posted 69 percent growth in third-quarter earnings based on demand across its business sectors, and raised its outlook for 2004.
Scotland #39;s NFL Europe franchise has folded due to falling attendance, leaving the league with only one team outside of Germany.
Captain Patrick Vieira predicted a terrific future at Arsenal as the club moved within touching distance of setting a new unbeaten league record.
General Motors and Ford are cutting production in their domestic market over the coming months as car sales begin to slow amid wilting consumer confidence.
Jerry Rice was scheduled to meet with Oakland Raiders owner Al Davis on last night to discuss the receiver's future after he said he wants to be traded.
Australia faltered in the last 30 minutes of the first session of the third Test against India at Nagpur and the hosts took full advantage to emerge with their necks out in front.
Padraig Harrington took advantage of a huge mistake by Graeme McDowell to move into a share of the lead with nine holes to play at the Linde German Masters in Cologne today.
QB overcomes his own turnovers and New England wins its 20th game in a row. FOXBORO, Mass. -- Tom Brady lost a fumble and his helmet -- but not the streak.
A phantom penalty, followed by a 9-yard touchdown catch by Eddie Kennison, lifted the Kansas City Chiefs past the undermanned Tennessee Titans, 49-38.
The BCS tried to spread joy and big bucks around the country Sunday and had its typical result. USC and Oklahoma came out the big winners and will play for the national champion in the Orange Bowl.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar dipped against most major currencies on Wednesday after mixed data on U.S. durable goods orders and weaker-than-expected new home sales did little to brighten the U.S. economic outlook.
The referendum on Aug. 15, 2004 rejected the petition to revoke the mandate of President Hugo Chavez. The observation of The Carter Center mission confirms the results announced by the National Election Council
a 2-1 defeat to Benfica in the 2004 Portuguese Cup Final. That aside, his Porto team won everything they entered: two
Australia's largest steelmaker BlueScope is to build three manufacturing plants in India, as part of an ongoing expansion across Asia.
Tony Kanaan can clinch the IRL IndyCar championship this weekend with a fourth-place finish or better in the Toyota Indy 400 at California Speedway.
Colts.com. Synopsis: The Colts, in their first game of the season, will play the team they faced in their last game last season: the New England Patriots.
Brendon McCullum produced an outstanding 143 as New Zealand moved into a commanding position on day three of the first Test against Bangladesh in Dhaka.
Broncos tailback Tatum Bell was shooting to return to practice by Thursday after separating his shoulder during a breakout performance against the Dolphins last week.
quot;I #39;m going to a club with a lot of history and a great present, quot; Alonso told a press conference here in the presence of Real Sociedad president Jose Luis Astiarzan.
Mobile phone giant MMO2 teams up with Japan's NTT DoCoMo to launch i-mode internet services in the UK, Germany and Ireland.
AP - All-Star shortstop Edgar Renteria has agreed in principle to a #36;40 million, four-year contract with the Boston Red Sox, who beat his St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series when he grounded to the pitcher for the final out.
Riggs has replaced Joseph M. Cahill as part the ongoing fallout from a recent internal investigation into failures to abide by federal laws designed to prevent money laundering.
LOS ANGELES - Howard Stern #39;s move to Sirius Satellite Radio will unlock the one key regulatory advantage possessed by the satellite radio industry: Stern can finally say exactly what he wants on the air.
Google warned Thursday that increased competition and the maturing of the company would result in an quot;inevitable quot; slowing of its growth.
AP - Priest Holmes had already scored four touchdowns before an ankle sprain knocked him out of the game. Steve McNair and Randy Moss barely worked up a sweat Sunday before injuries sent them to the sidelines.
You did it again, didn't you? You fell into the trap that these fun-loving, baseball-bashing Red Sox set for you. You became so enamored with their irreverence and their pizazz and their long hair and their long-ball capabilities, you actually convinced yourself they were better than the New York Yankees.
THEY do not approach their subjects wearing lab coats to indicate a) they work behind the Clinique counter at Saks, or b) they test for drug cheats at the Olympics.
This is a rotten time for moral victories. Like it or not, the New York Giants received one Sunday. While their playoff hopes took another hit when their rally
Mumbai: India clawed back after a miserable batting display to restrict Australia #39;s first innings lead to 99 runs and keep themselves afloat in the fourth and final cricket Test here on Thursday.
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Home improvement retailer Lowe's Cos. Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=LOW.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;LOW.N&lt;/A&gt; on Monday reported a 15 percent rise in third-quarter profit, aided by its expansion to New York and other big U.S. markets, but its stock fell on a disappointing outlook and concern about profit margins.
Arsenal beat Blackburn 3-0 for its 43rd consecutive English Premiership match without a loss, breaking a record for England #39;s top soccer league set in 1978 by Nottingham Forest, which went without a loss from November 1977 to December the following year.
Johan Santana has 200 strikeouts, the most for a Twins pitcher since Bert Blyleven #39;s 215 in 1986. Mike Jackson of the White Sox made his 1,002d appearance, tying Goose Gossage for eighth on the career list.
US manufacturing grew more slowly in August, a research group reported yesterday, adding to other signs that the economic expansion continued to lose steam in recent weeks.
San Francisco Giants outfielder Barry Bonds, who became the third player in Major League Baseball history to hit 700 career home runs, won the National League Most Valuable Player Award
NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- Bank of America Monday upgraded Wal-Mart, citing valuation and its belief that higher energy costs have no negative surprise factor for the retailing behemoth.
The Conservatives today unveiled an eight-point plan to quot;restore our saving culture quot; ahead of the publication tomorrow of the government #39;s long-awaited Turner report on pensions.
He won the season-ending Champ-car Mexican Grand Prix, leading wire-to-wire to take his seventh victory of the 14-race season. Pole-sitter Bourdais began the race with a 22-point lead over front-row neighbour Bruno Junqueira.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Shares of Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt; fell 6.67 percent on Tuesday, as selling restrictions were lifted on 39 million shares held by employees and early investors in the newly public Web search company.
BERLIN: Bayern Munich claimed the honorific title of winter champions showing great spirit to come from two goals down to net a point in a 2-2 draw with VfB Stuttgart at the Olympic Stadium on Saturday.
Reuters - Treasuries prices turned lower on Tuesday in a classic buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact reaction as a reading on U.S. consumption proved not as weak as some had been betting.
ATHENS -- Yudel Johnson lost the gold medal to a shadow last night. The Cuban light welterweight was slickly outpointed by Thailand's Manus Boonjumnong at Peristeri Boxing Hall, 17-11, but what really beat him was Cuba's exporting of its coaches to a host of other countries.
A curious incident occurred on Thursday which had Roberto Mancini and a Milan fan involved. Apparently a quarrel between the Inter coach and a rossonero fan nearly degenerated into a fight.
ELEANOR HALL: Australia #39;s most famous punter is making a push into the fast growing and lucrative Asian gaming industry. Kerry Packer #39;s media and casino company PBL has signed a joint venture deal with a leading
ARSENAL #39;S Fredrik Ljungberg belives Sunday #39;s clash at Manchester United will be great fun for the high-flying Gunners. Arsenal can not only reach a half-century in unbeaten league games if they avoid defeat
Smoking foes, led by Ohio Republican Sen. Mike DeWine, yesterday vowed to continue their fight for government regulation of tobacco products, shortly
SYRACUSE, NY -- Hakim Warrick scored 20 points and Syracuse held Princeton to five free throws over the final 8:41 in a 56-45 victory Friday night in the second round of the Coaches vs.
WASHINGTON (CBS.MW) -- To understand why phone industry executives are so excited about their plans to offer TV service, it helps to know about the technology that will make it possible.
The season started with a four-game homestand and mixed results for the Illinois football team. Phase II begins today for the Illini, who head into a rugged October schedule with a Big Ten Conference game at No.
NEW YORK Oct. 4, 2004 - American International Group Inc., one of the world #39;s largest insurance firms, said Monday that the Securities and Exchange Commission may bring a civil action against the company
WASHINGTON - The nation will face quot;abrupt and painful quot; consequences unless the government moves quickly to fix the finances of Social Security and Medicare, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Friday.
New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer sued insurance giants Marsh amp; McLennan, American International Group and several others Thursday, alleging policy brokers have been taking payoffs from insurance companies to steer corporate clients their way rather
Novar, the UK building supplies group, is today expected to announce that it has agreed to be acquired by the US industrial giant Honeywell in a cash deal worth more than 800m.
Richard Branson #39;s mobile phone group, which was listed in July, said first-half margins would be well ahead of last year and it expected capital expenditure, as a percentage of revenue, to be below 4pc in the first half and at a similar level for the full
Weary of fielding questions about his role in the postseason, Pedro Martinez asked the Red Sox before Tuesday #39;s game against the Devil Rays to reveal their plans.
PARIS -- Marat Safin hit 10 aces and beat Lleyton Hewitt 6-4, 7-6 (2) Friday in a showdown between US Open champions to reach the Paris Masters semifinals.
Provo, UT (Sports Network) - Brigham Young University has scheduled a news conference for Wednesday afternoon at which time head football coach Gary Crowton will be fired.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Disgraced Greek sprinters Costas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou were charged Thursday with missing drugs tests on the eve of August's Athens Olympics and faking a motorcycle accident.
Shropshire #39;s Scott Drummond believes he will learn from the experience of going head-to-head with world number two Ernie Els, despite seeing his HSBC World Matchplay dreams end this morning.
A test of his sore right ankle finds him ready to go, if Red Sox can win Game 5 today. BOSTON - Boston ace Curt Schilling was cleared to pitch a possible Game 6 of the AL Championship Series against the Yankees
Mark Hughes and Ryan Giggs are two of Old Trafford #39;s all-time greats. On Saturday, more than 60,000 fans at Manchester United #39;s famous ground will be willing them to lose.
LONDON, United Kingdom -- Red-hot world oil prices simmered just above 50 dollars on Wednesday after a pledge by Saudi Arabia to lift output brought only fleeting respite to a market gripped by supply fears, analysts said.
NEW YORK - Uneasy investors sold stocks mostly lower Tuesday as oil prices climbed above $51 per barrel, creating new worries that rising energy costs would curb consumer spending and corporate profits.
Lisbon, Portugal (Sports Network) - CD Nacional suspended three players who were arrested following an altercation at a Portuguese nightclub early Monday morning.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Though Barry Bonds will treasure his 700th homer, he probably wanted the San Francisco Giants #39; 4-1 victory over San Diego even more.
December 5, 2004 -- THE meetings this week in Toronto be tween the NHL and the NHLPA will mark the beginning of the end, either the beginning of the end of the lockout or the beginning of the end of the NHL in any recognizable form.
It #39;s not often that the Cincinnati Bengals get to flash their skills in front of a national audience. In fact, it had been 12 years since Cincinnati had appeared
Like two teams before a big game, supporters and detractors of a plan to bring baseball to the District are preparing their lineups for tomorrow #39;s showdown before the DC Council.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - U.S. crude oil futures hit a new record on Tuesday at $50.01 a barrel as worries about the stability of supplies from Iraq, Nigeria and Russia compounded concerns over low fuel stocks ahead of peak winter demand.
Anna Smashnova-Pistolesi and Harel Levy each recorded upset wins and the star of the next generation of Israeli tennis stars, Shahar Pe er, qualified for her second WTA Tour event in as many weeks on an action-packed Monday.
Ismael Valdez pitched six solid innings, Jeff Conine drove in all three runs and the Florida Marlins averted a series sweep by beating the Atlanta Braves 3-0 on Sunday.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices tumbled to an 11-week low below $45 a barrel on Thursday, deepening a dramatic slide after an increase in U.S. heating oil stocks eased worries of a winter supply squeeze.
Jason Ricks kicked a 28-yard field goal with 55 seconds left and No. 22 Oklahoma State rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat Missouri 20-17 on Saturday.
Level 3 Communications (Quote, Chart) said it will pay $34 million cash for Sprint #39;s (Quote, Chart) wholesale dial-up Internet access business.
Mark L. Attanasio is 46 years old. He was born in the Bronx, NY, lives in Los Angeles and made a fortune in investment banking. And he is about to buy a baseball team.
AP - The Atlanta Falcons tried Wednesday to stifle speculation about Rod Coleman's mysterious car wreck.
Former Washington football coach Rick Neuheisel looked forward to a return to coaching Wednesday after being cleared by the NCAA of wrongdoing related to his gambling on basketball games.
Memphis Grizzlies coach Hubie Brown talks to a reporter after a workout Jan. 8, 2004, in Seattle. Brown retired as coach of the Grizzlies on Thursday, Nov. 25, 2004, due to health reasons.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - World oil prices eased on Friday, with shortened trading hours in New York and London, as traders squared positions ahead of a long U.S. weekend.
China will strengthen ties with foreign partners to revitalize the economy in Northeast China and to further co-operation in Northeast Asia, a senior official said.
As Florida State quarterback Chris Rix returns to health, Coach Bobby Bowden will again start sophomore Wyatt Sexton in Saturday night's game against sixth-ranked Virginia.
SPA-FRANCORCHAMPS, Belgium - Michael Schumacher is back at his favorite race, looking to claim a title demoralized opponents conceded to him months ago: an unprecedented seventh Formula One drivers championship.
The 24-year-old sustained the injury after a challenge by Papa Bouba Diop in their 2-0 win over Fulham on Saturday. A Villa spokesman said: quot;Vassell has a fracture of his ankle.
AP - Browns offensive guard Kelvin Garmon and defensive back Leigh Bodden are out for the season after sustaining injuries in Cleveland's loss on Sunday in Baltimore.
Reuters - A proposed settlement between Coca-Cola Co. and the European Commission to end a long-running antitrust case over fizzy drinks is not yet set in stone, the European Union's executive said on Monday.
His bullpen had already squeezed out 8 2/3 shutout innings and Dan Miceli was still available, making it logical for Houston Astros manager Phil Garner to take a chance
LONDON Royal Dutch/Shell Group said Thursday that it was merging the two publicly traded entities that make up the company and unifying their boards, ending a nearly 100-year-old corporate structure.
West Indies captain Brian Lara, who had to retire hurt in the semifinal against Pakistan on Wednesday, has not suffered a serious injury.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) - Snubbed by its pilots, US Airways Group is scrambling to find cost savings among other union workers to avoid tumbling back into bankruptcy, an event industry analysts warn could come as early as this weekend.
BOMBAY: Indian cricket #39;s record sale of television rights for $308-million was put on hold yesterday after a court proposed a re-bid following objections from the sports network which missed out, a report said.
The co-founder of the athletic shoe and clothing company is stepping down as president and CEO, with his resignation taking effect Dec. 28.
The Spanish Football Federation led the way, sending a letter of apology to the Football Association. General secretary Jorge P Arias condemned the fans #39; behaviour and reiterated his federation #39;s position against racism in football.
More than 1,000 opposition activists protest in Sri Lanka's capital, Colombo, about the rising cost of living.
Oracle proclaimed a symbolic victory Saturday after 61 percent of PeopleSoft stockholders accepted its $9.2 billion takeover offer.
FONTANA, United States : Brazil #39;s Tony Kanaan can clinch the Indy Racing League season championship by finishing in the top four at the Toyota Indy 400 here Sunday.
AP - Corey Koskie homered and hit a go-ahead two-run single in the eighth inning, lifting the Minnesota Twins over the Cleveland Indians 4-3 Friday night.
On one point, both sides agree: The sexual encounter in Kobe Bryant #39;s hotel suite was over in a matter of minutes. But that episode on a summer night in the Colorado mountains
FARMINGTON, Pa. -- Just when Vijay Singh thinks he can #39;t play better, he does. Just when it seems he can #39;t do much more during his Tiger Woods-like season, he does that, too.
CHICAGO (CBS.MW) -- Circuit City Stores shares plummeted 10 percent Monday after the nation #39;s No. 2 electronics retailer said that its third-quarter same-store sales fell 4.3 percent.
ROME : All Blacks legend Jonah Lomu said he was hoping to make a return to competitive rugby in 12 months #39; time and then help New Zealand win the 2007 World Cup in France.
US chip-related stocks, including Intel Corp., declined after Advanced Micro Devices Inc. said third- quarter sales fell from the preceding period.
Securities regulators are suing the management team behind the rapid rise and fall of online credit lender NextCard Inc., alleging the company #39;s top executives cooked the books and then scrambled to sell their stock before the ruse unraveled into
French telecommunications equipment vendor Alcatel on Friday snapped up two US technology firms in acquisitions that will add wireless switching and IP conferencing technology to its portfolio.
ST. LOUIS -- The Dodgers absolutely love the team persona that they nurtured throughout the long regular season, the never-say-die, don #39;t-count-us-out, play- #39;til-the-end Comeback King thing.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Todd Eberhard, a former New York stockbroker and financial television personality, pleaded guilty on Tuesday to cheating his clients out of millions of dollars while generating excessive commissions for himself.
Liverpool will play Watford, the only non-Premier League side in the competition, in its semifinal after the Championship side eliminated Portsmouth 3-0 on Tuesday.
NEW YORK -- Oil prices plummeted below $44 a barrel yesterday, sinking for the fourth consecutive day, as supply fears receded, gasoline futures plunged and profit- taking took over.
Federal regulators lacked the authority to block payment of more than $50 million in compensation to former Freddie Mac chief executive Leland C. Brendsel while awaiting the outcome of actions they have brought against him, a federal judge here has ruled.
Crude oil futures rose in New York, after falling from a record on Friday, as fighting in Iraq #39;s holy city of Najaf damped expectations the country would restore oil exports to full capacity.
To celebrate its 25th anniversary, ESPN announced yesterday it will be sending yet another all-sports channel your way (its seventh, if you're counting), this one dedicated to college sports.
Mike Alstott will be sidelined at least a month after spraining his right knee during Tampa Bay's 19-7 victory over the Chicago Bears.
WASHINGTON (CBS.MW) - An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration late Friday declined to endorse AstraZeneca #39;s anti-stroke drug, Exanta.
The Transportation Security Administration said yesterday that it expanded a program to conduct security checks that could affect more than 100,000 foreign students seeking flight training in the United States and U.S. certified pilots who are noncitizens.
Carson Palmer kept throwing and throwing, and by the time he was finished with Notre Dame two years ago, Southern California had a one-sided victory and the quarterback had locked up the Heisman Trophy.
Oil prices were hovering close to last weeks record high today after breaking through the 50 US dollars mark again. Production problems in the Gulf of Mexico due to
US Treasury Secretary John W. Snow began a European tour yesterday, aiming to highlight the need for stronger economic growth in Europe as Washington tries to blunt criticism over massive
BEIJING China on Wednesday opened its ancient capital of Xi #39;an and an industrial city in the northeast to overseas banks, a year earlier than planned, as it eases restrictions on their expansion.
A baserunning gaffe turns Pedro Martinez into Pedro the magnificent, and now it's simply a matter of when the Red Sox end their eons of pain.
The Boeing Co. #39;s major rival, Airbus, announced Wednesday it has received an order from Cebu Air Inc., the Philippines #39; second-largest airline, for 12 new A319 jets.
AP - Kelly Holcomb threw for 400 yards and five touchdowns #151; and lost. Cincinnati and Cleveland played the most remarkable game in their intrastate rivalry Sunday, a wacky 58-48 Bengals victory that turned into the second-highest scoring game in NFL history.
MANAGUA (Reuters) - Nicaraguan former world champion boxer Ricardo Mayorga was arrested then freed despite pending charges on Friday after a young woman accused him of raping her in a Managua hotel.
Coca-Cola Co. (KO.N: Quote, Profile, Research) on Thursday reported a 24 percent drop in third-quarter net income due to weak sales of its soft drinks, juices and bottled
High noon in Texas: the agriculture chief is making a stand against junk food. Can she win?
Top world oil exporter Saudi Arabia vowed on Sunday to maintain a cushion of spare supplies of up to 2 million barrels per day (bpd) to meet future demand growth.
Trade officials from the United States and the European Union haggled over subsidies for aircraft companies on Thursday in Brussels, but came to no agreement on the issue.
Everton Football Club have rejected an offer of 20million from Newcastle United Football Club for Wayne Rooney - although they may return with an improved offer.
Computer Associates International Inc. (CA) plans to cut 800 positions worldwide, 5 percent of its workforce, in hopes of shaving US $70 million annually off its operating costs.
Adobe Systems Inc. on Monday reported a sharp rise in quarterly profit, driven by robust demand for its Photoshop and document-sharing software.
Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. said Tuesday that Sirius radio will be available as a factory-installed option in the 2006 BMW 3 Series beginning next summer.
Presidentialaffair, blessed with blazing speed and cursed by abscessed hooves, finally settles down for saddling then blows away the field with a gate-to-wire victory in the Maryland Million Classic.
Oracle has put up its quot;best and final quot; offer for PeopleSoft at US $24 per share. The new price is up $3 from Oracle #39;s last offer, and is in excess of PeopleSoft #39;s 52-week closing price high.
FRUSTRATED Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson has left his misfiring strikeforce in no doubt there are no excuses for their current pitiful form.
Qantas Airways Ltd. should not seek another airline to replace British Airways Plc if the UK carrier sells its stake in the business, Qantas Chief Executive Geoff Dixon said.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - FedEx Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=FDX.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;FDX.N&lt;/A&gt;, the world's top air-express shipper, on Thursday said quarterly profit more than tripled on strength in its international, ground and freight businesses, and the company raised its full-year earnings forecast.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Tuesday as shares of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=WMT.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;WMT.N&lt;/A&gt; extended their losses, oil prices held near $50 a barrel and the dollar hit a record low against the euro.
TORONTO (CP) - Zach Randolph scored 34 points and snared 17 rebounds to lead the Portland Trail Blazers to an 88-85 pre-season victory over the Toronto Raptors on Thursday night.
A Washington-based research company will move part of its operations to a new facility being planned in Rosslyn, creating 2,500 new jobs, Gov.
Orbitz Inc., the Internet travel agency that is being bought by Cendant Corp., Wednesday posted a 30 percent jump in third-quarter profit, aided by a surge in hotel business.
THE FA last night launched an inquiry over Chelsea keeper Petr Cech #39;s alleged criticism of referee Graham Poll for allowing Thierry Henry #39;s free-kick in Sunday #39;s 2-2 draw at Highbury.
ST. AUGUSTINE - The humbling, career-defining moment Charlie Sifford never truly believed could ever be his had arrived. Doors were being held open.
NEW YORK - Sprint Corp. said on Tuesday it would spend $US3 billion ( $NZ4.2 billion) over the next three years to upgrade its mobile network including the development of high-speed Internet services.
US Airways faces a serious risk of going out of business, according to some leading airline analysts, despite claims by the CEO of the nation #39;s No.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Shares of US Airways Group Inc. slipped as much as 23 percent in early trading on Tuesday after its pilots union rejected the company's latest contract proposal, a blow to its attempt to avoid a second trip through bankruptcy.
AP - Marshall linebacker Dionte Wilson has been suspended for the Fort Worth Bowl for an unspecified violation of team rules.
AP - All-Star third baseman Troy Glaus agreed Thursday to a four-year contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks, who hope the 2002 World Series MVP will rebound from a season cut short by an injured shoulder.
The Kansas City Chiefs were 2 yards away from taking a double-digit lead against Houston, hoping to avoid their first 0-3 start in 24 years.
BEIJING, Oct. 18. - Two runners - college student and a senior citizen -d and eleven others were admitted to hospitals during the Beijing International Marathon, state media reported today.
LONDON, England -- The English Football Association have charged Tottenham captain Jamie Redknapp with serious foul play. The Spurs captain was guilty of a late challenge on Tim Cahill that resulted in the
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Web search leader Google Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GOOG.O target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GOOG.O&lt;/A&gt;, in its first earnings report as a publicly held company, on Thursday posted a profit of $52.0 million in the third quarter on strong Web search advertising.
Peter Lonard was almost an afterthought last week at The Australian - until the last nine when his pressure-proof action flushed enough irons close enough to steal the championship from those who had borne the brunt of the leaders #39; tension for three and a
Closeout retailer Tuesday Morning Corp. (Nasdaq:TUES) on Monday cuts its fourth-quarter earnings per share to 83 cents, well below the $1.05 a share estimate of analysts polled by Thomson First Call.
The new tax act adds some complications to contribution requirements.
Paris St Germain coach Vahid Halilhodzic says he felt so betrayed by the last-minute transfer of striker Fabrice Fiorese to Olympique Marseille that he was physically sick after going home on Tuesday.
Harrah #39;s Entertainment and Caesars Entertainment Inc. have agreed to sell four hotel-casinos to an affiliate of Colony Capital LLC for about 1.2 billion dollars.
THE South Africans have called the Wallabies scrum cheats as a fresh round of verbal warfare opened in the Republic last night.
Reuters - Deere Co. (DE.N), one of the world's largest farm equipment makers, on Tuesday said quarterly earnings jumped sharply, driven in part by strength in its agricultural and construction equipment businesses.
WASHINGTON -- A new $50 bill with touches of red, blue and yellow will show up soon in banks, cash registers and wallets. A new $10 also is in the works, the third greenback to get colorized in an effort to thwart counterfeiting.
Senior Kris Olsen, like many other students, has already made plans to travel home to New York for Thanksgiving break. But he wonders if his flight will even get off the ground because he #39;s flying with ATA.
Reuters - U.S. consumer spending rose a sharper-than-expected 0.7 percent in October, but rising food and energy prices ate up much of that gain, a government report showed on Wednesday.
Buyout firm Forstmann Little amp; Co. Thursday said it would buy International Management Group, a leading talent agency that represents major sports and entertainment stars.
A year ago baseball was toying with the ill-conceived idea of expanding the playoffs by adding two wild-card teams - one from each league.
Reuters - Richard Hamilton posted 21 points to propel the Detroit Pistons to an 81-69 triumph over the Cleveland Cavaliers at Auburn Hills, Michigan Thursday.
ATHENS (CP) - Perdita Felicien of Pickering, Ont., and Angela Whyte of Edmonton each advanced to the 100-metre hurdles final. Felicien, one of Canada #39;s best hopes for a medal in Athens, won her heat in a time of 12.
The San Diego reliever gave up a pair of runs in the bottom of the ninth inning Friday and the Japanese all-stars rallied for a 3-2 walkoff win over the touring major leaguers in Game 7 of an eight-game exhibition series.
Reuters - Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. on Friday reported a lower third-quarter profit as revenue fell amid intense competition for its products from rivals and generic drugs.
Managers: Terry Francona is in his first year with the Red Sox and is 3-0 in the postseason. Joe Torre is 887-567 (.610) in nine seasons with the Yankees, 68-31 (.687) in the postseason.
Credit Suisse will on Monday announce a wide restructuring that will integrate its volatile Credit Suisse First Boston investment banking operation much more closely into the parent
Bangalore, Nov 15 (UNI) Indian IT majors Infosys Technologies and Wipro Ltd today announced separate agreements with Microsoft Corp, the world #39;s largest software maker, to deliver applications and solutions to their global customers based on Microsoft
AP - Jamaal Tinsley scored 29 points and James Jones had a career-best 22 points and 10 rebounds to lead the suspension-weakened Indiana Pacers to a 106-96 win over the Boston Celtics on Tuesday.
Internal defibrillator maker's earnings growth rate is slowing down, but its future looks healthy.
As Florida was cleaning up yesterday from its fourth hurricane in six weeks, insurance executives and analysts said they expected the cost of coverage to rise sharply for millions of homes and businesses in the state.
HENRIK LARSSON last night admitted Barcelona ran out luck after being robbed in the San Siro. The Swede and Iniesta both hit the bar as Frank Riijkard #39;s men were frustrated by AC Milan on Wednesday.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS.MW) -- Alcoa Inc. and Australia #39;s BHP Billiton have agreed to sell Integris Metals to Ryerson Tull for $410 million in cash, plus assumption of $250 million in debt, the companies said late Tuesday.
It may be beginning to look a lot like Christmas, but Rich Forney is worried it sure won #39;t sound like it. Forney, administrator of the Salvation Army #39;s Lawrence operations, said the nonprofit #39;s annual bell
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. chain store sales were up, posting a gain in the latest week compared with the same time last year, but hurricanes Bonnie and Charley still left a negative impact, a report said on Tuesday.
EAST RUTHERFORD -- It #39;s no secret that Jason Kidd will see his return as a chance to present himself to interested suitors. But the Nets presented another point of view in their 109-88 rout over the Atlanta Hawks last night.
AP - Eric Pegram kicked a 19-yard field goal in overtime and Lee Foliaki recovered a fumble on the next possession, giving No. 17 Texas A amp;M a 29-26 victory over Colorado on Saturday.
Former Irish soccer stars to play with Team USA in Monday #39;s semifinals vs. Germany (Aug. 23, 10:00 am South Bend time on MSNBC); Gonzalez and Mexico fall to Brazil in quarterfinals.
Reuters - Cancel the limo. Put down the dining guides and leave your overcoat in the closet. A power breakfast or lavish business dinner is just an elevator ride away.
Curt Schilling needs surgery on his injured right ankle, but the Red Sox hope he will still be able to pitch Game 5 of the AL championship series Sunday.
FAISALABAD, Pakistan : Sri Lanka extended their lead to 164 runs against Pakistan on the back of an unbeaten half century by Sanath Jayasuriya on the third day of the first Test at Iqbal stadium here.
Michael Phelps, who thrilled packed crowds for a week with his record-breaking feats in the pool, bowed out in true style on the penultimate evening of the Athens Olympic swimming competition.
By now, most of us can agree that ABC #39;s quot;Monday Night Football quot; opening was lasciviously over-the-top, a crass effort at cross-promotion and titillation.
James Cracknell, the double Olympic gold medal winning rower, confirmed today that he will take a year #39;s break the sport before deciding his long-term future.
Bengie Molina went 4 for 4 with a three-run homer, Kelvim Escobar outpitched Kevin Brown, and the Anaheim Angels completed a three-game sweep of the slumping Yankees with a 4-3 victory yesterday in New York.
Stefan Koubek beat French Open champion Gaston Gaudio 6-1, 1-6, 6-3 Thursday to reach the quarterfinals of the Swiss Indoors. Second-seeded Tim Henman struggled to get through to the quarterfinals for the
AP - Wal-Mart has been sued in federal court by a man who claims the world's largest retailer discriminates against blacks in 12 Southern states from seeking truck-driving jobs.
Creating a stir on the day before the 35th Ryder Cup, Hal Sutton paired Tiger Woods with Phil Mickelson for Friday's opening four-ball match.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Steve McNair returned to the lineup for the first time in a month, throwing a touchdown pass and directing two other scoring drives in the Titans 18-15 upset in Jacksonville.
SAN DIEGO -- Rookie left-handed pitcher Jeff Francis of Vancouver stymied the San Diego Padres yesterday and led the Colorado Rockies to a 5-2 win.
Oct. 11 issue - IBM retirees will get their cash, but what #39;s it to you? It #39;s too soon to tell. Last week IBM agreed to pay $300 million to settle old pension claims, and agreed to pay $1.
History says they cant do this. History says the Indianapolis Colts cant win a championship in a league where offense sells tickets and defense wins Super Bowls.
Arsenal Football Club has signed the biggest club sponsorship agreement in football history with Emirates Airline in an agreement worth 100 million.
Bentley coach Peter Yetten knows that increased success breeds increased expectations. Yetten's Falcons are returning to the NCAA Division 2 tournament one year after their first-round loss to eventual repeat national champion Grand Valley State. It being the program's first foray into postseason play, just being there was accomplishment enough.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Athletic shoe and apparel maker Reebok International Ltd. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=RBK.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;RBK.N&lt;/A&gt; on Thursday posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings on an acquisition and the weak dollar, sending its shares up more than 3 percent.
AP - Stanford football coach Buddy Teevens was fired after three straight losing seasons, an athletic department source said Monday on condition of anonymity.
PITTSBURGH Mellon Financial Corporation has agreed to acquire The Providence Group Investment Advisory Company, a private investment firm.
LOS ANGELES (Ticker) -- Top-ranked Southern California tries to win a school-record 21st straight home game and post a 20th consecutive victory overall when it hosts rival Notre Dame on Saturday.
AP - Telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies Inc. may receive an #36;816 million federal income tax refund related to its multibillion dollar losses at the height of the telecom industry slump.
The Chinese Railway Ministry #39;s project with an estimated contract value of 100 billion yen aims to double the speed of trains on five major existing railway lines, stretching over
Component problems meant Brillian's new big screens missed the NFL's kickoff party.
A former crematory operator in Georgia has pleaded guilty to dumping 334 bodies and giving the families cement dust instead of ashes.
Southwest Airlines, the discount carrier that has long stuck to its policy of seating passengers on a first-come, first-served basis, is seriously considering assigning seats, officials said.
Tokyo stocks surged at the open on Monday, fueled by Wall Street #39;s gains last week. The US dollar was higher against the Japanese yen.
Dynogen Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Waltham said it licensed a late-stage drug candidate from Mitsubishi Pharma Corp. Terms weren't disclosed. The compound, pumosetrag, is thought to be helpful to patients suffering from a variety of gastrointestinal conditions, such as irritable bowel syndrome. Dynogen, a privately held firm, said it plans to start new clinical trials with pumosetrag next year. Mitsubishi, part ...
Sony recorded a 61.6 jump in its net profit in the third quarter of this year thanks to the success of its entertainment and movie sectors, the firm said yesterday.
SALT LAKE CITY -- Marty Johnson tied a school record with four rushing touchdowns and No. 14 Utah held off Air Force, 49-35, yesterday, giving the Utes their best start in 10 years.
Northwest Airlines Corp. said Wednesday it is suing Sabre Travel Network for breach of contract in a Minnesota district court. The airline alleges the unit of Sabre Holdings Corp.
Cardinals defensive tackle Kenny King will miss the season after undergoing surgery to repair tendons in his wrist on Wednesday.
Reuters - U.S. consumer sentiment deteriorated in October as rising energy costs and persistent job worries made Americans less optimistic about the future, according to a survey released on Friday.
AP - When Carlos Beltran was traded to the Houston Astros, he already was considered among baseball's top all-around players, one of those rare breeds who can hit, run and play great defense.
CAMP HILL, Pa. Rite Aid says it #39;s lowering its financial projections for the current fiscal year, citing slowing pharmacy sales and lower-than-expected reimbursement rates paid by insurance companies and other health plans.
RUESSELSHEIM - Top Opel management and labour officials began talks Monday on the plans by General Motors to axe 10,000 jobs at the carmaker, while workers at one of the company #39;s main plants in Bochum continued a walkout.
It was a surreal and stomach-turning night for the Yankees against the Minnesota Twins on Thursday, and when it ended, it was also a successful night.
Russian tax authorities slapped oil giant Yukos and its main production unit with two new tax claims for nearly $10 billion, raising the company #39;s total bill to more than $17.
Chelsea said today they will not fear Barcelona after drawing the Spanish league leaders in the last 16 of the Champions League. Jose Mourinho got his wish of landing
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the third- largest US securities firm, said profit rose 30 percent as fixed-income and commodities trading revenue increased by almost $1 billion and fees from mergers advice climbed.
Oklahoma and USC, 12-0 like the Tigers, head to the Orange Bowl title game while Texas vaults Cal for a BCS berth. By wire services.
Crude oil prices have jumped to $50.00 a barrel in after hours trading in New York. The psychologically significant level was reached in electronic trading after the close of the markets Monday.
The New Orleans Saints completed their long-anticipated trade for Green Bay cornerback Mike McKenzie on Monday. The Saints swapped third-string quarterback JT O #39;Sullivan and their second
Sara Lee Corp. reaffirmed its forecast for fiscal full-year profit of $1.61 to $1.71 a share. That includes first-quarter profit of 39 cents to 44 cents a share.
AP - Shay Doron and Crystal Langhorne had 16 points each to lead No. 22 Maryland to a 76-56 victory over Penn in the consolation game of the Coors Classic Saturday night
The optimists among Rutgers fans were delighted, but the Scarlet Knights still gave the pessimists something to worry about.
&lt;em&gt; When Republican Michael G. Fitzpatrick is sworn in as the new congressman from Pennsylvania's 8th District, the longtime Philadelphia sports fan will face some important decisions. Chief among them, of course . . . &lt;/em&gt;
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - BellSouth Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=BLS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;BLS.N&lt;/A&gt; on Monday said third-quarter earnings fell due to hurricane damage in the southeastern U.S.
Major record corporations say that a licensed file-sharing system could bolster their position in their fight against piracy as well as increase digital music sales.
There are no US players left in either singles draw, with Jennifer Capriati and Lindsay Davenport being bundled out in the women #39;s semifinals.
SINGAPORE: Oil prices have spiked up above $51 a barrel as increasing signs of an electoral victory for US President George W Bush raises the prospect of continued high demand in the world #39;s biggest energy consumer.
The state's highest court affirmed an already approved 2.5 percent average increase in auto insurance premiums for this year, but said the insurance commissioner may have to revise her decision in a way that would ease premiums for certain drivers. The Supreme Judicial Court rejected Attorney General Thomas F. Reilly's challenge of a new formula used by Insurance Commissioner Julianne ...
The SPX Corp. Board of Directors accepted the resignation and retirement of Chairman, President and CEO John Blystone. The now Charlotte NC-based SPX -- which for years was the Sealed Power Corp.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were poised for a bounce at the open on Tuesday as investors hunt bargains a day after surging oil prices sent the major U.S. stock indexes to their lowest levels in weeks.
Ten Virginia high school cross country runners disqualified for wearing Lance Armstrong #39;s LIVESTRONG wristbands during a meet last week have had their results reinstated.
NEW YORK (Sports Network) - Carl Krauser scored 17 points, grabbed seven rebounds and handed out four assists to lead No. 11 Pittsburgh over Memphis, 70-51, in the Jimmy V Classic from New York's famed Madison Square Garden.
MADRID (Spain): Hard-serving Ivan Ljubicic upset top-seeded but error prone Tim Henman of Britain 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 on Thursday in the 2.
TEMPE, Ariz. (Sports Network) - The Arizona Cardinals placed running back Marcel Shipp and fullback James Hodgins on injured reserve Wednesday night, effectively ending their seasons.
A European judge must sort through competing ideas on the balance between intellectual property and fairness to decide whether antitrust penalties against Microsoft (Quote, Chart) should be suspended.
PITTSBURGH Mylan Laboratories again reiterated its commitment to the estimated four (B) billion dollar acquisition of brand-name drug maker King Pharmaceuticals despite Wall Street financier Carl Icahn upping his stake in the company.
AP - Right now, things are going Jeff Gordon's way #151; and that should enhance his chances of winning a fifth NASCAR championship. Thanks to a rainout of qualifying Friday at New Hampshire International Speedway, points leader Gordon will start from the pole in the first event of the new 10-race playoff for the Nextel Cup championship.
AP - The torch relay for the 2006 Turin Olympics will pass by the Leaning Tower of Pisa and go up Venice's Grand Canal in a route that will cover every province in Italy.
SEOUL, Nov 19, 2004 (Kyodo via COMTEX) -- A World Trade Organization panel has ruled in favor of South Korea #39;s Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
MUMBAI, AUG 23: Shares of steel firms fell in the range of 4 to 7 per cent early on Monday after top producers slashed prices amid government concerns about spiralling inflation, traders said.
What is it about Red Sox players hitting the foul pole late at night to win World Series games?
The Food and Drug Administration told Merck amp; Co. that it would approve the company #39;s successor drug to the now defunct pain reliever Vioxx if it provides further safety and
Xerox Corp. on Thursday said third-quarter profit rose as it cut costs and sales of its copiers and printers improved. The Stamford, Connecticut-based company said net income available
Raymond Hines rushed for 193 yards and a one-yard touchdown as James Madison defeated Lehigh, 14-13, in the first round of the Division I-AA playoffs in Bethlehem, Pa., yesterday.
IF the latest takeover drama were a movie, it would probably be a straight-to-video tragicomedy. Last week, Blockbuster, the video rental chain, precipitated collective head-scratching
A ruling that Visa and Mastercard had violated anti-trust law has been upheld by the US Supreme Court. The case stemmed from a 1998 Justice Department lawsuit challenging the credit card issuers #39; regulations.
GREENSBORO, North Carolina (Reuters) - Brent Geiberger followed his father Al in winning the $4.8 million Greensboro Classic Sunday, the first time ever that father and son have won the same PGA Tour event.
FEAR of public blame is making company boards more cautious and it could cost them profits, veteran business figure John Ralph warned today.
Costa Rica overcame an early goal down to beat Canada 3-1 in Vancouver on Wednesday, ending the hometeam #39;s hopes of advancing to the next round of World Cup qualification.
American swimmers continued their dominance in the world short course championships in Indianapolis on Friday, winning five of the eight gold medals on offer without the help of injured Michael Phelps.
Europe and the United States kept up a war of words over the sliding US dollar at a G20 meeting of rich and developing nations, blaming each other for the currency #39;s fall and avoiding new steps or rhetoric to halt it.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Clothing retailer Gap Inc. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=GPS.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;GPS.N&lt;/A&gt; said on Thursday its quarterly earnings ticked up 1 percent, buoyed by improved profit margins, but hemmed in by weakness at its Old Navy and international Gap stores.
AP - Shay Doron scored 21 points to lead No. 24 Maryland past Siena 73-52 on Sunday.
Michael Phelps has proven he is the best swimmer ever -- in and out of the pool. Yesterday, the 6-ft. 5-in. 19-year-old from Baltimore won his sixth gold medal to add to his two bronze, making him the swimmer
Nyon, Switzerland (Sports Network) - The draw for the Champions League round of 16 was unveiled Friday in Switzerland, and there are a number of titanic clashes.
Prudential is to tap investors for one billion pounds through a share issue, saying it needs the cash to fund its UK growth plans.
LONDON (Reuters) - Cazenove is getting serious in its courtship with at least two U.S. investment banks and the 180-year old UK brokerage could tie the knot with one of its suitors in a matter of weeks, sources close to the situation said Monday.
Dissident former directors Roy Disney and Stanley Gold on Tuesday called a temporary cease-fire in their war with CEO Michael Eisner and the Walt Disney Co.
While criminal trials await other former Enron Corp. executives, the Houston-based company #39;s former director of investor relations has agreed to pay $1.
Germany #39;s Tommy Haas continued his resurgence with a 7-6 6-1 7-5 victory over Czech teenager Tomas Berdych on Tuesday to reach the quarter-finals of the US Open for the first time.
The price for settling state charges of collusion and bid-rigging by America #39;s largest insurance broker could be quot;far higher quot; than $500 million, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer said Thursday.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices stayed close to $49 a barrel on Thursday, supported by a forecast for an early cold snap in the United States that could put a strain on a thin supply cushion of winter heating fuel.
London has unveiled its detailed plans to stage the 2012 Olympics, promising a Games of excellence without extravagance. Bid chief Sebastian Coe said on Friday the city would
Robert Polet, chief executive of the Gucci Group, named company veteran Mark Lee to the post of president and managing director of the Gucci division, moving quickly to
Officials at 3Com said today they have signed an agreement to acquire TippingPoint Technologies, a maker of intrusion-prevention systems.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Michael Phelps got his eighth medal at the Athens Olympics Saturday without even getting wet when the United States broke the world record in the men's 4x100 meters medley relay.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average closed down 0.17 percent on Tuesday as growing worries over the domestic economic outlook hit banks and insurers, offsetting gains in shipping firms and others with bright earnings prospects.
Twenty-four hours after missing out on its first Rose Bowl since 1959, the Cal football program was given reason for a half-decade of hope.
Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon has criticised the seven-month ban handed out to Adrian Mutu, claiming the FA had shown themselves to be #39;weak over the issue of drugs #39;.
AP - Kris Benson and Al Leiter are likely to be back with the New York Mets next season.
The nation #39;s economy grew at a moderately strong pace in the three months ending Sept. 30, driven by solid gains in consumer spending, the Commerce Department reported Friday.
Since early adolescence, I #39;ve had a dream. OK, two dreams. But I should probably stick to talking about the one that doesn #39;t involve Elle MacPherson.
WASHINGTON -- Sprint and AT amp;T will be paying a total of $1.5 million to settle with federal regulators. The government charges the phone giants failed to inform potential customers of their rights under federal credit law, after they were denied service.
Tony Blair says the completion of Wembley will boost London's hopes of staging the 2012 Olympics.
ATHENS (Reuters) - The swimming judge who disqualified gold medal winner Aaron Peirsol at the Athens Olympics is standing by his claim that the American backstroker broke the rules.
South African PC demand looks set to keep pace with the good worldwide demand, with rand strength, product bundling
Chicago - The Boeing Company on Thursday said it is co-operating with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the agency #39;s general inquiry into pension accounting methods.
Verizon Wireless said it would pay $3 billion in cash for the spectrum licenses owned by NextWave Telecom, a move that should expand coverage for new subscribers.
BRONX, New York (Ticker) -- Kelvim Escobar was the latest Anaheim Angels #39; pitcher to subdue the New York Yankees. Escobar pitched seven strong innings and Bengie Molina tied a career-high with four hits, including
Arsenals Thierry Henry today missed out on the European Footballer of the Year award as Andriy Shevchenko took the honour. AC Milan frontman Shevchenko held off competition from Barcelona pair Deco and
Some large health insurers are feeling vindicated after Merck #39;s decision to withdraw its painkiller Vioxx from the market because long-term use raises the risk of heart attack or stroke.
LONDON - British American Tobacco PLC posted a 60 percent jump in third quarter net profit Tuesday, thanks partly to lower taxation charges.
WOBURN, England (Reuters) - Sweden's Henrik Stenson ended a three-year barren spell with a four-stroke victory in The Heritage on Sunday to take his second European Tour title.
The Dow closed at its highest level in seven months, the Nasdaq in nine months and the S amp;P hit a fresh three-year high. The US stock market has been on an upward path since the re-election of President George W Bush.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - National Semiconductor Corp. &lt;A HREF="http://www.investor.reuters.com/FullQuote.aspx?ticker=NSM.N target=/stocks/quickinfo/fullquote"&gt;NSM.N&lt;/A&gt;, a maker of chips used to manage power consumption in electronics, on Thursday said quarterly profit rose, helped by a one-time gain and a tax benefit, and it forecast a smaller-than-usual sales decline in the current quarter.
NEW YORK - You #39;ve arrived at your travel destination only to find that your luggage has not. Certain actions can make a big difference in how quickly your bag is recovered or in what kind of reimbursement you #39;ll receive if it #39;s lost.
Mexican group Cemex is reportedly set to make a $4bn takeover bid for RMC, the UK firm that is the world's biggest supplier of ready-mixed concrete.
One door opened and another shut Monday. In the hallway separating the two, a place better known as Cardinals purgatory, Josh McCown watched his career flash before his eyes.
Hutchison Whampoa said it will offer 1.155 billion shares or 25 percent of the unit #39;s 4.5 billion shares. The price range of $0.
The belly butterflies will be in full flight this afternoon when the 43-car field takes the green flag at Talladega (Ala.) Superspeedway.
ENGLAND coach Steve McClaren hopes he has not handed Wales the World Cup blueprint to curb the threat of Wayne Rooney. McClaren #39;s Middlesbrough manfully threw up the barricades at Old Trafford yesterday as
Stonehill rolled up 349 yards of total offense in a 23-6 Northeast-10 Conference victory over Assumption yesterday in Easton, snapping a seven-game winless streak dating to last season and winning its first season opener in seven years.
It's difficult to sit here in the heart of Red Sox Nation -- where people are buying every form of BoSox garb and memorabilia (Red Sox dog bones?) to put under the tree -- and feel the rain of the game's steroid scandal soaking your head and shoulders.
ATHENS, Sept. 22. - Two powerlifters from Azerbaijan have tested positive for banned substances in initial doping tests and are banned for life from the Paralympics, officials said today.
In a sign of persistent weakness in the US economy, a widely watched measure of business activity declined in August for the third consecutive month.
MADRID, Oct. 22. - Ivan Ljubicic edged No. 7 seed Joachim Johansson in three tough sets on Friday to reach the semi-finals in the $3 m Madrid Masters.
The Chicago Sun-Times #39; management and unionized reporters planned to return to the bargaining table Wednesday morning on the heels of a vote authorizing a strike and picketing by employees outside a gala thrown by the company.
NEW YORK -- Lawyers for Martha Stewart have told a federal appeals court that she suffered a quot;fundamentally unfair quot; trial at the hands of prosecutors who incorrectly suggested she was accused of insider trading.
Putnam Investments will pay $40 million to settle yet another regulatory probe, while corporate parent Marsh amp; McLennan Cos. yesterday said it would cut 3,000 jobs in the fallout from the price-fixing and bid-rigging scandal enveloping its insurance brokerage unit.
AP - Wayne Gretzky fears the NHL could be shut down for as long as two years if a labor deal is not reached soon.
SEVILLE, Spain (Reuters) - Facing a battalion of sturdy Spanish baseliners and a partisan, vocal crowd, the United States will rely on team spirit as it fights for the Davis Cup this weekend.
Andre Agassi will have to get through top-seeded Roger Federer if he wants to make the semifinals. Venus Williams will have to get through No.
1. Rapper Snoop Dogg attended practice Tuesday with No. 1 USC as a guest wide receiver. The Trojans were delighted by the star #39;s presence, as were a group of pee-wee football players watching practice that day.
A legalistic squabble yesterday delayed World Trade Organisation authorisation for sanctions against US goods, initially worth up to $150ma year, by the European Union and six
You can deduct all or part of the costs of your home PC, depending upon its use. But put on your thinking cap before you tackle this gnarly issue.
So Pedro Martinez slipped off to Tampa for a brief, none-too-secret rendezvous with George Steinbrenner. Was this supposed to make Theo Epstein and the Red Sox brass jealous?
Davidson was due to test with Williams in Spain next week as the team evaluates candidates for a race drive next season, but while BAR were seemingly prepared to offer Davidson to Williams for one year, the Grove-based team are said to have refused.
Lee Westwood recovered from a nightmare start to his third round and reached the turn just one shot off the lead in the Nedbank Golf Challenge.
WASHINGTON - On the eve of a presidential debate on domestic issues with employment a crucial concern, American textile companies and workers have asked President George W. Bush to help save their jobs by limiting Chinese imports, which may surge once a
The UK #39;s economic growth slowed in the third quarter as manufacturing output declined, preliminary data has shown. Gross domestic output (GDP) increased 0.4 in the three months to 18 October, according to
Vivendi Universal increases its stake in Morocco's national telecoms business, days before it is partially floated.
A 40-year-old left fielder for the San Francisco Giants, Barry Bonds won the National League M.V.P. for the seventh time over all.
GEORGETOWN, Del., Nov. 17 -- Lawyers for plaintiffs in a shareholder suit over Michael S. Ovitz's $140 million severance package from the Walt Disney Co. suggested on Wednesday that Disney chief executive Michael D. Eisner may have viewed his former protege as threatening.
Crude oil rose, erasing a 2 percent loss, after Senator John Kerry conceded the US presidential race to George W. Bush. The re-election of Bush means the US is likely to keep adding oil to its Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
MADRID (AFP) - Barcelona stretched their lead over Real Madrid in the Spanish title chase this weekend as African Player of the Year Samuel Eto #39;o scored twice in a 4-0 win against Malaga.
Vijay Singh shot an eight-under-par 63 to take a two-shot lead over Tiger Woods after the second round of the Deutsche Bank Championship.
It was comforting to see Bob Goodenow hasn #39;t changed much in the seven weeks since the National Hockey League began locking out its players.
NEW YORK - US consumer confidence slipped in September as job concerns resulted in a second consecutive monthly decline, the Conference Board said Tuesday.
BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich. -- Phil Mickelson skipped a practice for the second straight day on Thursday, 24 hours before the Ryder Cup gets under way at Oakland Hills.
Verizon Wireless has agreed to drop its opposition to the FCC #39;s decision to realign the 800 MHz spectrum band, including Nextel #39;s receipt of 1.9 GHz spectrum, and Nextel has agreed to relinquish
CROMWELL, Connecticut (Reuters) - Corey Pavin posted his best score in 14 years, firing an eight-under-par 62 to take a commanding three-shot lead after the first round of the inaugural $4.2 million Buick Championship on Thursday.
Samsung Electronics posted a 46 percent gain in earnings, despite a dip in its cell phone and telecom-equipment business. Separately, Sony Ericsson posted a 29 percent year-over-year increase in sales during the third quarter.
