Saudi Arabia will not seek to push OPEC oil prices above the current benchmark of 18 dlrs per barrel unless oil demand grows strongly, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) said. The Cyprus-based weekly newsletter quoted authoritative Saudi sources as saying the Kingdom's oil price policy would not change "unless and until there is a strong revival in the growth of demand for oil." MEES said this contradicted recent hints of new Saudi price hawkishness from U.S. Congressional and oil industry sources. The Saudi sources said their policy was firmly based on the long-term need to restore the competitive position of oil in general and OPEC oil in particular against other energy sources. "Saudi Arabia is certainly committed to cooperating with its OPEC partners to exercise the necessary production restraint to maintain the 18 dlr per barrel reference price level," MEES said. The newsletter said Saudi output in the first three weeks of April averaged slightly above its OPEC quota of 4.133 mln barrels per day (bpd). Output would fall in the last week, causing the month's average to be below quota, MEES said. MEES estimated overall OPEC production for April at around 16.8-16.9 mln bpd -- two mln bpd more than both its figures for March and  estimates for March. It said Iranian production had risen by 500,000 bpd this month to 2.2-2.3 mln bpd, around its quota level. In Iraq, with an OPEC-assigned quota of 1.466 mln bpd, output rose this month to two mln bpd, not including "war relief" supplies from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, the newsletter said. Nigeria, which has had problems selling its full 1.238 mln bpd entitlement, increased its output to 1.2 mln bpd, it added.
Atlantic Richfield's Arco Oil and Gas Co said it increased contract prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective today. Arco said the 50 cts increase brings its posted price for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The price of West Texas Sour was increased to 18.10 dlrs. Light Louisiana Sweet was raised to 19.35 dlrs. The price was last changed on September 30.
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry will ask Japanese computer microchip makers to further slash output in the second quarter in an effort to save its semiconductor pact with the United States, MITI officials said. The United States has accused Japan of reneging on the semiconductor pact by failing to stop the flow of cut-price Japanese chips to Asian markets. Washington has threatened to take retaliatory action after April 1. The pact, agreed last year, calls on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and to increase its imports of American chips to reduce some of its huge trade surplus. MITI, anxious to salvage the bilateral agreement, has been pressing chip makers to limit production in the hope that will boost domestic chip prices and reduce the incentive to export. Last month, the ministry asked Japanese chip makers to reduce first quarter output by 10 pct. To meet that request, they had to slash production by 20 pct over the final six weeks of the first quarter. If that reduced production level were maintained through to the end of June, second quarter output would come in 10 pct below that of the first three months of the year. MITI officials, who declined to be identified, said the ministry has not yet decided on the extent of the second quarter cutback. One said that Japanese chip makers are losing ground in Asia to South Korean and U.S. Competition just as markets there are picking up. MITI has been criticized privately by some Japanese semiconductor makers for what they see as heavy-handed attempts to ensure the success of the Japan/U.S. Chip pact.
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in line with the Paris accord, he added.
The Bank of Zambia has paid out foreign exchange arrears from three auctions conducted last year, a bank spokesman said. "We have now cleared three auctions and are left with only four, worth eight mln dlrs," the spokesman said without specifying the amount paid out. The bank had not paid foreign exchange to private firms since it suspended the weekly auctions on January 28. It has said the auctions were suspended because it planned to introduce a modified system after talks with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. President Kenneth Kaunda announced last month that the auction would be retained for allocating foreign exchange to approved private sector bidders, but would not be used to determine the kwacha's exchange rate. Last week, he said the auction had run into trouble because of a shortage of foreign exchange. The government has fixed the exchange rate at nine kwacha per dollar, effectively revaluing the kwacha by 67.7 pct.
The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures.
Abu Dhabi's offshore Abu al-Bukhoosh oilfield in the Gulf, shut since an aerial attack last November, will reopen when new anti-aircraft defences are ready, and this could be in the next two months, oil industry sources said. They said the Abu Dhabi government and Compagnie Francaise des Petroles (Total) TPN.PA>, whose Total Abu al-Bukhoosh subsidiary owns 51 pct of the field, have agreed on the reopening, but that a date has not been definitely fixed. Unidentified planes hit the field, 100 miles off Abu Dhabi, last November 25. The raid killed eight workers and destroyed the main living quarters and a bridge linking a wellhead to the main production platform. Western diplomats in the region say Iran was responsible but Tehran has blamed its Gulf War enemy Iraq. Abu al-Bukhoosh was producing 57,000 barrels per day (bpd) at the time of the attack, but the sources said it would resume at a maximum of half that level because of reduced staff and the fact only four of five wellheads were now operable. The sources said only 80 personnel can be housed in remaining accomodations, the sources said. Facilities being installed to protect the field include aircraft detection equipment, anti-aircraft missiles, housing for military personnel and helicopter landing pads, the sources said. Abu Dhabi is the largest oil producer in the United Arab Emirates, accounting for about 800,000 bpd of its total 1.15 mln bpd production, the sources said. They also said Iran was working to reopen its Sassan field, part of the same reservoir as Abu al-Bukhoosh and located only a few miles away. Sassan was heavily damaged by an Iraqi air raid only 10 days before Abu al-Bukhoosh was attacked.
The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves directly by arranging three-day System repurchase agreements, economists said. They said the Fed may add the reserves indirectly instead via a large round, two billion dlrs or more, of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged a high 6.35 pct on Friday, opened at 6-7/16 pct and traded between there and 6-1/2 pct.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 341,000 in the week ended March 14 from 340,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,454,000 in the week ended March 7, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,507,000 the previous week.
The former chief currency dealer of Herstatt Bank, which collapsed in 1974 on foreign exchange speculation in West Germany's biggest banking crash, can stand trial for damages, a court ruled. The court overturned a claim by Danny Dattel that a case for damages should not be allowed after such a long interval. Herstatt creditors are seeking 12.5 mln marks from Dattel, whom they accuse of causing losses at the bank of over 500 mln marks by manipulating forward foreign exchange contracts. The crash of the private Herstatt bank with losses of over one billion marks stunned West Germany's business community, and led to a tightening of banking regulations. The losses were even greater than the 480 mln marks announced recently by Volkswagen as a result of fraud in currency transactions. Ivan Herstatt, managing director of the bank when it collapsed, was sentenced to four and a half years in prison in 1984 but appealed. Six other people associated with the bank were jailed in 1983. But Dattel was freed from prosecution after he produced medical evidence of paranoia caused by Nazi persecution during his childhood, which might have led him to take his own life.
Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. The economists said the service sector should grow as the government stimulates domestic demand under its program to transform the economy away from exports. Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower than those of other industrialised nations, methods for calculating statistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned. "The three pct figure could translate into a relatively high figure if European methods were used," one economist said. More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from a year earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo's Tsukihara said.
The European Community Commission today appointed its chief spokesman, Hugo Paemen, as its top official in charge of multilateral trade negotiations, a Commission spokesman said. Paemen, a Belgian official who had previously been chief aide to former External Affairs Commissioner Etienne Davignon, has been in his post since January 1985. The spokesman said Paemen will continue as chief spokesman until the retirement on May 1 of Paul Luyten, who is now in charge of EC departments handling negotiations in the world trade body GATT, the OECD and other forums.
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in Frankfurt on Monday, a Bonn Finance Ministry spokesman said. After the meeting the spokesman quoted Stoltenberg as saying he was confident that foreign currencies could be stabilised at around current levels. The meeting came after Baker criticised West Germany for increasing short-term money market interest rates. He had said the rise was not in line with the spirit of the Louvre accord aimed at stabilizing the U.S. dollar last February. The meeting had been arranged last week, the spokesman said. Baker, Stoltenberg and Poehl had agreed to pursue the policies agreed under the Louvre pact with reference to currency stability and monetary policy. Earlier on Monday the Bundesbnak injected liquidity into the West German money market in a move which money market dealers interpreted as an attempt by the West German monetary authority to curb interest rate rises. The spokesman described Monday's talks, which he called private, as very positive.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 338,000 in the week ended March 28 from 355,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,436,000 in the week ended March 21, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was down from 2,480,000 the previous week.
The Andean Development Corp (CAF) said today it is lending 11.7 mln dlrs to Ecuador to help repair 25 miles of oil pipeline destroyed by an earthquake earlier this month. the loan was signed here today in the offices of the caracas based caf by the corporation's president, galo montano perez and ecuadorean ambassador antonio parra gil. the loan had originally been intended to finance an expansion of the pipeline, but following the earthquake the ecuadorean government asked for the terms to be changed so as to permit their use in reconstruction. Ecuador expects oil production to be suspended for four months as a result of the damage, and has asked Venezuela to help by supplying 50,000 barrels per day while the pipeline is repaired. The OPEC member has a production quota of 210,000 bpd but has asked the organization to allow it to produce 310,000 bpd once the repairs are completed so as to compensate the loss.
The operator of a major U.S. crude oil pipeline, shutdown because of flood damage, said it may be several days before repairs are made and the system is functioning again. Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs at Texaco Inc TX>, operator of the pipeline through its subsidiary Texaco Pipeline Co, said the company hopes repairs will begin in about five days and expects it to take several more days to complete. "At this point we are lining up what we know we need, to get the job done," Stevens said, adding that the timing for repairs will depend on the damage to the pipeline which is difficult to assess because of flooding on the Red River. The pipeline was shipping roughly 225,000 barrels of crude oil per day, or about 55 pct of its capacity during the 30 days preceding its shutdown on Saturday, Stevens said. The pipeline was shut down from Cushing, Okla, to Witchita Falls, Kan, on Saturday due to an undetermined leak at the Red River crossing, near the Oklahoma/Texas border, because of severe rains, a spokesman for Texaco said. Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine their requirements. Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices. Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel. Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine their requirements. Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices. Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel.
Canada's February unemployment rate, seasonally adjusted, fell to 9.6 pct from 9.7 pct in January, Statistics Canada said. The rate was 9.8 pct in February last year. Seasonally adjusted employment in February was 11,777,000, compared with 11,747,000 in January, while unemployment slipped to 1,252,000 from 1,255,000.
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) acted to tighten restrictions on microchip exports to countries other than the U.S. To preserve a U.S.-Japan pact on semiconductor trade, but major Japanese chipmakers doubt its usefulness. A MITI spokesman said his ministry had asked chipmakers to issue certificates to specified trading houses stating they are authorised exporters. Trading houses applying for a MITI export licence will be required to show such a certificate, but those without it will not automatically be denied licences, he said. But some industry officials predicted any government measures were likely to have limited effect as long as the world semiconductor market remained weak. U.S. Government and industry officials have complained repeatedly that Japanese chipmakers continue to sell at below cost to third countries despite the July agreement. Japanese firms and officials in turn argue the flow of cheap chips to third countries is due to grey-market sales by third-party brokers, who seek to profit from the gap between low prices in Japan and higher prices based on production costs and set for Japanese makers under the agreement. The MITI spokesman said, "If the percentage of grey market is increasing for one specific company, it suggests they are distributing their products through their sales network knowing they will be exported by some means. In that case we will ask them what they are doing to reduce the figure." MITI earlier asked makers to cut output of certain chips by 10 pct in first-quarter 1987, spokesmen for the firms said. But they doubt the usefulness of the latest move. "As long as there is a gap between prices set under the pact and market prices, there will be people who want to exploit the gap to make money," a Hitachi Ltd HIT.T> spokesman said.
Brazil will import 30,000 barrels per day of crude oil from Kuwait, a spokesman for the state oil company Petrobras said. He said that, unlike Saudi Arabia, Kuwait did not impose any conditions on Brazil. Last month, Petrobras cancelled a 40-mln dlr oil purchase from Saudi Arabia after the Saudis refused to accept credit guarantees from the official Bank of Brazil. The Saudis eventually lifted the condition and Brazil decided to reconfirm the purchase. Brazil currently consumes 1.1 mln barrels of oil per day.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in the week ended March 7 from 373,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,507,000 in the week ended Feb 28, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,477,000 the previous week.
Japan has agreed to drop barriers to American-caught herring and pollock, opening the way for shipments that could reach 300 mln dlrs annually, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter announced. Yeutter said the accord was reached after extensive bilateral negotiations that ended earlier today in Tokyo. He said the Commerce Department estimated U.S. shipments of processed pollock products and herring should rise to 85 mln dlrs this year and to more than 300 mln dlrs annually in later years. There was no immediate assessment of the value of current U.S. shipments, but officials said the pact would lift quotas to the point that Americans would be able to ship nearly all the pollock and herring ordered by Japanese firms. At the same time, Yeutter said Washington was temporarily suspending a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that Japan was unfairly curbing imports of the two fish. He said the complaint would be reviewed later this year after an assessment to see if Japan lived up to the agreement.
The government announced a three billion franc program to combat long-term unemployment amid speculation among political and economic analysts that it is positioning itself for a period of economic reflation. The package presented to the cabinet of Prime Minister Jacques Chirac by Social Affairs and Labour Minister Philippe Seguin today is to be financed out of a 7.5 billion franc contingency fund announced on February 25. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur previously ruled out a reflationary program. Long-term unemployment, defined as being out of work for more than one year, affects about 830,000 people or one third of French unemployed, government figures show. The main measures of the employment program give employers financial incentives to offer short-term work contracts of at least two years and stress retraining to help the long-term unemployed return to the labour market. Training subsidies and exemptions from social security contributions are the main incentives for employers. "Companies tell us that we have to give them a strong incentive to take on people who have fallen out of the labour market and that's why the proposals...Are costly," an aide to Seguin said. The analysts said speculation the government is considering a reflationary program was sparked by Chirac spokesman Denis Baudouin, who said yesterday that ministers were generally agreed on the desirability of relaunching the economy. He appeared to contradict statements by Balladur ruling out economic stimulation despite the government's revision of its 1987 growth forecast to about 2.0 pct from 2.8. Finance ministry officials later clarified Baudouin's remarks, saying there was no question of any move to stimulate the economy through a boost to consumer spending although government policy allowed for increased industrial investment from the proceeds of France's five-year privatisation plan. The 1987 budget allowed for 30 billion francs in revenue from privatisation, to be split between repaying national debt and providing state enterprises with fresh capital. Some political analysts said Baudouin's comments possibly reflect widening differences within the RPR-UDF coalition on social issues ahead of next year's presidential elections. Divisions began to show last December, when a wave of strikes led by transport workers paralysed the country and drove the government into a new mood of conciliation with labour. Officials said that after the success of the privatisation of Cie de Saint Gobain SGEP.PA> and Cie Financiere de Paribas PARI.PA> the government had decided to speed up its five-year privatisation program with the aim of completing a third of it this year, ahead of the presidential elections expected in 1988. The accelerated program could provide additional unbudgeted revenue to boost industrial and research investment and spending on infrastructure such as the national motorway network. The government also today revived a proposal, blocked last year by Socialist president Francois Mitterrand, to encourage more flexible working hours, which it says will boost jobs by improving the competitiveness of French industry. The proposals allowing night-shift work by women and variations in the standard 39-hour working week are to be put to parliament as a self-contained draft bill after being vetoed for procedural reasons by Mitterrand and later the Council of State.
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. trade sanctions against Japan were likely take effect on April 17 in spite of a "full court press" by Japanese officials to avoid them. "All indications are they will take effect," he said. "I would say Japan is applying the full court press ... They certainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explaining their position," Fitzwater told reporters. He noted high level meetings on the trade dispute are underway here but said, "I don't think there's anything I can report and I don't believe there's been any official movement."
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), a leading trader of currency options, plans to extend its trading hours to serve Australasian and Far Eastern markets, exchange president Nicholas Giordano said. He told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between 1900 and 2300 hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the third quarter this year. The PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serve clients in the region and educate financial markets about the advantages of currency options, Giordano said. Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-Pacific tour by exchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of the exchange-trade currency option market against existing over-the-counter option trading during the local working day. Currency options pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had become an accepted means of hedging against foreign exchange risk and had grown in popularity, he said. The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, including a new Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000 contracts daily with underlying open interest of more than 30 billion U.S. Dlrs. Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with the performance of its Australian dollar contract, which since its introduction last year had regularly topped the French franc as the third most popular traded option, with up to 8,000 contracts traded daily. Having the Philadelphia exchange open during the Asia-Pacific market day would open new hedging opportunities, set a truer level for over-the-counter option trading, increase arbitraging opportunities and give corporations and treasuries access to a currency option market of much greater depth and liquidity with the security of a clearing house, he said.
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with assistance of 104 mln stg in the afternoon session. This takes the bank's total help so far today to 219 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a 300 mln stg shortage. The central bank bought outright 104 mln stg in bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.
The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's shortfall to 750 mln stg from 700 mln.
Shell Canada, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group RD> said that it raised crude oil prices by about 47 Canadian cts a barrel today. The increase riased its posted price for Light sweet crude oil to 21.95 dlrs a barrel from its march one level. Light sour crudes were raised to 19.95 dlrs a barrel, the company said.
Japan must try harder to reduce its trade surplus or the yen will come under renewed upward pressure, Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo. He told a press luncheon he hoped Japan could cut its current account surplus by some 10 billion dlrs a year until it is reduced to some 50 to 60 billion dlrs. In the fiscal year ended March 31 the surplus totalled 93.76 billion dlrs, or about 4.5 pct of GNP. The 6,000 billion yen economic stimulation package the government unveiled late last month would help slash Japan's current account surplus by five to six billion dlrs, he said.
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said.
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter stressed the importance of trade negotiations to open foreign markets rather than trade restrictions in a statement to the Senate Finance Committee. "In the long term we cannot repeatedly bludgeon other nations into opening their markets with threats of U.S. restrictions. Rather, we must be able to negotiate credibly for global liberalization," Yeutter said. Yeutter did not mention the recent U.S. trade sanctions against Japanese semiconductors in his testimony on the pending trade bill. Yeutter said the trade bill should increase U.S. competitiveness, aid U.S. trade negotiating leverage, and avoid provoking foreign retaliation. He urged Congress to reject provisions that would mandate U.S. retaliation against foreign unfair trade practices. Yeutter emphasized the importance of the new multilateral trade negotiating round and called on Congress to quickly approve an extension of U.S. negotiating authority. "We want to open foreign markets and establish and enforce rules of international competition, not foster dependence on protection and subsidies," he said.
Ecuador is due to resume limited crude oil output on May 8 when a new 43 km pipeline to neighbouring Colombia should be finished, an energy ministry spokesman said. Oil output was halted on March 5 by an earthquake which damaged 50 km of the main pipeline linking jungle oilfields at Lago Agrio to the Ecuadorean port of Balao on the Pacific. About 13 km of the new link, capable of carrying some 50,000 barrels per day (bpd), has been built, he said. Ecuador pumped 245,000 to 250,000 bpd before the earthquake. The new link will connect Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon in Colombia, the starting point of Columbia's pipeline to the Pacific ocean port of Temuco. The government estimates it will take about four more months to repair the Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline and return output to normal levels, the spokesman said.
Shell Canada Ltd, 72 pct owned by Royal Dutch/Shell Group RD> ST>, scheduled its annual maintenance refinery shutdowns during the next two months, company spokeswoman Judy Wish said. Wish said refineries will stockpile production before the shutdowns to maintain normal supply while maintenance is carried out. Production at Shell's major refinery at Strathcona Alberta, will be closed for about one month, Wish said. There will be no layoffs associated with the refinery maintenance, she added.
Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.2 pct in May, the worst level since the government started compiling unemployment statistics in 1953, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The May rate surpassed the previous record of 3.0 pct marked set in January and April this year. It was also up sharply from 2.7 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted May unemployment totalled 1.91 mln people, up from 1.90 mln in April and 1.62 mln a year earlier. An agency official blamed industrial restructuring and the strong yen for the rise in unemployment. The seasonally adjusted male unemployment rate in May rose to a record 3.2 pct, surpassing the previous record 3.0 pct set in July 1986. This compares with 2.9 pct in April and 2.7 pct a year earlie. Unadjusted male unemployment totalled 1.12 mln, up 180,000 from a year earlier. The female unemployment rate in May was unchanged from April at a record 3.1 pct. A year ago, the rate was 2.8 pct. Unadjusted female unemployment rose 100,000 to 790,000. The yen's appreciation continued to affect employment in manufacturing industries and the total employed in May fell 210,000 or 1.5 pct from a year earlier to 14.10 mln.
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone sounded a conciliatory note in Japan's increasingly bitter row with the United States over trade in computer microchips. "Japan wants to resolve the issue through consultations by explaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the points that need to be corrected," he was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying. While expressing regret over America's decision to impose tariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone said Tokyo was willing to send a high-level official to Washington to help settle the dispute. Government officials said Japan would make a formal request next week for emergency talks and that the two sides would probably meet the week after, just days before the April 17 deadline set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect. Tokyo is expected to propose a joint U.S./Japan investigation of American claims that Japanese companies are dumping cut-price chips in Asian markets. On Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronic goods in retaliation for what it sees as Tokyo's failure to live up to their bilateral chip pact.
Spain's registered unemployment fell by 10,465 people to 2.97 mln or 21.4 pct of the workforce in March, Labour Ministry figures show. Registered unemployment in February was 2.98 mln people, or 21.5 pct of the workforce. The figures were nonetheless higher than those for March 1986 -- 2.8 mln people and 21 pct of the workforce.
U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel said there was a one in five chance that new drilling in Alaska would find oil. "But if it's there, there's a very good chance that it would be a giant field," Hodel said on ABC's "Good Morning America." "So it is the best geological prospect that they (geologists) have talked to me about since I've been involved in this process," he said. Hodel announced yesterday that he would urge Congress to open up 1.5 mln acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil exploration despite fears of environmental damage threatening the Caribou herd in the region. He said today the exploration was needed in an effort to prevent future U.S. oil shortages and said oil drilling in the large Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska proved oil could be drilled without severely damaging the environment. He said the Caribou herd at Prudhoe Bay had tripled, contrary to concerns before the drilling operation that it would endanger the herd.
German banking authorities are weighing rules for banks' off-balance sheet activities in an attempt to cope with the growing volume of sophisticated capital market instruments, banking sources said. Interest rate and currency swaps and currency options are under closest scrutiny, and if revisions are made they may resemble regulation jointly proposed by the U.S. And U.K. To Japan. Juergen Becker, director of the Bundesbank's division of banking law and credit supervision, said the U.S.-British proposals were interesting, but declined to elaborate. But banking sources said West Germany was more likely to produce its own conclusions than to adopt foreign proposals. "There is no formal plan yet, but talks are in the latter stages," one representative of the German Banking Association in Cologne said. Bankers expect rule changes this year. All alterations must be approved by the Bundesbank, West Germany's four major banking associations and the Federal Banking Supervisory Office. Talks have been slowed by the fact that fundamental changes would require a revision of Germany's credit law, which has been in effect since 1934. Authorities favour reinterpreting the credit law to fit present circumstances in order to avoid the long parliamentary political process of changing it, banking sources said. Since the beginning of 1984 the banking law has limited banks' lending to 18 times shareholders' equity plus reserves, on a consolidated basis. But lending ratios do not extend to several newer instruments such as spot and forward currency contracts, currency and interest swaps, commercial paper programs, currency options, interest rate futures in foreign currencies and various innovative types of interest rate hedges. The sources said the main value of the U.S.-U.K. Proposals lay in differentiating between different types of risk factor, and, for instance, in placing greater weight on currency swaps than interest swaps. But even if German banking authorities agree with some of the assessments of swaps, they disagree on how to find balance sheet equivalents for the risk. U.S.-British proposals include a complicated series of formulae for assessing the stream of payments involved in swaps, whose ultimate risk is borne by the financial intermediary, especially when counterparties remain anonymous. This is the so-called market-to-market value. But German authorities are likely to consider this much too complex and to base their evaluation instead on a schedule of lending ratings assigned according to the creditworthiness of the borrowers involved, the sources said. The weightings, also likely if lending ratios are extended to include banks' securities portfolios, are zero for public authorities, 20 pct for domestic banks, 50 pct for foreign banks and 100 pct for other foreign and non-bank borrowers. A further complication is that the more flexible definitions of equity allowed in the U.S. And the U.K. May put German banks at a competitive disadvantage, the sources said. Stricter definitions here also mean the use of a version of the U.S.-U.K. Proposals could far exceed the intent of the U.S. And British authorities, the sources said. One specialist for Dresdner Bank AG said a long-dated foreign exchange forward transaction could, for instance, be brought under the same rule as a cross-currency swap, despite the fact that the risk may be entirely different. How new regulations will affect foreign banks here was uncertain. Many have converted to full subsidiary status and applied for a full banking licence over the last two years in order to lead-manage mark eurobonds. But as their equity capital is fairly small, tight lending ratios will severely hamper foreign banks' freedom of movement, particularly in the growing business of currency swaps, if they are required to include more transactions in the balance sheet, the sources added.
The European Community is willing to offer limited concessions to the United States on one of two major issues which threaten to poison their trade relations next year, an EC commission spokesman said. He said the offer would be made at a meeting later this month between U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter and EC External Relations Commissioner Willy de Clercq. EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen told agriculture ministers meeting in Luxembourg that the EC is willing to make some temporary arrangements to lighten the impact on U.S. Exports of an EC plan to ban the sales of meat from animals fed with growth hormones, the spokesman said. Washington has said it will take trade reprisals if the EC proceeds with the ban from January 1 and if European countries do not quickly cut back what it sees as unfair subsidies to the makers of their Airbus airliner which are harming U.S. Manufacturers. It claims the hormones ban has no scientific basis and will rob it of 130 mln dlrs' worth of exports a year. Diplomatic sources said the Yeutter-de Clercq meeting will take place in London and will also involve the aerospace ministers of France, Britain, West Germany and Spain, the countries involved in the Airbus project.
If the dollar goes the way of Wall Street, Japanese will finally move out of dollar investments in a serious way, Japan investment managers say. The Japanese, the dominant foreign investors in U.S. Dollar securities, have already sold U.S. Equities. But "if the dollar falls steeply, which did not happen yesterday, Japanese investors will definitely try to withdraw significant funds from U.S. Shares," said Akira Kawakami, deputy manager of Nomura Investment Trust and Management Co Ltd's international investment department. An unstable, lower dollar would also affect Japanese investment in U.S. Bonds. "Japan-U.S. Interest rate differentials, which currently look wide enough, mean nothing in the absence of dollar stability," said Kawakami. U.S. Bonds could benefit due to a gloomy economic picture following the estimated huge losses in stocks by major U.S. Institutional and individual investors, he said. The effect should be to rule out any U.S. Interest rate rise. But most Japanese investors in U.S. Bonds are still wiating to see if the dollar really is stable, he said. The dollar was holding firm at above 142 yen on Tuesday morning. "Although Japanese investors sold huge amounts of stocks in New York yesterday, most are still looking for chances to lighten their U.S. Stock inventories," Hiromitsu Sunada, manager of Meiji Mutual Life Insurance Co's international investment department said. Their sales helped send Wall Street stocks down 508 points to 1,738, the market's biggest percentage drop since 1914. "Investment in U.S. Stocks and bonds is difficult, considering the dangers," said Katsuhiko Okiyama, deputy general manager and chief adviser of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's fixed income securities marketing group. Japanese investment at home could start to pick up once markets have stopped reacting to Wall Street, the managers said. The Tokyo yen bond market is likely to stabilise in one or two weeks, which is what investors have been waiting for. The bottom for yen bonds should be around a 6.3 pct yield for the 5.1 pct 89th bond, they said. "The basic background which has supported the stocks and bonds markets has not changed," said Norio Okutsu, assistant general manager of Nikko Securities' bond department. "But new outflows of funds to the U.S. Will be decreasing." However, this was already evident three months ago, he said.
Taiwan imposed currency controls today in what bankers called a desperate move to prevent speculation as the Taiwan dollar appreciated against the U.S. currency. The strict controls will require proof that large remittances to Taiwan are connected to commercial transactions rather than currency speculation. Bankers attacked the controls as ineffective, saying they were a panic reaction to pressure from Washington for faster appreciation of the Taiwan currency against the U.S. dollar, which would slow exports to the United States. Remittances exceeding one mln dlrs earned through exports, shipping, insurance or bank lending will now need government approval, along with remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs from any other source.
Unocal said it raised its postings for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The company said it is now posting West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour at 19 dlrs a barrel. Unocal said its new Light Louisiana Sweet posted price is 19.35 dlrs a barrel. the price move follows a wave of increases initiated by Sun Co yesterday.
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he was unsure whether some of the trade issues straining U.S.-Japanese relations would be resolved before the two countries open trade talks in late April. "We are having high level discussions on them (the issues) within the United States...The relationship on some of those is very strained between us (Japan) at the moment and we need to relieve those strains at the earliest possible date," he said. "I am not sure we can wait until late April," he added. Yeutter is in New Zealand for a two-day informal meeting of trade ministers who are reviewing the Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT). He said he will meet the Japanese delegation over the next few days but declined to discuss methods of relieving the strain between the two countries. Yeutter said earlier the three most contentious trade issues were semiconductors, Japanese government unwillingness to allow public entities to buy U.S. Super-computers and the barring of U.S. Firms from the eight billion U.S. Dlr Kansai airport project near Osaka. The Japanese delegation to the GATT talks said in a statement yesterday they are making major efforts to dismantle trade barriers in their country. "I am convinced that they are attempting to move their policies in the right direction. The question is how far and how fast," Yeutter said.
A Colombian group announced the suspension of its bombings of oil pipelines pending the government's levy of a social tax on foreign petroleum companies and an 800 mln dlrs fine on the Occidental Petroleum Corp OXY>. There was no indication the government would meet the conditions demanded by the leftist National Liberation Army (ELN). According to the state oil firm, ECOPETROL, the ELN carried out 72 attacks on petroleum pipelines between 1984 and 1986. The assaults, the most recent launched two months ago, have caused an estimated total of 50 mln dlrs in damage. In a communique, the ELN said it would demand a tax of one dollar per barrel of crude oil pumped by foreign firms as a condition for maintaining its suspension of the assaults. Foreign oil firms pump an average of 225,083 barrels per day in Colombia. Colombian tax authorities are investigating Occidental, a U.S.-owned firm, for alleged tax evasion. If the charges are proven, the firm could face a fine of up to 800 mln dlrs. The ELN demands the government charge the penalty.
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reached a general consensus on agricultural trade reform under the latest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding but told journalists the consensus covers the principles involved in agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done to improve the global situation in agriculture. Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally to discuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launched in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September. Yeutter said "at least people seem to be going down the same road...But how that translates ultimately into negotiations is another matter entirely." There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal with the problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how we are going to get from here to there," Yeutter said. However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple of years of tough negotiations ahead, he said. "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to plough immense amounts of financial resources into the production of items that nobody wants to buy," he said. He said the long-term answer is to switch some of the financial resources now committed to agriculture to other more productive areas. This would help agriculture because some its inefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, he said. Individual segments in many countries may lose in the process, but it should result in a more rational system of world-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said. It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach a relatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26 billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably more than that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources, he said. Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture in the negotiations, he said "one has to be politically realistic... If there is any chance of getting it (agricultural trade reform) done in two to three years it's going to have to be as part of a larger package."
Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose slightly in the U.S. and the Mediterranean last Friday from the previous week but were lower elsewhere, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline. The soft tone to refining margins reflects large worldwide stocks of petroleum products and thin trading activity, traders said. In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by as much as 26 cts a barrel for West Texas Intermediate, an increase of 1.4 pct from the previous Friday, while sour crudes, such as Alaska North Slope, were up one pct. In the Mediterranean, netback values were up 17 cts to 22 cts a barrel, with Arab Light up 17 cts a barrel to 18.62 dlrs, a 0.9 pct increase from the previous Friday and Urals were up 22 cts a barrel to 19.16 dlrs, a 1.2 pct increase. But netbacks for crude oil refined in Northern Europe was generally lower with Brent valued at 18.89 dlrs, off 30 cts from the previous friday, and Bonny Light was off 17 cts to 19.58 dlrs a barrel. Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower, with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. On the U.S. West Coast, however, netback values for ANS CIF L.A. were weaker with weak gasoline prices sending the yield at cracking plants down 68 cts to 18.42 dlrs from the previous Friday, as shown below in dlrs a barrel. TOPPING.........15.63......16.10......14.30 CRACKING........18.42......19.10......16.86 The Mediterranean region also showed netback values rising last Friday over the previous week with the largest gains shown by Es Sider and the heavier Urals crude oil, which were each up 22 cts a barrel last Friday to 19.40 dlrs and 19.16 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Netback values for the mediterranean region are shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ES SIDER........19.40......19.18......16.44 ARAB LIGHT......18.61......18.44......15.52 IRAN LT.........19.25......19.08......16.16 KUWAIT..........18.51......18.33......15.42 URALS cif.......19.16......18.94......16.07 Netbacks in Northern Europe's refinery region were lower last friday from the previous week with Brent falling 1.6 pct to 18.89 dlrs a barrel. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Northern Europe are shown below in dlrs a barrel. ................MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 BRENT...........18.89......19.19......16.77 BONNY LIGHT.....19.58......19.75......17.15 ARAB LIGHT......18.49......18.52......16.07 URALS CIF.......19.02......18.98......16.54 Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Singapore are shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ATTAKA..........19.23......19.24......16.72 ARAB LIGHT......18.00......18.10......15.55 OMAN............18.21......18.25......16.31 DUBAI...........18.09......18.21......15.86 ARAB HEAVY......16.63......16.73......14.24
European Community unemployment fell slightly in February to just under 17 mln from 17.1 mln in January, the EC statistic's agency Eurostat said. It said the fall came despite a bad winter in most of the EC when seasonal factors could be expected to have had a more adverse effect. However, the agency added, the long-term trend was virtually unchanged stating that compared to February 1986 the number of registered unemployed increased by 222,000.
There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise in 1987, but Moscow's current trade reforms should result in more trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said. Sergey Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want. But reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in future. Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987. But he said that even if all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year. "The post-detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the U.S.," he said.
The U.S. civilian unemployment rate fell to 6.6 pct in March from 6.7 pct in February, the Labor Department said. The number of non-farm payroll jobs rose 164,000 last month after rising a revised 236,000 in February. That was down from the previously reported 337,000 rise in February. The March unemployment rate was the lowest since March, 1980. It had remained unchanged at 6.7 pct for three straight months before the March decline. The rise in non-farm payrolls was the smallest since a decline last June of 75,000, the department said. Last month's unemployment rate was down from the 7.2 pct level in March, 1986. Growth in jobs continued in March but was slower than in recent months, with the gains concentrated in service industries. The number of goods-producing jobs fell 68,000 in March, while service-producing jobs rose 232,000 to bring the total jobs in the department's survey of businesses to 102.03 mln in March. Business and health services showed the largest gains in jobs, while manufacturing employment fell by 25,000. The average work week fell to 34.8 hours in March from 35.0 hours in February, the department said. Manufacturing hours fell to 40.9 per week from 41.2 hours in February, but overtime hours increased to 3.7 from 3.6. The department's survey of households showed the number of unemployed stood at 7.85 mln out of a work force of 119.2 mln. The number of persons working part time for economic reasons fell in March to 5.46 mln from 5.78 mln in February. The loss of factory jobs brought the March total to 19.19 mln jobs and was concentrated in automobile, electrical and electronic manufacturing. Construction employment also lowered the number of jobs in the goods-producing sector, falling by 45,000 after seasonal adjustment, the department said. Mining employment was little changed in March and has not experienced any substantial erosion since the rapid job losses in oil and gas drilling in the first two-thirds of 1986. Other service industries that increased jobs last month were finance, insurance, and real estate.
Australia's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to 8.4 pct of the estimated workforce in March from 8.2 pct in February and 7.9 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said. The number of jobless rose to 650,700 from 631,900 in February and 593,200 a year earlier, the Bureau said. Unadjusted, the number of unemployed rose to 702,600 from 699,600 in February but the rate eased to 9.0 pct from 9.1, reflecting a slight increase in the estimated workforce. In March 1986, 640,400 persons, or 8.5 pct of the workforce, were out of work.
The New York Mercantile Exchange said it will introduce exchanges for physicals (EFPS) to its energy futures markets April one. An exchange spokeswoman said the change will allow oil traders that do not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market. EFPs, already in effect for platinum futures on NYMEX, are expected to increase the open interest and liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according to traders and analysts. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved the rule change in February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman.
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 400 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 1.085 billion stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall in note circulation will add some 340 mln stg, exchequer transactions around 300 mln and bankers' balances above target about 50 mln.
Swiss unemployment edged down to 0.9 pct of the working population from one pct in January and in February 1986, the Federal Office of Industry, Trade and Labour said. Seasonally adjusted, however, there was a slight rise in unemployment. The number out of work fell to 28,439, down 1,142 compared with the previous month. The number of vacant positions registered with employment offices stood at 11,968 against 10,694 in January.
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the United States and Japan must work to avert a possible trade war, and he added that a trade war would not be in the interests of Britain. Lawson told journalists that "the prospects for the (U.K.) economy look very very good - providing we can avoid a trade war." He stressed that "a heavy responsiblity in different ways lies on Japan and the United States to ensure that we do avoid such a trade war." Asked whether he believed such a trade war could be averted, Lawson replied, "I very much hope so." Britain last week warned that it would retaliate if Japan did not move soon to open its markets to outside competition. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher gave notice that the U.K. Would fight the Japanese government's attempt to prevent (Cable and Wireless Plc) (CAWL.L) from taking a significant position in a new Japanese international telecommunications venture. But British officials are now trying to dampen anti-Japanese rhetoric, to try to keep developments under control. The British Conservative government will on Thursday consider what legal options are available to it to try to increase U.K. Access to Japanese markets, officials said.
Foreign Ministers of the Association of South-east Asian Nations (ASEAN) said they expect closer economic ties with Japan. A communique issued at the end of a two-day ministerial meeting said Asean hoped for greater Japanese investment in the region, better access for Asean products in the Japanese market and larger numbers of visiting Japanese tourists. The ministers are due to start four days of talks tomorrow with officials of the U.S., Japan, the European Community, New Zealand, Australia and Canada, including Secretary of State George Shultz and Japan's Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari. The Asean communique noted Japan's large trade surplus, which it said would enable Tokyo to play a greater role in the economic development of ASEAN and in facilitating closer ASEAN economic cooperation. "Japan could also help to facilitate the flow of Japanese investments to ASEAN through the provision of attractive financial assistance and incentives for its private sector," it said. The communique also welcomed President Reagan's firm action in vetoing trade protectionist measures in the Congress. The communique said the ASEAN ministers were concerned over the proliferation of protectionist policies, pressures and measures in developed countries, the continued depressed level of commodity prices, the instability of exchange rates and the lack of a comprehensive solution to the world debt situation.
Basic reform of Japan's protected farm sector is a key to shifting its economy away from export to domestic-led growth, a vital step if it is to trim its trade surplus, securities analysts said. The farm sector, which is protected by import tariffs and quotas, propped up by subsidies and price supports, and sheltered by the tax system, has ample room for change, they said. "In economic terms, reform would be a plus," said Christopher Chew of brokerage firm James Capel and Co. The ultimate cost of the existing system is food prices twice those in Europe and two to three times those in the U.S., The analysts said. Spending on food accounts for about one quarter of the average household's budget and roughly 10 pct of the gross national product (GNP), according to a study by Chew. Reducing these prices could increase household spending power by five pct, his study said. The money could be spent on products which would have a more direct impact in boosting domestic growth, it added. "There's a lot of slack," a U.S. Government official in Tokyo said. "All that money could be spent on something else." Direct central government subsidies to the farm sector amount to some five billion dlrs per year. Independent estimates put total subsidies from all sources as high as 37 billion and the analysts said much of that money is wasted. Changing tax laws to encourage city residents who only farm on weekends to put their land up for sale for residential development would also give a boost to domestic spending, economists said. "Housing construction is the key strategic variable in the expansion of domestic demand," wrote Chihiro Nakajima, professor at Kyoto Gakuen University. Japanese business groups are calling for staged farm reform to shift some of the burden of trade friction and economic restructuring away from the manufacturing sector and onto the farm sector. Employers groups also want change. "If you really want to expand domestic demand, the way to do it is not to raise wages recklessly, but to reduce commodity prices," Bumpei Otsuki, President of the Japan Federation of Employers' Associations told a recent press conference. External pressures are rising as the U.S. And Europe seek removal of tariffs and quotas to help reduce their trade deficits with Japan. But vested Japanese interests opposed to change remain well entrenched, dimming prospects for quick reform, analysts said. Although the full-time farm population is falling and there are signs the LDP is paying more attention to urban constituencies, the ruling party remains heavily dependent on farm votes in the rural areas. One rural vote is worth several city votes due to the pattern of constituency borders. The LDP is already in political trouble over its tax reform plan and does not want to raise another sticky issue so soon, the analysts said. Consumer groups are politically weak and tend to accept the traditional view that higher prices are a small fee to pay for national food security, they said. Powerful agricultural cooperatives are fiercely opposed to import liberalisation, but are more flexible about reforms aimed at stepping up productivity, they said. Reform, when it comes, will be in response to specific pressure rather than an all-embracing program, said Chew.
The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future, the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of resources and maintain the free trade system, it added.
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he doubted Japan could avoid the April 17 imposition of U.S. tariffs on its semiconductor products. The three high-level Japanese government representatives who would be coming here in the next few days to discuss the issue would probably be unable to show evidence of continued compliance with the semiconductor trade agreement, Yeutter told reporters. "It would be impossible to provide evidence of compliance with the agreement" based on sales of only a few days time, he said. Asked by reporters if the sanctions were 100 pct certain for April 17, he said, "One could never foreclose all options. We have an obligation to listen to the arguments our trading partners make." He said the length of the sanctions will be determined by Japan and Japanese semiconductor firms. "They would be lifted only when persuasive evidence provided demonstrates compliance," he said. "Whether a few weeks or a few months depends on their actions," Yeutter added.
Mobil Oil Corp of U.S. Plans to open an office in Peking to develop oil exploration opportunities in China, the China Daily said. It quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently in Peking, as saying he is optimistic about investment prospects in China and that Peking will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest here. It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products from China in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no more details.
Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years.
EC ministers have approved financial packages for several Mediterranean states totalling 1.6 billion European currency units, an EC official said. The packages, part of special EC trade agreements with Tunisia, Egypt, Lebanon, Israel, Algeria, Morocco and Jordan until 1992, include 615 mln Ecus in grants, he said. They include one billion Ecus in loans from the European Investment Bank, the EC long-term financing arm. The framework for the transfers was signed yesterday by EC farm ministers after being agreed in principle by foreign ministers earlier.
The Zambian kwacha fell at this week's foreign exchange auction to 18.75 kwacha to the dollar from last week's 16.95, the Bank of Zambia said. The rate was the lowest since the auctions resumed two weeks ago under a new two-tier exchange rate system worked out with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The Bank of Zambia said it received 370 bids, ranging from 13.00 to 20.75 kwacha, for the six mln dlrs on offer. One hundred and thirty-five bids were successful. A British High Commission spokesman said Britain would put eight mln stg into the auction at a rate of one mln a week as soon as Zambia reached a full agreement with the IMF. The money could be spent only on goods produced and supplied by British firms, excluding luxuries and defence equipment, the spokesman added.
Australia's seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate eased to 8.2 pct of the estimated workforce in February from 8.3 pct in January, compared with 7.9 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said. The number of unemployed declined to 632,100 from 638,300 in January, against 594,500 in February 1986, it said. But unadjusted, the number of jobless rose to 699,800 or 9.1 pct of the workforce from 671,400 or 8.9 pct in January and 658,500 or 8.7 pct a year earlier.
The Emirates Industrial Bank has predicted a modest economic recovery in the Gulf Arab states following higher oil revenues. A bank study, carried by the Emirates news agency WAM, said total oil revenues of the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries were likely to reach 39 billion dlrs this year from 33.5 billion in 1986. The GCC groups Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The bank said the improvement would result from higher oil prices made possible by last December's OPEC accord to restrain overall group production. These curbs have pushed up oil prices from around eight dollars a barrel in mid-1986 to around 18 dlrs. "All signs point to the possibility of a modest recovery in the economies of these (GCC) countries, although this expected growth will not be similar to that of the (1970s) boom years," the study said. It added, however, that GCC states would experience higher budget deficits this year because of needs arising from past recession and the difficulty of making fresh spending cuts. The study said the combined GCC bugdet deficits would rise to 23.2 billion dlrs from 17.9 billion last year. It said lower oil exports cut the GCC states' combined trade surplus to 18 billion dlrs in 1986 from 21.5 billion in 1985. The UAE suffered a 19.5 pct drop in gross domestic product to 77.6 billion dirhams last year from 96.4 billion in 1985, it added.
Canadian Imperial Oil, 70 pct Exxon owned, said it raised its posting for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton by 32 canadian cts a barrel, effective today. The company said its new posting for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton is 25.60 canadian dlrs a barrel.
ORS Corp> said Dominion Securities (Alberta) Inc> has been appointed to offer common shares in a new Canadaina company being organized to exploit heavy oil production opportunities in Canada and Western Europe. ORS said the offer for private sale of the stock being made on a best efforts basis is designed to raise five mln Canadian dlrs which the new company will invest in properties and projects using the Electromagnetic Well Stimulation Process developed by IIT Research Institute under sponsorship of ORS.
President Reagan warned the U.S. Congress in his weekly radio address against passing what he called dangerous, protectionist trade legislation that would tie his hands in trade negotiations with Japan and other countries. Reagan, who will hold talks with Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone here this week, said he would lift tariffs imposed last week against some Japanese products as soon as Tokyo complied with a U.S.-Japanese pact on semiconductors. U.S. Officials gave the same message to former Japanese Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe in meetings in Washington last week. In his weekly radio address on Saturday, Reagan said he would tell Nakasone: "We want to continue to work cooperatively on trade problems and want very much to lift these trade restrictions as soon as evidence permits. Reagan said the 100 pct tariffs he imposed on some 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods was a special case of trade retaliation and did not signal a shift in what he called his staunch anti-protectionist policies. "In imposing these tariffs we were just trying to deal with a particular problem, not begin a trade war," he said. But Congress is ready to approve tough trade legislation to try to turn round the record U.S. Trade deficit, which has cost millions of U.S. Jobs and closed thousands of factories. A vote on a trade bill sponsored by Congressman Richard Gephardt is expected to come during Nakasone"s visit. It would penalise nations with large trade surpluses and which are alleged to use unfair trade practices. Reagan warned Congress that such action would undercut his ability to negotiate on trade issues with Nakasone and others. "With my meeting with Prime Minister Nakasone and the Venice economic summit coming up, it"s terribly important not to restrict a president"s options in such trade dealings with foreign governments," he said. "Unfortunately, some in the Congress are trying to do exactly that," he said. Reagan said he would keep the American people "informed on this dangerous legislation because it"s just another form of protectionism and I may need your help to stop it."
Belgian unemployment, based on the number of jobless drawing unemployment benefit, fell to 11.8 pct of the working population at the end of March from 12.1 pct at end of February, the National Statistics Office said. The rate compares with 12.0 pct at the end of March, 1986. The total number of jobless stood at 495,208, compared with 508,392 in February and 504,652 in March last year.
The Federal Reserve said it will enter the U.S. Government securities market after the 1300 EST weekly bill auction to purchase around 900 mln dlrs of Treasury bills for customers, a spokesman said. He said the Fed will purchase bills with maturities from May through September 10. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed announced the operation.
Sweden's trade surplus rose to 3.6 billion crowns in February from 1.5 billion in January and 3.48 billion in February 1986, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. The trade surplus for the first two months of the year rose to 5.1 billion crowns from 4.9 billion in the corresponding period of 1986. The report said February imports stood at 20.1 billion crowns while exports were 23.7 billion.
Triton Energy Corp said proven reserves of the Villespedue oil field in France's Paris Basin were estimated at a total of 67.5 mln barrels on March one, up 39 pct from 48.7 mln barrels on May 31, 1986. Triton said its 60 pct owned Triton Europe Plc> subsidiary has a 50 pct interest in the field which is located 50 miles east of Paris. The other 50 pct is held by Total Exploration S.A.>, the field's operator.
Iraq said its forces sank three Iranian boats which tried to approach its disused deep water oil terminal in the northern Gulf today. A military spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi news agency, said other Iranian boats fled. He did not identify the vessels. Iraq's major oil outlets in the northern Gulf were closed shortly after the war with Iran started in late 1980.
New Zealand's unemployment rate was 3.9 pct of the workforce in the quarter ended December 31, unchanged from a revised 3.9 pct (preliminary 3.8 pct) in the previous quarter but slightly above 3.8 pct in the year-earlier quarter, the Statistics Department said. The Department, citing the Household Labour Force Survey, said in a statement the number of unemployed in October- December 1986 was 61,500 against 60,500 in the September quarter and 60,500 a year earlier.
New Zealand clearing house DataBank Systems Ltd> said it will know tomorrow what services it will be able to provide during a strike by bank officers against trading banks and DataBank set for March 9 and 10. Trading banks polled by Reuters said their ability to offer money market services during the strike depends on whether Databank remains open, and whether the banks have enough staff to process transactions. A spokesman for the New Zealand Foreign Exchange Association said dealers would be able to trade during the strike. But the spokesman added that from March 6 to 10 the value date of currency transactions will be March 16. Trading bank spokesmen told Reuters they will try to honour transactions in which an offshore party sought payment on March 9 or 10, but they could not guarantee settlement. The Futures Exchange said trading members and their clients will be able to continue trading provided they have made suitable financial arrangements. The trading banks affected are the Bank of New Zealand>, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd ANZA.S>, Westpac Banking Corp WSTP.S> and National Bank of New Zealand Ltd>.
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with assistance worth 129 mln stg in the afternoon session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 100 mln stg. The central bank purchased 129 mln stg bank bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct.
The 1992 deadline for abolishing economic barriers within the European Community should help French economic growth and create jobs, president of the French employers' federation CNPF Francois Perigot said. "Having a market at our disposal which is as homogeneous and accessible as that of Europe is an incredible piece of luck," he told Le Figaro in an interview. He said that the majority of French business leaders were enthusiastic about the abolition of barriers and saw it as an opportunity rather than a danger for their companies. "It can permit us to return to a growth rate which is much better than we could achieve in isolation. We know that we have to reestablish growth at three pct a year to solve the enormous problems confronting us -- and I am referring mainly to unemployment," Perigot added. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said yesterday that French growth would be just two pct this year, the same as last year and compared with the government's original 2.8 pct target.
Unemployment in the U.K. Fell a provisional seasonally-adjusted 44,100 in February, to total 3.07 mln or 11.1 pct of the workforce, the Employment Department said. In January, seasonally adjusted unemployment fell by a revised 1,100 to 11.3 pct, it said. Initially the January position was reported as flat. The unadjusted jobless total, including school leavers, fell to 3.23 mln, or 11.7 pct, from 3.30 mln, 11.9 pct, in January. February was the seventh successive month that seasonally adjusted unemployment registered a fall. It was at a peak of 11.7 pct last summer. Lord Young, the Employment Minister, said there appeared little doubt the monthly fall, which has been running at about 20,000, will continue. A Department spokesman said the sharp fall in February reflected some compensation for the flat figure in January and continued the downward trend seen in the past six months. He said the February fall was spread throughout the country and among men and women.
U.K. Unemployment fell a record provisional, seasonally-adjusted 64,300 in May to a total 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, the Employment Department said. In April, seasonally-adjusted unemployment fell by an upwardly revised 21,600 to 3.02 mln or 10.9 pct, it said. The unadjusted jobless total in May, including school leavers, alos fell a record 121,000 to 2.99 mln or 10.8 pct from April's 3.11 mln, 11.2 pct. May was the eleventh successive decline from a peak last summer of 11.6 pct, the Employment Department said. "Unemployment has fallen to under three mln for the first time in over three years. The May fall of 64,000 was the largest drop since records were first kept (in 1948)," Employment Minister Norman Fowler said. All regions have seen above average falls in long term unemployment during the past year, he added. The last time the adjusted total of unemployed was below three mln was July 1984, while the unadjusted total was last below this level in June 1983.
The dollar's tumble to a record low of 144.70 yen in Tokyo today motivated some major Japanese investors to lighten their U.S. Bond inventory further and is expected to spur diversification into investment assets including foreign and domestic shares, dealers said. The key U.S. 7-1/2 pct Treasury bond due 2016 fell to a low of 96.08-12 in early Tokyo trade against the 98.05-06 New York finish, then recovered to 96.20-22. Some trust bank pension fund acccounts and investment trusts were seen selling several hundred million dollars on the foreign exchange market here today, accentuating the unit's tumble, securities house dealers said. They seem undecided on what to do with the fresh yen cash positions resulting from their dollar sales today, and are sidelined until the currency market stabilises and the interest rates outlook clarifies, a Nikko Securities Co Ltd currency trader said. The dollar's plunge and low yields on U.S. Bonds will further promote diversification into other foreign investments, as well as call back funds into the domestic bond and stock markets from overseas bond markets, securities bond managers said. They said major Japanese investors in the past two years are estimated to have held 50 to 80 pct of their foreign portfolios in U.S. Bonds but many have lightened their U.S. Bond inventory to as low as 40 pct. Since late last year, Japanese investors, seeking substantial liquidity and attractive yields, have used fresh funds to buy mark and Canadian dollar bonds and, after the Paris currency pact, actively bought French franc bonds and gilts while gradually lightening U.S. Bond inventories, the managers said. Dealers said funds tied up in foreign assets had flowed into local bond and stock markets as well. The yield of the key 5.1 pct 89th bond dropped to a record low of 4.080 pct today from the 4.140 Saturday finish and compared with 4.25 pct on three-month certificates of deposit. The key bond has fluctuated less than five basis points for more than a month here, suggesting most dealers could not satisfy their needs for capital gains, dealers said. A market survey by Reuters showed some active accounts in U.S. Treasuries are currently dealing on Tokyo's stock market. The stock market's bullishness late last week was partly due to funds transferred from U.S. Treasuries, dealers said. Japanese net purchases of foreign securities in the first half of March fell an estimated one billion dlrs compared with average monthly net purchases of 7.7 billion for the whole of 1986, Finance Ministry sources said. The steep fall is due to Japanese investors' cool attitude towards U.S. Bonds, which had amounted to more than 80 pct of total foreign securities purchased, securities houses managers said. Foreign stock buying in March is expected to exceed the record high of 1.5 billion dlrs seen in December, they said. "Diversification of foreign portfolios is underway and we have bought bonds in currencies such as marks, the Canadian dollar, the ECU and French franc," a fund manager at Yasuda Trust and Banking Co Ltd> said.
Treasury Secretary James Baker said that changes in exchange rates have generally been orderly and have improved the prospects for a reduction in external imbalances to more sustainable levels. In remarks before the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee, Baker reiterated a Group of Seven statement last night that the substantial exchange rate changes since the Plaza agreement 18 months ago have "now brought currencies within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals." Baker said, "These exchange rate shifts have generally been orderly, and have improved prospects for the reduction of external imbalances to more sustainable levels." As they are today, the trade and current account imbalances "simply are not sustainable," Baker told the ministers. He said that the Reagan administration was resisting "strong domestic pressure" for trade protection and was working closely with the U.S. Congress in crafting a trade bill. "While we cannot yet be sure of the outcome, we are doing what we can to ensure that the bill is not protectionist," he said. Baker also urged the International Monetary Fund's executive board to review possible modifications to the Fund's compensatory financing facility before the annual meeting this fall. "We should pay particular attention to the lack of continuing conditionality associated with the use of the CFF and to whether shortfalls in export earnings are indeed temporary," he said.
The White House, distancing itself from remarks by the administration's budget chief, said the Federal Reserve's current course of monetary policy was appropriate. "The administration feels that the current course of monetary policy is appropriate," White House spokesman Marlin Fitwater said. Fitzwater said the administration did not endorse remarks by White House budget chief James Miller, who said he was concerned the Federal Reserve might overreact to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar by raising interest rates. More
