A new method of calculating Sweden's unemployment figures reduced the number of jobless by a sixth, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Statistics (SCB) said, reporting a substantial drop in the past year. According to the revised data there were 94,000 jobless in February representing 2.2 pct of the workforce against 120,000 or 2.8 pct of the workforce in February 1986. SCB official Olle Wessberg said the new figures were based on a more extensive survey of the unemployed which brought Sweden into line with the practises recommended by the Geneva-based International Labour Organisation. Wessberg said the new method cut the number of unemployed by about 16 pct. "The way we are now collecting data is far more accurate and we are asking many more questions to find out whether the jobless want work, whether they are able to work and whether they have actually looked for work," he told Reuters. The new method was first used for the January figures, which showed unemployment dropping to 2.1 pct of the workforce from 2.7 pct (old style) in December, but Wessberg said the change had apparently not been noticed by the press. Recalculated according to the new method, unemployment in February 1986 would have stood at 2.2 pct, the SCB said.
President Reagan has reaffirmed his opposition to protectionism and his chief spokesman said trade sanctions imposed on Japan were unlikely to start a trade war. "We don't want to go down that road," Reagan was quoted as telling Prime Minister Jacques Chirac after the visiting French official expressed concern about the rising tide of protectionist sentiment in the United States. Later, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater defended the new sanctions against Japan and said administration officials "do not believe this will result in a trade war." "It is the first time that the United States has taken an action of this type and it is significant but it is nothing to be alarmed about," the presidential spokesman added. "We do not want protectionism ... We do not want a trade war," he said. Fitzwater said the president was forced to act in the Japanese microchip case because Tokyo had failed to fulfill "an agreement to make some corrections." Noting that there are "enormous pressures in the Congress and the land" for the United States to take a tough stand, he said, "This was a case where we felt we simply had to act." Fitzwater said the decision to impose sanctions was "well considered by this administration and not taken lightly." While the White House official held open the possibility that Washington and Tokyo will settle their trade dispute, he indicated a settlement probably would not come in time to head off the sanctions. "We are always open to negotations ... Whether it (a settlement) could occur in time to prevent this (the sanctions) from going into effect is questionable at this point," the spokesman said. The sanctions take effect in mid-April.
Canada had a trade surplus of 1.25 billion dlrs in February compared with an upward revised 623 mln dlrs surplus in January, Statistics Canada said. The January surplus originally was reported at 533 mln dlrs. The February surplus last year was 189 mln dlrs. February exports, seasonally adjusted, were 10.44 billion dlrs against 9.85 billion in January and 10.05 billion in February, 1986. February imports were 9.19 billion dlrs against 9.23 billion in January and 9.86 billion in February, 1986.
A/S Norske Shell>, Royal Dutch/Shell Group's RD.AS> Norwegian subsidiary, said it has nearly concluded a 10 billion crown development scheme for Norway's Draugen oil field and will declare the field commercial in the near future. Pending government approval of the scheme, the field could come on stream in 1992, making it Norway's northermost field development and the first such project on the Haltenbanken tract off central Norway. Work on the project could begin as early as January 1988, a Shell spokesman said. Shell has not released projected output levels for the field, where water depth is 240-270 meters. The spokesman said the field's partners have agreed to develop Draugen with a 300-meter, single-leg concrete gravity-base platform. The scheme also proposes using remote subsea production wells to tap the field's reservoir, estimated to contain 375 mln barrels of oil, and an offshore buoy-loading system to transport oil from the field by ship. Partners on Draugen are Shell, the operator, with a 30 pct stake, British Petroleum Co Plc BP.L> unit BP Petroleum Development (Norway) Ltd> (20 pct) and state-owned Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S STAT.OL> (Statoil) (50 pct).
Turkey has announced a tender to import 100,000 tonnes of white crystal sugar with an advertisement in local newspapers. Turkish Sugar Factories said in the advertisement there was a 50 pct option to increase or decrease the amount and bids should reach it before March 24. The semi-official Anatolian Agency recently quoted Turkish Minister of Industry and Trade Cahit Aral as saying Turkey will export 100,000 tonnes of sugar this year and import the same amount.
The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system.
British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe called on industrial and developing countries to combat trade protectionism and remove barriers which impede free trading in agricultural products. Howe said in an address to the annual meeting of the U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) that success in fighting protectionism hinges on the current Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. He said Britain is committed to resisting and combatting protectionism because free trade is vital to Britain where 30 pct of the gnp comes from trade in goods and services. Howe urged developing countries to open up their markets, remove measures distorting free trade in services and provide protection for intellectual property rights. He said industrial nations should also adopt macro-economic policies which help reduce trade imbalances and promote stable currency relationships. Howe said the agricultural industry, plagued by surpluses and falling commodity prices in recent years, is over subsidised and over protected. But the problem of farm surpluses must be tackled despite the fact that it is politically difficult for any government to reverse the trend of growing farm subsidies. "This problem of over-subsidisation and over-protection of agriculture will dog us in the years ahead and it will need the sustained application of all our energy and our imagination to find solutions," Howe said.
The European Community Commission has told EC member states that it is not prepared to discuss EC sugar prices while sugar traders threaten to make a huge sale into intervention stocks to protest against its policies, Commission sources said. "Our position is that we are not willing to discuss the problems of market prices at a time when traders are making threats," one source said. The sources said the Commission's view was made clear at a meeting of its sugar management committee today. They said French, West German and Dutch officials had informed the committee that traders in their countries intended to sell just over 850,000 tonnes of sugar into EC intervention stocks. The Commission riposted by signalling that it would sell the sugar sold into intervention back onto the EC market by tender, a move that would push down prices. The sources said French traders planned to sell 775,000 tonnes into intervention stocks, West German traders 7,500 tonnes and Dutch traders 2,500.
Dutch port and transport union, FNV, agreed to an employers' request to reconvene abandoned peace talks tonight to try to end strikes that have disrupted Rotterdam's general cargo sector for the past six weeks, a union spokesman said. Talks broke down Thursday when the union walked out after employers tabled their final offer to end the strikes which started January 19 in protest at planned redundancies of 800 from the sector's 4,000 workforce, starting with 350 this year. The employers' invitation to restart the talks comes on the day a deadline set by Minister of Social Affairs Louw de Graaf for a resolution of the dispute expires. De Graaf said if the dispute had not ended by today he would withdraw the 10 mln guilder annual labour subsidy to the sector. No comment was immediately available from the employers' organization.
Treasury secretary James Baker predicted the U.S. trade deficit would decline 15-20 billion dlrs this year. However, he acknowledged signs were still lacking on such a decline. "We think we are beginning to see changes," he told the House Appropriations Committee. "It has begun to level off (but) we don't see it beginning to go down yet," he told the panel.
The Bank of England said it did not operate in the money market during the morning. Initially, the bank forecast a liqudity shortage of some 300 mln stg for the market today. Overnight interbank sterling traded at the 11-1/4 1/8 pct level for most of the morning while period rates have eased on the strength of sterling, dealers said. At 1200 gmt, sterling's trade-weighted index was up 0.6 at 72.7.
Cold and wet weather in northern, western and central parts of Europe continued to slow beet growth but plant density is reported to be good in most countries, sugar statistician F.O. Licht said. Temperatures were too low for the season and the rain has hampered field work and occasionally led to water-logged fields. But in eastern and southeastern Europe, warmer weather has boosted sugar beet growth. Weather in the Soviet Union also allowed good beet development, Licht said. In Sweden beet growth has been delayed, although plant population is reported to be regular and good. Cool and rainy weather slowed beet growth in Denmark and crop prospects are rated as slightly below normal. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, it was rather cool with heavy rainfall in places which has delayed beet growth. In France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and West Germany, it was mostly cool with frequent and often heavy rainfall which continued to slow down beet growth and often made field work impossible. In Austria, it was warm with some rainfall, which was favourable for beet growth, Licht said. In Czechoslovakia and Poland, it was mostly warm, favouring beet development. but some heavy rain may have caused damage. In the European beet growing regions of the Soviet Union, it was warm with showers over most areas and weather was generally good for the emergence and growth of beets. In south eastern Europe, warm weather with some rainfall boosted beet development. Labour trouble threatens the beet crop in Spain. Disputes between the factories and the trade unions are threatening to delay the start of processing in the southern areas, where beets are maturing very early this year.
Hundreds of marines were on alert at 11 key Brazilian ports after 40,000 seamen decided to remain on indefinite strike, even after the Higher Labour Court Saturday ruled it illegal, union leaders said. The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years, started on February 27, and union leaders said they would not return to work unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipowners have offered a 100 per cent raise, which the seamen rejected. "We have nothing to lose. If they want to lay off the workers, fine, but we are determined to carry on with our protest until the end," a union leader said. more He said they had decided in a meeting that if the marines take over the ships, the seamen would abandon the vessels and let the marines handle the situation by themselves. A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said the order to send marines to take over the ports was given by Navy Minister Henrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of national security. But he said there were no incidents. The strike has cut exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle. Petrol station owners in four states also continued their shutdown and there were fears that the combination of the two stoppages could lead to a serious fuel shortage.
Spain's registered unemployment fell by 10,465 people to 2.97 mln or 21.4 pct of the workforce in March, Labour Ministry figures show. Registered unemployment in February was 2.98 mln people, or 21.5 pct of the workforce. The figures were nonetheless higher than those for March 1986 -- 2.8 mln people and 21 pct of the workforce.
The Bank of Japan is considering expanding the 60 billion yen daily limit on each securities firm's outstanding transactions in the yen call market at the request of the securities industry, Bank of Japan sources said. But before doing this, the Bank is waiting to see the effect on brokers' fund raising of the change, effective in August, to a shorter settlement period for cash bond transactions, the sources said.
Kenya devalued the shilling by 0.6 pct against the special drawing right (SDR) in response to the decline of the dollar last last week, bankers said. The Central Bank of Kenya set the shilling at 20.7449 to the SDR compared with the 20.6226 rate in force since the last devaluation on March 31. The Kenyan shilling has lost 5.6 pct of its value against the SDR this year in a series of devaluations designed to keep the value of the dollar above 16 shillings.
Shell Canada Ltd said its Shell Canada Products Ltd unit will sell three tankers, effective April one, 1987, to Socanav Inc>. Terms were not disclosed. Shell also said it will contract exclusively from Socanav normal marine distribution requirements for domestic markets, with some exceptions, for an initial 10-year period. Shell also said its Shell Canadian Tankers Ltd unit will lay off 13 employees and that Socanav will offer jobs to 41 employees. The three Shell vessels are Lakeshell, Eastern Shell and Northern Shell, which range in size from 6,000 to 10,000 tonnes, Shell said. Shell Canada is 72 pct owned by Royal Dutch/Shell Group RD>.
The National Weather Service said warnings of gale force winds remained in effect over lakes Erie, Huron and Michigan. Also, warnings have been posted for large waves and beach erosion along the shores of the Lakes. Winds gusting to 45 mph caused four to six foot waves along the western and southern shores of Lake Michigan during the morning. Advisories for low wind chill temperatures have also been posted across portions of upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Early morning gusty winds brought the wind chill to 15 and 25 degrees below zero. Freezing rain was scattered over central Colorado by mid morning, also over central Kansas and northeast Illinois. Snow reached from south central Montana across Wyoming, western Nebraska and western Kansas. Snow also extended across northern Wisconsin, upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Rain reached along the northern Pacific Coast, across northwest Utah, Maryland, Deleware, Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia and northern Alabama.
The Energy Department said it reached proposed oil pricing settlements totaling 680,150 dlrs with the operator and four working interest owners of A.D. LeBlanc No. 1 well, Vermillion Parish, La. Trigon Exploration Co., Inc operated the well from June 1979 to January 1981 for D. Bryan Ferguson, C. William Rogers, Omni Drilling Partnership No 1978-2 and Entex Inc. DOE alleged Trigon caused overcharges of 624,208 dlrs by improperly classifying its oil as "newly discovered crude," a classification that allowed charging higher prices during a period of price controls. It said the proposed settlements would resolve disputes over possible violations by the five parties. DOE added that in agreeing to the settlements, the five did not admit any violations or non-compliance with its regulations. It said it would receive written comments on the settlements before making it final.
The Bank of England said it provided the market with unspecified late assistance worth 15 mln stg. It has given the market total assistance of 228 mln stg today compared with a liquidity shortage it estimated at a revised 300 mln stg.
The number of Spanish registered unemployed rose by 15,608 to 2.98 mln or 21.5 pct of the workforce in January in the sixth consecutive monthly increase, the Labour Ministry said. Registered unemployed totalled 2.81 mln or 21.1 pct of the workforce in February 1986.
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 224 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 850 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 800 mln. The central bank bought bank bills comprising 27 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 21 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 171 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. It also purchased three mln stg of treasury bills and two mln stg of local authority bills in band three at 9-3/4 pct.
Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish, and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japan takes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Paris accord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here. "The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of 150.00 yen and to fall even below that level," a senior dealer at one leading bank said. The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable at around 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at a meeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability. Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term, but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewed inflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S. Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit. Dealers generally doubted whether any economic package Japan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce its trade surplus significantly, and said such measures would probably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar. Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package of measures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boost domestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus. But debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed imposition of a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, the dealers said. If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure on the dollar, they said. The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changed since before the Paris accord, they added. "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due to a still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debt crisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension of interest payments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of the Reagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra arms scandal," said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank. "There is a possibility that the dollar may decline to around 140.00 yen by the end of this year," said Chemical Bank Tokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi. But operators find it hard to push the dollar either way for fear of possible concerted central bank intervention. Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S. Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask for quotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollar when it rose to 1.87 marks. The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in London when it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said. But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of central bank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's decline because many dealers are likely to await such dollar buying intervention as a chance to sell dollars. However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branch assistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The dollar will not show drastic movement at least to the end of March." Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see any strong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their books for the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollar would give Japanese institutional investors paper losses on their foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest in purchases of U.S. Treasury securities. U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making any comments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said.
Syria will hold a buying tender on April 8 for 36,000 tonnes of white sugar for shipment in June, July and August at a rate of 12,000 tonnes a month, traders said.
Indonesia has imported 12,000 tonnes of refined sugar from Cuba to meet consumer demand in the province of South Sulawesi, the head of the provincial food agency said. The imported sugar was needed because two of three sugar refineries in the province have been temporarily shut down. It arrived in the provincial capital of Ujungpandang today and will be distributed to markets in the province, the food agency official said. Indonesia used to be a sugar exporter but last year it imported 162,500 tonnes of sugar from Thailand, Angola and Brazil to bolster its depleted stocks. Indonesia's sugar cane production last year was expected to rise significantly but domestic sugar consumption has soared because of rising demand by the food processing industry, the head of the food logistics agency, Bustanil Arifin, has said. The government has forecast that sugar production in calendar 1987 would increase 30.2 pct to 2.59 mln tonnes from 1.99 mln in 1986 but industry sources doubt whether the target could be met due to persistent post-harvest handling and transport problems.
U.K. Unemployment fell a record provisional, seasonally-adjusted 64,300 in May to a total 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, the Employment Department said. In April, seasonally-adjusted unemployment fell by an upwardly revised 21,600 to 3.02 mln or 10.9 pct, it said. The unadjusted jobless total in May, including school leavers, alos fell a record 121,000 to 2.99 mln or 10.8 pct from April's 3.11 mln, 11.2 pct. May was the eleventh successive decline from a peak last summer of 11.6 pct, the Employment Department said. "Unemployment has fallen to under three mln for the first time in over three years. The May fall of 64,000 was the largest drop since records were first kept (in 1948)," Employment Minister Norman Fowler said. All regions have seen above average falls in long term unemployment during the past year, he added. The last time the adjusted total of unemployed was below three mln was July 1984, while the unadjusted total was last below this level in June 1983.
The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers to help ease tight conditions in the money market. The bank estimated today's liquidity shortage at about 1.10 billion stg. Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 1.21 billion stg from the system while a rise in the note circulation and below target bankers' balances would take out 265 mln and 180 mln respectively, the bank said. Against this, exchequer transactions would add a net 535 mln stg.
Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. The economists said the service sector should grow as the government stimulates domestic demand under its program to transform the economy away from exports. Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower than those of other industrialised nations, methods for calculating statistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned. "The three pct figure could translate into a relatively high figure if European methods were used," one economist said. More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from a year earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo's Tsukihara said.
The British Petroleum Co PLC (BP.L) oil refinery at Grangemouth, closed after an explosion and fire eight days ago, is expected to partially reopen next week, a refinery spokesman said. He said the entire 178,500 bpd refinery has been shut since the accident which killed one person and damaged the site's hydrocracker. The main units will resume operation next week but the hydrocracker will be closed for an unspecified period. The spokesman said the refinery had been operating at about half its capacity since end-January due to overhaul work on part of the complex. The overhaul is expected to end by late April.
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer reiterated the kingdom's commitment to last December's OPEC accord to boost world oil prices and stabilise the market, the official Saudi Press Agency SPA said. Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free market oil prices, Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the ... Accord and it will never sell its oil at prices below the pronounced prices under any circumstance." Nazer, quoted by SPA, said recent pressure on free market prices "may be because of the end of the (northern hemisphere) winter season and the glut in the market." Saudi Arabia was a main architect of the December accord, under which OPEC agreed to lower its total output ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) and return to fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. The agreement followed a year of turmoil on oil markets, which saw prices slump briefly to under 10 dlrs a barrel in mid-1986 from about 30 dlrs in late 1985. Free market prices are currently just over 16 dlrs. Nazer was quoted by the SPA as saying Saudi Arabia's adherence to the accord was shown clearly in the oil market. He said contacts among members of OPEC showed they all wanted to stick to the accord. In Jamaica, OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman, who is also Nigerian Oil Minister, said the group planned to stick with the pricing agreement. "We are aware of the negative forces trying to manipulate the operations of the market, but we are satisfied that the fundamentals exist for stable market conditions," he said. Kuwait's Oil Minister, Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah, said in remarks published in the emirate's daily Al-Qabas there were no plans for an emergency OPEC meeting to review prices. Traders and analysts in international oil markets estimate OPEC is producing up to one mln bpd above the 15.8 mln ceiling. They named Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, along with the much smaller producer Ecuador, among those producing above quota. Sheikh Ali denied that Kuwait was over-producing.
Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Is expected to nearly double to 80 mln U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1987 and rise to 400 mln dlrs a year by 1991, a five-year forecast by the Economic Ministry showed. Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Last year totalled 46 mln dlrs, the ministry document said. The investment was mainly in electronics, trading, food and service industries. Lee Ming-Yi, deputy director of the ministry's Industrial Development and Investment Centre, said the forecast rise is due to planned government incentives and growing willingness among Taiwanese to invest abroad. Lee told Reuters the incentives, to be introduced in May or June, include bank loans and a reduction in capitalisation requirements for businesses seeking to invest in the U.S. To 10 mln Taiwan dlrs from 20 mln. He said the moves to encourage investment in the U.S. Are part of Taiwan's efforts to cut its trade surplus with Washington, which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986 from 1985's 10.2 billion. Taiwanese manufacturers can create jobs for Americans and avoid import quotas if they set up plants in the U.S., He added.
The Turkish ore/bulk/oil vessel Obo Engin, 78,078 tonnes dwt, had an explosion in its boiler yesterday, Lloyds shipping Intelligence Service reported. The vessel has retained some power and yesterday evening was in position Lat. 25 57 N., Long. 75 06 W. It is diverting to Jacksonville, Florida, with its cargo of 58,000 tons of coal. The vessel was bound for Iskenderun, Turkey from Lake Charles.
Sugar beet planting in Denmark is about two weeks behind normal due to a severe winter and a wet spring, a spokesman for the country's largest sugar beet concern, De Danske Sukkerfabrikker A/S, said. The weather has improved recently but very little beet has been drilled so far. "If good weather conditions continue, I think we will be sowing next week or the following week," the spokesman said.
The House Banking Committee adopted legislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to begin negotiations aimed at seeking regular adjustment of exchange rates by countries such as Taiwan and South Korea whose currencies are pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar. The measure was adopted as part of a wide-ranging trade bill that will be considered by the full House in April before it moves onto the Senate. The bill's many provisions also set as a priority for the U.S. the negotiation of stable exchange rates and urge government intervention as necessary to offset fluctuations.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 338,000 in the week ended March 28 from 355,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,436,000 in the week ended March 21, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was down from 2,480,000 the previous week.
Asian countries are offering better oil exploration concessions to avert damaging shortfalls due to last year's oil price slump, the United Nations said. The Bangkok-based U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific said in its annual report that the price fall substantially cut exploration by foreign oil firms, which found it unprofitable to maintain investments in the region. Oil production investment in Indonesia fell to about 2.8 billion dlrs in 1985 from 3.2 billion in 1983 and was estimated to have declined six pct last year. There were 11 wells drilled in Thailand in 1986 against 64 in 1985. The report said Thai Shell Exploration and Production Co Ltd>, a unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group> announced a 30 pct cut in exploration and production spending last year. To counter declining output, India and Malaysia reduced petroleum sharing demands, while Indonesia cut taxes. Nepal offered a guaranteed income share of up to 87.5 pct to cover exploration costs, while Thailand began decreasing its 12.5 pct royalty payments. The big losers were major regional exporters such as Indonesia, Brunei, China, Malaysia and Iran. Their aggregate oil income fell an estimated 20 billion dlrs in 1986 from 40 billion the previous year. Indonesia's export earnings fell by nearly half in 1986 from 11.6 billion dlrs in 1985, the U.N. Report said. Iran also lost about six billion dlrs, Brunei 3.8 billion, China three billion and Malaysia 0.8 billion. However, Asian importers saved between eight and nine billion dlrs during 1985 and 1986, which considerably eased their balance of payments. South Korea, the Philippines, India, Thailand and Pakistan were major beneficiaries, with Thailand and Pakistan respectively saving about 875 mln and 435 mln dlrs last year.
The complex task of wielding control over monetary policy in an increasingly fast-moving global economy could be aided by tying policy to commodity prices, the newest member of the Federal Reserve Board says. Commodity prices are already considered by the Fed in the making of monetary policy. But they would be given a much greater role under an idea being floated by Governor Robert Heller, who joined the board last August. He conceeds that much more study of the idea is needed, but argues that such an arrangement, particularly if it were adopted by other major industrial countries, could reduce the volatility of exchange rates. Moreover, it could help stabilize of the prices of commodities themselves, slowing changes in inflation. His idea, which many conservative economists find appealing, has some backing among board members appointed in recent years by President Reagan. It would complement the present system of opening or closing the monetary screws based on the pattern of inflation, key indicators such as unemployment, and the rise or fall of the money supply. Changes in the money supply can lead to changes in interest rates and affect economic activity directly. Discussed on and off for a long time, the commodity concept is part of a growing search for a system that anchors monetary policy and widely-fluxtuating currency prices to a more solid base. "What is needed is an anchor or reference point that can serve as a guide for both domestic and international monetary purposes," says Heller. In the past, this anchor was gold but the United States went off the gold standard because the global economy had vastly outstripped gold supplies. A return to the gold standard is generally dismissed out of hand by most policymakers on the grounds that the largest producers of gold are the Soviet Union and South Africa. The so-called fixed rate system, scuttled in the early 1970s, is still considered unworkable in the present world. But the current system of floating currencies in which currencies can fluxtuate widely, adding vast pressures to the monetary system, is also being widely questioned. Some have suggested that the system might benefit from a formal approach that mandates intervention by countries when currencies wander above or below agreed to levels but there are major problems with this also. For one thing, there is justifiable concern that countries might be relunctant to intervene if they felt it might be detrimental to their own domestic economy. Moreover, some question whether concerted intervention can make much of an inpact if the overall market does not agree with the fundamental judgement. The poorest countries have called for a monetary conference to work out a new system that, not surprisingly, helps them cope with their overpowering debt problems. Treasury Secretary James Baker, the Reagan administration's chief economic architect, has preferred to use the so-called Group of Five industrial countries or sometimes, Seven, as a forum to work out cooperative agreements on currency and other economic matters. He appears convinced that officials from West Germany, France, Britain, Japan, Italy and Canada talking quietly behind closed doors can reached reasoned decisions away from public posturing. The Heller approach, while extremely complex, could have a profound impact on the system, ideally stabalizing prices and international exchange rates. As envisioned by Heller, a basket of say, 30 major commodities ranging from wheat to oil, would be put together and prices would be measured on a regular basis. "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, montary policy might be eased," he says. He notes that commodity prices are traded daily in auction markets, and a commodity price index can be calculated on a virtually continuous basis. Moreover, most commodity prices are produced, consumed and traded on a world-wide basis, so "that an index has a relevance for the entire world," he says. In addition, commodity prices are at the beginning of the production chain and serve as an imput into virtually all production processes. "Focusing on commodity prices as an early and sensitive indicator of current and perhaps also future prices pressures, the monetary authorities may take such an index into account in making their monetary policy decisions," he says. However, he says that any major change in a basic commodity such as occurred in oil during the 1970s because of action by the OPEC cartel, would have to be discounted in such a system. He says the worst thing that could happen is to allow monetary policy to spread a freakish increase in one commodity to the rest of the system and to other commodities.
Taiwan's unemployment rate fell to 2.03 pct of the labour force in March from 2.37 pct in February and 2.79 pct in March 1986, the government statistics department said. A department official said the decline was due to rising employment in the manufacturing sector, including textiles and footwear. The unemployed totalled 163,000 in March against 193,000 in February and 216,000 in March 1986. The labour force fell to 8.03 mln in March from 8.14 mln in February and 7.74 mln in March 1986, it said.
Japanese customers have bought nearly six mln barrels of crude oil from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) at a substantial discount to the official price, and Western traders have received even larger discounts, Japanese traders involved in the transactions told Reuters. NIOC has sold its crude for March shipment to Japanese customers with different formulas. One company has bought 800,000 barrels of Iranian Heavy at a straight discount of 30-35 cents below the official price, the sources said. Other deals have been fixed with prices linked to Oman and Dubai spot prices less a discount, they said. Iran's discounted sales have not, however, managed to reverse the bullish tone in the crude oil and products spot markets, oil traders said. Market sentiment is being influenced more by the colder weather in Europe, and reports that OPEC's February output was below its self-imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day. Firmer gas oil on the London futures, and more bullish sentiment on the New York Mercantile Exchange futures market are supporting spot price levels, they said. Another Japanese trading house has paid the official price but through a processing arrangement will effectively receive a discount, the sources said. "It's just disguised cheating," one Japanese trader said. The sources said only one Japanese company had paid the official price for Iranian oil. It has purchased 1.5 mln barrels of Iranian Heavy for April shipment for refining in Singapore. They said about nine VLCCs of Iranian crude have been sold to Western traders with pricing based 60 pct on the official price and 40 pct on spot prices, or with part of the price related to processing arrangements.
Trade house sources said China is expected to step up its sugar purchases following yesterday's steep drop in world sugar prices. The consensus is that the Chinese will buy between 200,000 and 400,000 tonnes of raw sugar. "China is short of foreign exchange and a drop in prices is usually taken as a buying opportunity by Peking," one trader said. Yesterday, prices on the New York world sugar market plummeted by 0.58 to 0.50 cent on heavy liquidation by speculators, disenchanted over the market's lack of rallying power. Speculation is that China will need the sugar for the May/July period.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted Congress will pass a reasonable trade bill this year and said tough protectionist legislation could prompt a trade war. "The mood of the Congress right now is as tough on trade as I've ever seen it in six years in Washington," Baldrige said in a television interview. "I think we'll still be able to get a reasonable trade bill out in spite of that because the whole Congress is trying to work together with the administration, but there is a hardening trade attitude," he said. President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation, but agreed to support a trade bill when it became apparent that opposition Democrats would pass such legislation. However, Baldrige warned measures that would penalise trading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan for failing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. Could lead to retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto any such bill. When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide trade war, Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any question about that."
up to 300 people were feared dead and more than 15,000 people left homeless by thursday's earthquake, which will cost Ecuador close to 800 mln dlrs in lost petroleum revenues, authorities said. They estimated the cost of repairing a damaged oil pipeline at 150 mln dlrs. "the magnitude of the damages caused by the earthquake is gigantic," president leon febres cordero said after inspecting the damages in napo, the hardest-hit jungle province, 100 miles from here. The quake damaged 40 km of an oil pipeline, forcing this opec nation to suspend crude exports for four months, president febres cordero said in a statement issued today by the presidential press office. The country would lose an estimated 800 mln dlrs in crude exports until the pipeline was repaired, the president said. It would cost 150 mln dlrs to repair the pipelline which carries oil from jungle oil fields over the andes to Balao, a pacific ocean port. Crude traditionally accounts for up to two-thirds of ecuador's exports. the quake triggered landslides, swelling the aguarico river which burst it banks carrying away homes and huts in napo province, health minister jorge brancho told reuters. "we fear that up to 300 people died in napo though there is no way of now knowing the exact figure because many people have disappeared," he said. Other estimates ranged as high as 500 dead. So far 20 corpses have been recovered, bracho said. Information Minister Marco Lara told reporters: "the number of dead and injured is not known ... because we do not know how many people lived in the homes hit by the landslides." Bracho said at least 15,000 were left homeless in the cayambe district.
Member states of the European Community are starting to run out of patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to open its market to imports, but as often made only minor moves. Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness, or at least the ability, of the Japanese government to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC. However, they said an all-out trade war may be far off, as EC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan. Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17. The EC tariffs, which would involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body GATT, would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March, up from 1.94 billion in February.
A total 59,000 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 45.678 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at today's European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said. Out of this, traders in West Germany received 34,750 tonnes, in the U.K. 13,000, in Denmark 7,250 and in France 4,000 tonnes, it added. Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Aug to be more than 45.00 Ecus per 100 kilos but Paris traders were more precise by forecasting a rebate level of 45.75 to 46.0 Ecus. London traders were also reluctant earlier to predict the likely tonnage to be authorised for export in view of the on-going dispute between the Commission and European producers over the threatened action by the producers to move over 800,000 tonnes to intervention. Last week saw 60,500 tonnes whites athuorised for export at a maximum rebate of 44.819 Ecus per 100 kilos.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige praised South Korea's new surplus-cutting trade policies but warned of possible protectionist retaliation if Seoul's market liberalisation efforts falter or fail. In a press conference after talks with South Korean leaders, Baldrige called the government's announced intention to regulate exports and boost imports "a very, very important step, the right direction for the Korean government to take." The government adopted the new policies last week in the hope of heading off a trade war with the U.S. Baldrige said the policies "showed an understanding of the fact that this country cannot go on indefinitely growing by exports alone." "There has to be enough of a change so that domestic growth begins to take more of the load," he said. South Korea had a 7.2 billion dlr trade surplus with Washington in 1986, thanks largely to booming sales of cars and consumer electronic goods. It racked up another 1.4 billion dlrs in surplus in the first quarter of this year. Baldrige said Seoul's package of measures was "broad enough and comprehensive enough so that ... Actions can be taken for liberalising imports (and) increasing the domestic economy, if the government is willing to follow through." "We will be watching the implementation of this new policy direction very closely," he said. "Because of the protectionism growing in the U.S., We see a real problem if Korea does not keep on the same path ... Of steadily increasing liberalisation.... If that should falter or fail or turn backward, I'm as sure as I'm standing here that we'd see protectionist movement in the U.S." Baldrige said he and South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae spent much time discussing trade problems in specific product categories. These included service industries, which he said were still too much of a closed sector in South Korea, and computers and cars. Baldrige said he urged speedy action on removing the tariffs and taxes on imported U.S. Cars which can make them sell for up to three times their American prices. "We want to stop that. With this sort of thing, there's going to be trouble somewhere down the road," he said. "We are just pointing this out." Asked if Seoul's measures could succeed without a revaluation of the won, which Washington has been urging for months, Baldrige declined to comment. "We don't have any target for any particular currency, but we do feel that currencies around the world, if we are going to be successful as a world economy, have to reflect the fundamentals of the various economies involved," he said. Baldrige said he had agreed to Rha's proposal for cooperation on forming U.S.-South Korean joint ventures in third countries. The American government would be pleased to encourage U.S. Firms to get involved, he added. Commenting on President Reagan's decision to increase tariffs on certain Japanese imports to the U.S., Baldrige said Washington's trade problems with Japan were not comparable to its difficulties with South Korea. "I think the attitude in Korea is both reasonable and fair," he said. "It's a firm attitude. We don't get anything for nothing or just by asking for it. "But our negotiations are friendly and reasonable and they usually end up with something good happening at the end that both countries live up to."
Brazil's state oil company Petrobras is pledging to export 4.6 mln cubic meters of fuel, or 28.9 mln barrels in 1987, a company spokesman said. He said that represents a total sale worth 600 mln dlrs. The volume is 27 pct higher over 1986 sales, which totalled 3.6 mln cubic meters, or 22.6 mln barrels. The United States, Africa and Latin American are Brazil's main fuel buyers, the spokesman said.
Turkey is holding a buying tender for 100,000 tonnes of white sugar on March 24, traders here said. The sugar is being sought for early arrival and will probably be met with April/May shipment sugar, they added. Earlier today newspapers in Turkey carried an advertisement from Turkish Sugar Factories inviting offers of 100,000 tonnes of crystal sugar with a 50 pct option to increase or decrease the amount. Over the 1983/85 period Turkey each year has exported between 240,000 and 350,000 tonnes of whites to Iran and between 62,000 and 230,000 tonnes to Iraq. Following lower sugar crops in the past two years analysts said Turkey needs to import sugar now if it is to continue filling these export contracts, and may need to buy more. Last month London broker C Czarnikow estimated Turkish 1986/87 production at 1.42 mln tonnes raw value against 1.4 mln in 1985/86 and an average 1.76 mln in the previous three seasons. The semi-official Anatolian Agency recently quoted Turkish Minister of Industry and Trade Cahit Aral as saying Turkey would export 100,000 tonnes of sugar this year and import the same amount.
Belgian unemployment, based on the number of jobless drawing unemployment benefit, fell to 11.8 pct of the working population at the end of March from 12.1 pct at end of February, the National Statistics Office said. The rate compares with 12.0 pct at the end of March, 1986. The total number of jobless stood at 495,208, compared with 508,392 in February and 504,652 in March last year.
India has called a fresh buying tender for up to four 13,000 tonne cargoes of white sugar on March 11, traders here said. The tender calls for one cargo of prompt sugar and two to three with March/April shipment sugar, or the same as the eight cargoes bought at a tender two days ago. That tender originally only sought two to three cargoes but resulted in the sale of eight. India also granted the sellers options to sell twice that amount at the same price but for April/May shipment. Depending on prices, traders said it would be likely for India again to buy more than the tonnage formally sought.
New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 341,000 in the week ended March 14 from 340,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,454,000 in the week ended March 7, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,507,000 the previous week.
France's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 11.1 pct of the workforce at end-March compared with 11 pct at end-February, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE) said. The total number of unemployed edged up to 2.67 mln at end-March from 2.65 mln at end-February, an INSEE spokeswoman said.
Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 7.35 mln barrels in the week ended March 13 to 112.74 mln barrels from a revised 120.09 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said. In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks fell 2.89 mln barrels to 248.44 mln barrels from a revised 251.33 mln, and crude oil stocks dropped 4.39 mln barrels to 325.13 mln from a revised 329.52 mln. It said residual fuel stocks fell 250,000 barrels to 35.73 mln from 35.98 mln barrels. API said refinery runs in the week rose to 11.80 mln barrels per day (bpd) from a revised 11.70 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 75.7 pct, up from a revised 75.0 pct. Crude oil imports in the week rose to 3.66 mln bpd from a revised 2.67 mln, API added.
New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in February rose to six vessels totalling 329,999 gross tons from three ships of 79,499 tons in January, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a year earlier, an association official said. The backlog of orders at end-February was 157 ships of 4.41 mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month earlier and 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an association official said.
The West German-registered motor vessel Stefan E. Sank off the West African coast early today and one of its eight crew members was killed, a Spanish navy spokesman said. He said the captain of the Singapore-registered tanker Nord Pacific reported in a radio message that he had picked up the remaining seven crewmen of the 2,223 tonnes dw Stefan E., Together with the body of the dead man.
The Port of Singapore Authority (PSA) will spend 1.2 billion dlrs to develop port facilities and cargo-handling equipment over the next five years, Communications Minister Yeo Ning Hong told parliament. Yeo said the improvements were needed to cope with an expected growth of ship tonnage and cargo handled by the port, but gave no further details. The PSA handled 529 mln gross-registered tonnes of cargo in 1985, according to the latest available statistics from the port authority.
Thailand's sugarcane output will fall to about 23.55 mln tonnes in the 1986/87 (November-October) season from 24.09 mln in 1985/86, the Agriculture Ministry said. It said a January survey put the total area under sugarcane at 545,528 hectares, down from 556,860 hectares the previous year. The national average yield is expected to fall to 43.17 tonnes/hectare from 43.22 tonnes in 1985/86, it said.
An accord is in sight in Brazil's 20-day-old national seamen's strike, which has seriously delayed exports, a union official said. The official, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, said up to 30,000 of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were still on strike. He said the others had returned to work over the last week, accepting pay offers of 120 pct from four private companies and from the Frota Nacional de Petroleiros (Fronape), part of the state-owned oil company Petrobras. The association grouping private shipowners, Syndarma, has also offered 120 pct but talks have so far been deadlocked over payment for overtime. The union official said he believed this issue would be resolved shortly.
Sugar beet plantings are almost complete in southern West Germany but are lagging behind in other regions, trade sources said. In the west of the country, about 60 pct of the plantings were completed, while in the north only 40 pct of the sugar beet area has been sown, they said. The weather is forecast to stay mild in northern West Germany in the coming days and more planting progress is expected there, they said. This year's area sown to sugar beets is likely to fall to 38,500 hectares from around 40,000 last year.
THE BANK OF KOREA SAID IT FIXED THE MIDRATE OF THE WON AT 844.30 TO THE DOLLAR, ITS HIGHEST LEVEL SINCE FEBRUARY 26, 1985, WHEN IT WAS 843.90. THE WON WAS SET at 845.50 YESTERDAY. THE WON HAS RISEN 2.03 PCT AGAINST THE DOLLAR SO FAR THIS YEAR, AFTER RISING 3.34 PCT IN 1986.
The Japanese ambassador to the U.S. Suggested that Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone make efforts to present "advanced' proposals on trade issues when he visits Washington next month. Ambassador Nobuo Matsunaga made the recommendation at a meeting with Nakasone, Kyodo News Service said. Matsunaga also advised that the prime minister should be prepared to discuss U.S.-Japan economic issues. Matsunaga cited issues such as a U.S.-Japan micro chip trade pact, foreign access to the Kansai international airport project, and a new international telecommunications firm. Matsunaga returned on Sunday to report to Japanese leaders on recent U.S. Developments over trade, in preparation for Nakasone's visit to Washington, April 29 to May 5. Kyodo quoted Nakasone as telling reporters after meeting the envoy, "I entirely accept what ambassador Matsunaga recommended." Nakasone did not elaborate. The U.S.-Japan trade dispute intensified last week when President Ronald Reagan said the U.S. Would impose heavy tariffs on Japanese imports in retaliation against alleged Japanese breach of the computer chip trade pact. Meanwhile, Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) is to consider measures to boost imports and open up the Japanese market, such as government purchase of supercomputers and expanding foreign access to the Kansai airport project, party sources said. The LDP international economic affairs council was responding to Nakasone's request for measures to reduce Japan's increasing trade surpluses with the U.S. And Europe, they said.
Five regional oil producing nations will gather in Caracas tommorrow for a two-day meeting expected to center on ways to combat proposals for a U.S. tax on imported petroleum, the Venezuela's ministry of energy and mines said. Oil ministers from Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Ecuador and Venezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the informal group of Latin American and Caribbean Petroleum Exporters, formed in 1983, it said. Colombia will also attend for the first time, as an observer nation, the ministry said. Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said the conference has no set agenda but one entire session Friday will be devoted to proposals for a tax on imported oil. Two of the group's members, Venezuela and Mexico, are second and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the United States, respectively, following Canada. Venezuela, concerned about the effect such a tax would have on its exports, undertook a diplomatic push to coordinate strategy against such measures. In February, Canadian Energy Minister Marcel Masse was invited to Caracas for talks with Hernandez on proposals for an oil import tax.
Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.0 pct in January, the worst since the Government started compiling unemployment statistics under its current system in 1953, up from the previous record 2.9 pct in December, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted January unemployment totalled 1.82 mln people, up from 1.61 mln in December and 1.65 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in January remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-worst level set last December. Record male unemployement of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment in January remained at 3.0 pct, equal to the record level marked in April, August, September and December last year. January's record 3.0 pct unemployment rate mainly stemmed from loss of jobs in manufacturing industries, particularly in export-related firms, due to the yen's continuing appreciation against the dollar, officials said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 380,000 from a year earlier to 14.30 mln including 1.83 mln employed in the textile industry, down 190,000 from a year earlier, and 1.06 mln in transport industries such as carmakers and shipbuilders, down 170,000.
The United States will likely impose sanctions soon on imports of Japanese microchips, senators said today after a private meeting with Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige. Although the senators said Baldrige told them no decision would be taken until a final determination is made on whether Japanese microchips were dumped in the United States, they said they were virtually sure Japan would face penalties. President Reagan's trade policy advisory group, of which Baldrige is a member, will meet on the issue Wednesday. "I am confident we will see action taken," Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican, told reporters. "I am expecting sanctions at least, and even more than sanctions," Sen. Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican, said. The senators, several congressmen and U.S. semiconductor industry representatives met with Baldrige and State Department officials to discuss Japan's alleged violations of a September 1986 agreement to stop dumping its microchips in the United States and other countries. They recommended Japanese firms be penalized through tariffs or import duties over the next six to 12 months for continuing to dump microchips. The violations were worth 100 mln dls to the Japanese semiconductor industry, they said. Asked if Baldrige intended to recommend sanctions, Sen. Pete Wilson told reporters, "The clear import of what he said is that there will be." "Japan can't just say they will comply. We think sanctions must be applied," for past violations of the agreement, the California Republican said. The semiconductor industry produces microprocessor chips which are used in high technology products ranging from radios to defence missile guidance systems. Sen. James McClure, an Idaho Republican, said Baldrige told them the administration had not made a final determination that Japanese companies had dumped semiconductor microchips below the cost of production in the United States or other countries. But McClure said senators told him, "There is no doubt dumping is going on," based on evidence such as invoices of purchases of the Japanese products. The two countries signed a pact last September in which Japan agreed to stop selling its microchips in the United States and other countries below production costs and to allow the U.S. semiconductor industry access to the Japanese market. In return, the United States waived its right to impose import duties on the Japanese microchips. Japanese officials have said they have lived up to the pact and have asked Japanese chip-makers to further slash output to save the pact. Japan has frequently been the target of congressional discouragement over last year's record 169-billion-dlr trade deficit. Tokyo had a 59-billion-dlr surplus with the United States last year and had large surpluses with other countries. The Senate yesterday unanimously passed a resolution calling for action against Japan for violations of the pact since September. The resolution will be introduced in the House next week by Rep. Bob Matsui, a California Democrat.
Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 27 to 2.424 billion dlrs from 2.508 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 9.706 billion dlrs from 10.786 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 12.131 billion dlrs on March 27 compared with 13.283 billion dlrs on March 26.
Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp X>, said it raised the contract price it pays for three grades of crude oil, effective March 6. Illinois Sweet and Indiana Sweet are both being raised 50 cts a barrel to 16.75 dlrs/bbl, and the Southern Michigan grade is being raised 25 cts/bbl, also to 16.75 dlrs a bbl. The West Texas Intermediate grade was unchanged.
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said the United States will continue its policy of subsidizing farm exports to regain lost markets until there is a global agreement to end such subsidies. In an interview with Reuters, Lyng also acknowledged he was troubled by the prospect that the export enhancement program (EEP) could prove so indispensable to boosting U.S. exports that the U.S. would have difficulty abandoning it. "Yes, I'm troubled with that a little bit," he said. "There's no question about it, the longer you feed the calf on the cow, the longer it is to wean it." In recent months, USDA has offered subsidies on a growing list of commodities to an increasing number of countries. Lyng called U.S. and European Community export subsidies "just plain nonsensical as a long-term policy" and said he saw an end to the expansion of the EEP. "I'm sure there's an end to the expansion, but we are doing this to accomplish our goal which is to regain the markets that we've lost, to keep our products competitive and to let those, particularly the European Community, who, we are convinced, are the worst offenders in terms of the export subsidization, that we are prepared to continue to do this until we can come to some agreement to put an end to it," he said.
Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said. The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of Bandar Abbas and scored a hit. "These missiles pack a fairly big punch," he told Reuters. "There is no doubt they could be used to target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz."
China's trade deficit in January fell to 310 mln dlrs from 460 mln in January 1986, the China Daily Business Weekly said. Quoting customs figures, the paper said exports fell to 1.75 billion dlrs from 1.84 billion and imports fell to 2.06 billion from 2.3 billion.
Attempts to hold currency rates rigidly within tight ranges through European Monetary System intramarginal intervention can be counterproductive, bringing funds into the stronger currency from the weaker at rates still considered fairly favourable, the Bundesbank said. "The movements thus sparked can actually promote the weaker tendency of a currency, requiring still larger obligatory intervention when rates hit band limits," it said in its 1986 annual report. The other danger was that money supply expansion could be caused in the stronger currency nation without its central bank being involved in the activity. "For this reason, currency levels should be allowed as much room for manoeuvre as possible inside the band limits when a currency is in a phase of weakness," the Bundesbank said. "In addition, speculative positions are made more expensive to hold when interest differentials are increased." In the report, the Bundesbank gave a rare glimpse of the extent of intramarginal and obligatory EMS intervention that has taken place since the foundation of the eight-currency system on March 13, 1979. Obligatory intervention is that required by EMS central banks when a currency reaches its agreed limit against another participating unit. Intramarginal intervention is undertaken on agreement between central banks when speculative pressure moves a currency in an unwanted direction, although it may not yet be near any allowed EMS limits. At the start of this year, central banks were very actively selling marks and supporting weaker currencies, primarily the French franc, as speculative EMS pressure grew. But the announcement by the Bank of France that it was ceasing intramarginal intervention sent the franc straight to its then-permitted floor of 31.8850 marks per 100. Data in the Bundesbank report showed the EMS central banks bought a net total 29.9 billion marks after the April 6, 1986 realignment until the selling petered out on July 7. But this was far outweighed by net purchases between July 8, 1986, and the realignment on January 12 this year totalling 63.0 billion marks - 44.1 billion of which was intramarginal and 18.9 billion was obligatory intervention. The data showed that 17.4 billion marks of the total eventually filtered into the West German monetary system. Since the latest realignment, central banks have bought 16.1 billion marks in intramarginal intervention, the Bundesbank said, without naming the banks involved. Only very high activity after the March 21, 1983 realignment came close to matching moves up to last January. Then, central banks bought a massive 61.6 billion marks in the period up to July 1985, mainly to stabilise the EMS as the dollar surged. This then turned into mark sales of a net 34.0 billion from July 11, 1985 in the run-up to the April 1986 realignment.
French unemployment rose to a record seasonally adjusted 2.65 mln in February from 2.61 mln in January and 2.57 mln at the end of last year, the Labour Ministry said. The rise took the percentage of the workforce out of a job to 11.0 pct last month from 10.9 pct in January and 10.7 pct at the end of 1986. In unadjusted terms unemployment fell by around 30,000 last month to 2.70 mln.
Earthquake-stricken Ecuador is negotiating with Nigeria to have the African country lend it 10,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude for export, Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told Reuters. He said Ecuador was negotiating a shipments schedule and the terms of repaying the loan. Ecuador has suspended crude exports for about five months until it repairs a pipeline ruputured by a March five tremor. Santos Alvite added Ecuador is finalizing details for a program under which Venezuela would temporarily lend the country 50,000 bpd for export.
The most likely reason for West German producers withdrawing white sugar from intervention stores is that they already have, or are reasonably certain of, obtaining European Community (EC) export licences for it, traders said. They were responding to EC Commission sources in Brussels saying West German producers have withdrawn most of the 79,250 tonnes of the sugar they put into intervention on April 1. The traders said it is also likely that French producers, who put over 700,000 tonnes into intervention, will withdraw a significant proportion of this for the same reason before they are due to accept payment for the sugar in early May. Earlier this week traders said the stepping up of the level of export licences being granted by the EC at recent tenders, with generous subsidies, had been due to producer threats to leave the sugar in intervention and to a desire to move most of the old crop sugar before the new crop tenders start in May. The EC has so far granted licences for 2,467,970 tonnes out of around 3.1 mln tonnes targetted for export in the 1986/87 series of tenders. This would indicate the likelihood of high tonnages continuing to be moved over the next few tenders and subsidies also remaining high in order to attract producer bids for the export licences, traders said.
Ecuador is due to resume limited crude oil output on May 8 when a new 43 km pipeline to neighbouring Colombia should be finished, an energy ministry spokesman said. Oil output was halted on March 5 by an earthquake which damaged 50 km of the main pipeline linking jungle oilfields at Lago Agrio to the Ecuadorean port of Balao on the Pacific. About 13 km of the new link, capable of carrying some 50,000 barrels per day (bpd), has been built, he said. Ecuador pumped 245,000 to 250,000 bpd before the earthquake. The new link will connect Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon in Colombia, the starting point of Columbia's pipeline to the Pacific ocean port of Temuco. The government estimates it will take about four more months to repair the Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline and return output to normal levels, the spokesman said.
Iraq said its warplanes attacked two large naval targets -- Baghdad's usual term for oil tankers or merchant ships -- in the Gulf today. A military spokesman said the planes scored accurate and effective hits in both attacks. There was no immediate confirmation of the raids from independent shipping sources in the region. The spokesman said during one of the attacks, Iraqi planes intercepted an Iranian F-4 Phantom and shot it down. All Iraqi warplanes returned safely to base, he added.
Liner shipping specialist Evergreen Marine Corp>, Taiwan's largest private company, has applied to the Security and Exchange Commission to go public next month, a company spokeswoman told Reuters. She said Evergreen had doubled its capital to eight billion Taiwan dlrs since last August. "The capital increase will boost our operations," she said. She said Evergreen will use the funds raised from the stock market to buy new ships and step up its global services. The spokeswoman said the company posted an after-tax profit of more than one billion dlrs last year on total revenues of 20.46 billion, compared to an after-tax profit of 1.18 billion on revenues of 17.99 billion in 1985. Evergreen has placed newbuilding orders for three 3,428-teu (twenty-foot equivalent unit) fully cellular container ships with the state-owned China Shipbuilding Corp> for delivery in late 1988. Evergreen has a fleet of 66 container vessels, totalling more than two mln dwt, the spokeswoman said.
Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy. Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved. Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not elaborate. Hata said protectionist pressures in the international economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Despite great potential, developing economies are still confronted by grave difficulties, particularly debt, he added. The basis for the talks is the GATT ministerial declaration last September in Punta del Este, Uruguay, and the subsequent trade negotiating plan agreed in Geneva. "It is essential that we first reaffirm here our commitment to implementing that plan as scheduled," Hata said. Hata added it is not constructive to speed up negotiations in some areas at the expense of others. In order to rebuild the free trade system, it is important for each participant to have domestic policies that will serve this end. As part of its contribution, Japan plans in April to fundamentally improve its generalised system of preferences for industrial and mining products to make Japan's domestic market more open to developing countries, he said.
Swedish unemployment was steady at 2.2 pct of the workforce in March compared with the previous month, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. In March 1986, the figure stood at 2.4 pct.
Cargo handling resumed at Bangladesh's Chittagong port today after 7,000 workers ended their three day walk-out triggered by a pay dispute, port officials said. Loading and unloading of 14 ships stranded by the strike started this morning and will be completed as quickly as possible, they said. The strikers returned to work after an agreement was reached last night between port authorities and the Port Workers Association, they said without giving details.
U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel said there was a one in five chance that new drilling in Alaska would find oil. "But if it's there, there's a very good chance that it would be a giant field," Hodel said on ABC's "Good Morning America." "So it is the best geological prospect that they (geologists) have talked to me about since I've been involved in this process," he said. Hodel announced yesterday that he would urge Congress to open up 1.5 mln acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil exploration despite fears of environmental damage threatening the Caribou herd in the region. He said today the exploration was needed in an effort to prevent future U.S. oil shortages and said oil drilling in the large Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska proved oil could be drilled without severely damaging the environment. He said the Caribou herd at Prudhoe Bay had tripled, contrary to concerns before the drilling operation that it would endanger the herd.
Unemployment fell in March to 36,510, or 1.7 pct of the workforce, compared with 39,700 (1.9 pct) in February and 38,839 (2.2 pct) in March 1986, the Labour Directorate said.
